跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
CE Noticias Financieras English
The odyssey experienced by an Argentinean couple fleeing Ukraine: "We woke up to the sound of the emergency siren".
805 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The couple from Rosario had been on vacation in Liev, a Ukrainian city, for two months when the Russian attacks began. Denise Garraza and Pato Bonato are travel content creators, influencers and recorded almost minute by minute their flight from the country on social networks.

"I still can't believe this," Denise vents still moved. I have a lump in my throat, an anguish that cannot be described", wrote a few hours ago on her Instagram account the Argentinean who is already safe in Denmark.

The days leading up to the escape passed normally. "We watched the news and asked the residents if we should be worried, everyone said no. In fact in the streets there were recitals going on, people were out walking their dogs, and the shops were open." The picture changed after Putin's order to attack Ukraine. "We woke up to the sounds of emergency sirens, and we panicked."

And there they began to live a real odyssey....

"We had bus tickets for February 25 in the morning. When we saw the context we fled to the terminal". From there they tried to buy a new ticket. "There was nothing, everything was sold out, we were desperate. We spent two hours looking, and we found one online to Poland".

The war is in the middle of a pandemic. To enter Poland they needed a negative PCR test. "On top of all the stress we had to find a place to do the test. Once we did we moved to another station."

Without an explanation, the bus that would take them out of Ukrainian territory did not show up at the terminal. The trip was scheduled for 4 p.m., but it never arrived. "We don't speak the language, and people were waiting to flee. It was impossible to communicate, we needed another ticket."

The anguish and uncertainty of the couple from Rosario grew, but suddenly, a man - named Ivanko - who also wanted to escape, helped them: "He spoke English, he was the translator, and he gave us the ticket. We paid the driver, and sat down. The first few minutes on the road were quick".

After a while the roads collapsed. "We were only 93 kilometers from the border. I've never seen so much traffic in my life. The queue was incalculable and drivers opted to turn off their engines. The trip that was supposed to take two hours took almost eight."

A block from the border, the worst part began. "The local forces stopped the bus. They got on and called all Ukrainian men between 18 and 60 years old to the war. They made no exceptions, they even took one man away in a cast. It was heartbreaking to watch them say goodbye to their wives and children. My boyfriend didn't have to go because he was Argentinean". The same procedure was repeated in the private cars.

The Ukrainian accompanied the influencers to take the bus, but did not make it to the neighboring country as he was drafted to fight in the war.

Safe in Poland

They crossed into Katowice, east of Krakow, after almost 24 hours of odyssey. "On the other side we already felt calm. We found a territory full of emigrants. We tried to look for accommodation but everything was occupied. There is nothing, and people keep arriving".

From Poland, Denise and Pato are on their way to Denmark. They haven't found accommodation yet, although they have some acquaintances in Copenhagen. She plans to stay for a month.

Grateful to be in a country far from the war, she makes a reflection: "Ukraine did not deserve this outcome, I hope this will end soon. In my life I lived something similar to this, it breaks my heart to think of all those people who remained in Ukraine, the men who had to go to fight without deciding, when they thought they were escaping from the war with their families, they had to say goodbye to their children, wives etc. . The number of children at the borders, mothers with sad faces with their children in their arms. Today we close our eyes and we still hear the emergency alarms. I don't want to imagine what the rest must be going through."

CONTINUE READING:

Russia's invasion of Ukraine LIVE: after a battery of measures against the Russian economy, the US will now sanction Vladimir Putin.

"Zafé de luchar por ser argentino": the minute-by-minute account of a Rosarino who left Ukraine in the midst of the attacks

"I'm not afraid of a missile, I'm from Lanús": the unexpected comment of an Argentine living in Ukraine

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220226ei2p0002v


CE Noticias Financieras English
CSKA Moscow disbanded over Russia's invasion of Ukraine
338 字
2022 年 2 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Denmark's Iffe Lundberg, Lithuania's Marius Grigonis, Ukraine's Joel Bolomboy, American Will Clyburn and Germany's Johannes Voigtmann have followed in the footsteps of Georgia's Tornike Shengelia and decided to leave CSKA Moscow "for personal reasons related to the current situation between Russia and Ukraine."

Thus, there are already six players who have decided to leave the Russian Army team -including its star- after Russia's offensive on Ukrainian territory.

CSKA itself has explained that Shengelia and Lundberg have already left the club, while "in the near future" Grigonis and Voigtmann will also leave.

Lundberg himself wrote on his personal Twitter account that he was already in Copenhagen: "Due to the current complex situation we are in, I have returned to my country, Denmark, today to safeguard the safety of my family. I hope everything will return to normal as soon as possible."

Everything was triggered after the departure of Georgian Shengelia, who on his Facebook account posted a Ukrainian flag. "I take this decision as a sign of protest against Russia's invasion of Ukraine and I do not consider it possible to continue playing for the Russian Army club," he said in a telephone interview with Georgian media commersant.ge, announcing that he would travel to Spain with his family. However, the former Baskonia player has already told CSKA that he does not want to return to the club.

Through a statement on its social networks, CSKA has informed about the situation of the players who have a contract in force and have chosen to leave the entity, so their decision may entail sanction.

"The actions of the players are a violation of the terms of their contracts and the club's regulations, but CSKA treats each of the players' personal situations with understanding. The status of the agreements with the players will be resolved when the sporting and political situation in Europe returns to normal," the Moscow side warns.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220228ei2s008wm


Press Release: Company announcement no 3/2022 - Annual Account 2021 and Interim Report Q4 2021
722 字
2022 年 2 月 28 日 13:57 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Interim Report Q4 2021

EBITDA fixed herd prices (FHP) for Q4 2021 decreased to -1.039 mEUR (Q4 2020: 486 kEUR), corresponding to an EBITDA margin FHP of

-5.1% (Q4 2020: 2.1%). The quarterly EBITDA in Q4 2021 decreased by 1.525 kEUR (compared to Q4 2020). Comparing the periods changes in sales and feed prices neutralize each other, but missing volume from Ostrov farm impact the result with roughly 1,5 mEUR.

Impact of Ostrov out of production is that Russian production only is 67% of norm normal, but we still have various capacity cost in Ostrov of 0.5 mEUR. Sales prices in Q4 were 1.00 EUR/kg live weight, up from 0.92 EUR/kg (Q4 2020). The outlook is negative in EU/Lithuania for first half of 2021. Nevertheless, pork production in Northern Europe is currently being reduced, which is expected to impact sales prices positive from mid-2022 positively.

Feed prices in Q4 2021 were 251 EUR/T (compared to 240 EUR/T Q1-Q3 2021). That prices did not increase more is due to hedging policy, as market price increases were significant higher. Looking ahead is a significant amount of grain is hedged until harvest 2022 either in storage, on fields, or contracts, reducing future increases in feed price, as raw materials as grain have been increasing. End December 2021 4.3 mEUR hedging gains are included in Group equity in other reserves, which will be released into EBITDA during next 9 months.

The herd valuation in Q4 decreased by 2,125 kEUR (compared to 30.09.2021). The decrease is driven on price pressure in EU due to over production of pork, as the export from EU to China currently is on a minimum, due to low prices in China. FY2021 the herd prices are almost unchanged with increase of 271 kEUR. Free cash flow was 6,130 kEUR in Q4 2021 (Q4 2020: -748 kEUR), due to payment of insurance sum for Ostrov.

Net interest-bearing debt (NIBD) decreased to EUR 78.5m in 2021, being EUR 9.2m lower than in 2020 (87.9 mEUR). Nevertheless, the following need to be considered EUR 4,3 from hedging transactions which will be included in EBITDA in 2022 and cost to repopulate Ostrov, which will be made in 2022. Idavang has almost four years duration with the EUR 75m bond left, hence having very stable financing.

Post Balance Sheet Events

Tensions between Russia and Ukraine increased during February, as first Russia mobilized its military on the borders, and afterward, on the 24th February, Russia entered into Ukraine. EU , USA and other countries applied sanctions on Russia twice during this period. Idavang is currently not aware of any sanctions that will directly negatively impact Russia's operations. Nevertheless, Idavang might be negatively affected with either sanction unknown to Idavang already approved or future sanctions.

Idavang did withdraw 4,1 mEUR from Russia to Denmark at the beginning of February of the intercompany loan (after approval from Nordic Trustee and Jyske Bank ). The withdrawn amount was for February/May interest on bonds and excess cash repayment on bonds after annual release. After the transfer, the management considers the short-term liquidity reserve in both Russia and Lithuania/Denmark strong. Still, it has further reserves in working capital e.g., implementing factoring in Lithuania (3 mEUR allowed in bond terms). Focus has also been on increasing operational stability, increasing inventories of everything from spare parts to feed components. Idavang Lithuania has hedged around half of the grain consumption for next harvest season (September 2022 - August 2023), limiting the impact of volatile world markets.

Further information

Bondholders - Claus Baltsersen, CEO phone +370 (685) 34 104

Media - Jytte Rosenmaj, Board Member phone +45 26 73 46 99

Attachments

   -- Company announcement no 4 IDAVANG Annual Report 2021 pdf penneo 
       https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/295fcd90-ef93-4e52-b17b-bc144494cfff [https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/295fcd90-ef93-4e52-b17b-bc144494cfff] 
 
 
   -- Company announcement no 3 2022 Q4 2021 Idavang 
       https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/9ee1d564-db93-4d34-a201-98b27a79e076 [https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/9ee1d564-db93-4d34-a201-98b27a79e076] 
 
 
   -- 5493000WVOJNMTISMP12-2021-12-31-en 
       https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/00598404-5aa9-47a3-b4cb-f89255f10f8e [https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/00598404-5aa9-47a3-b4cb-f89255f10f8e] 
 
 
                  
(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 28, 2022 08:57 ET (13:57 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220228ei2s002h9


CE Noticias Financieras English
With Russia's expulsion, can the "Danish miracle" of Euro 92 be repeated at the World Cup in Qatar?
777 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The UEFA qualifiers are in their final stage, the playoffs, the last train leading to Qatar 2022. Initially, there were 12 teams divided into three groups of four teams. The winner of each of them will earn its place in the World Cup. But the provisional suspension of Russia - as a result of the invasion and consequent war with Ukraine - leaves an empty place. The communiqué states in pertinent part: "FIFA and UEFA have jointly decided that all Russian teams, national team or club, will be suspended from participating in both FIFA and UEFA competitions until further notice

".Who will occupy that space or will Poland be given a free hand to play in the final against the winner of the other key of the so-called Route B, i.e. Sweden or Czech Republic? FIFA has yet to make a decision on the matter

. We will see...Russia finished second in Group H with 22 points, one less than Croatia, the leader. They won seven, drew one and lost two matches, scored 19 goals and conceded six. That guaranteed them a place in the playoffs. Until this sanction, of course.

The match against Poland was to be played on March 24. The Polish Federation had already warned that they would not travel to Russia

to face that unique appointment for a place in the decisive match. That was the first step that invited to think about Valeri Karpin's national team's farewell to its World Cup aspirations.There is a related story behind this situation that deserves to be told. It happened almost three decades ago, in 1992, on Swedish soil. Denmark, which had fallen behind Yugoslavia in the qualifying zone, reached the European Championship as a result of the conflict over the dismemberment of the Balkans

.A curious and even poetic detail: the Danish players were all on vacation

. They thought the phone call from coach Richard Möller Nielsen was a joke, as shown in the film about that incredible triumph, "Summer of '92".The coach called them up. Everyone he could, of course. At the Danish Union's training camp on the outskirts of Copenhagen, 20 players were ready to travel to Sweden to see what it was like to play in a European Championship. The coach, pure daring, looked at them all and changed their smiles to a straight face with a devastating sentence that resembled a joke. Nine words: "We're going to Sweden to win the European Championship

.They read in newspapers and magazines - as they themselves told on the Robinson Report program - who their opponents were going to be. Most of those who would later become champions were not aware of anything. To begin with, they were drawn in the Group of Death: England (semifinalists in the World Cup two years earlier), the local team Sweden and France (Euro Cup winners in 1984). To top it all off, while they were wondering who they were going to play against, they found out that the best and most renowned of their players, Michael Laudrup (then a Barcelona star and champion of the European Champions Cup, today known as the Champions League) was not going to participate. He said he did not believe in that kind of improvisation

.The road had ups and downs, stumbles, epics

. They qualified from the group in second place, in an agonizing manner, after a 2-1 victory over France. In the semifinal they faced the defending champions, the Netherlands. The match ended in a 2-2 draw. Penalties put the team that paid the most in the betting (because no one believed in their chances) in the final.The same team that a month before had looked incredulous at the first practice in the Danish Union was now in front of history. The final awaited the contenders, Germany, at the Ullevi Stadium in Gothenburg. John Jensen and Kim Vilfort scored the goals in that match. Peter Schmeichel, the goalkeeper and star of the competition, was more of a giant than ever. He saved everything in that match and in almost the entire EURO. It happened on June 26, 1992. It is still fresh in the memory of the Danes. And one unmistakable impression remains: that feeling will last forever.

Will there be a second part in Qatar with other faces, with other names, in other colors, on another stage? It remains to be seen... The reality is that it seems impossible.

Yes, as impossible as that Danish glory of 1992. See also

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220302ei320049o


EMEA Morning Briefing: Shares Seen on Hold as Powell Comments, Ukraine Crisis Weighed
3001 字
2022 年 3 月 3 日 05:29 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

ECB Meeting Minutes; Eurozone, Germany, France, UK, Italy Services PMI; EU PPI; UK Official Reserves; Italy Unemployment; OECD CPI; Jerome Powell Congressional Testimony; updates from Merck KGaA , Thales , Bollore, ProSiebenSat.1 Media, SAP, Naturgy Energy, Mondi, Taylor Wimpey , Rentokil Initial , Meggitt, Admiral, Schroders , Alliance Trust, London Stock Exchange , ITV , CRH, Mail.ru, Sibanye-Stillwater , Entain , Darktrace , Ryanair , Novo Nordisk

Opening Call:

European shares may struggle for direction early Thursday as investors digest comments from Jerome Powell and monitor the latest Russia-Ukraine headlines. In Asia, stocks rebounded, following Wall Street's lead; oil's relentless rally continued, with Brent above $117; and the dollar, Treasury yields and gold all edged higher.

Equities:

European stock futures were near-flat early Thursday, with investors weighing the Federal Reserve 's plans on interest rates and the latest updates from Ukraine.

In Asia, the major stock indexes tracked solid gains on Wall Street, with the U.S. advance gathering steam after Jerome Powell outlined plans to begin dialing back the central bank's easy-money stance to fight inflation, while playing down the prospect of a larger-than-usual increase of benchmark rates in March.

Powell testified that it would be appropriate for the central bank to raise its benchmark interest rate, currently in a range between 0% and 0.25%, at its meeting in two weeks. Powell said he supported a 25 basis point increase, rather than a larger 50 basis point increase, and would propose such a move when the Fed convenes its two-day meeting mid March.

Powell's testimony "did clarify his and the Fed's approach to withdrawing stimulus in 2022 amid increased uncertainty from the Russia-Ukraine conflict," said Bill Adams , chief economist at Comerica Bank , adding that Powell sees the maximum employment part of his mandate as largely fulfilled.

"With inflation at a multidecade high, the Fed is anxious to get off of a crisis footing," Adams said, while also looking to "cool demand enough to get inflation under control, but not choke off the recovery."

Overnight, Russian forces continued to pound Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, as the Kyiv offensive stalls. The two cities remain under Ukrainian control, as Ukraine officials put the invasion's civilian death toll at 2,000 and Moscow acknowledges nearly 500 soldiers have been killed.

Economic Insight:

PGIM Fixed Income considers an interest-rate rise by the European Central Bank this year would be unlikely, with the crisis in Ukraine reducing eurozone growth to 3.7% from 4.2% in 2022, "delaying but not definitely derailing the recovery."

Recent events also offer the ECB an opportunity to regain control of the inflation narrative, with higher-than-expected inflation outturns clearly due to an external shock out of the ECB 's control, said PGIM FI.

"All else equal, sustained higher energy prices will slow the pace of monetary policy normalization in the eurozone, with a 2022 rate hike now unlikely." At the March meeting, PGIM FI expects the ECB to stick to a gradual tapering in asset purchases as at the December meeting.

The Fed:

Jerome Powell provided little push back on current market rate expectations, which have plummeted since Russia's invasion, said Capital Economics . With oil soaring, "consumer price inflation will remain elevated for longer than previously expected, but the Fed also needs to be mindful of the potential negative impact on the real economy."

Powell expressed support for a milder 25 basis point rate increase this month. "Quantitative tightening could help to shore up yields at the long end of the curve," said Capital Economics , which expects the Fed to initially shrink its balance sheet by $100 billion a month.

---

Deutsche Bank continues to think the Fed "doesn't want to be an additional source of volatility and uncertainty amid ongoing geopolitical events, making a more cautious initial step appropriate." The bank anticipates the Fed will raise rates by 25 basis points in March, in line with Powell's remarks today, but it maintains its expectations for 175 bps of total tightening this year.

"While our baseline is that these increases will come in 25bp increments at each meeting, we see significant risks that the Fed will move by larger steps in the coming months if geopolitical risks recede and inflation does not dissipate as quickly as expected."

Deutsche Bank noted Powell said persistently elevated inflation could necessitate raising the Fed funds rate by more than 25 bps at one or more meetings.

---

OANDA said the Fed will move forward with rate hikes and balance-sheet runoff, but officials there are getting concerned about the risks to the outlook.

"Powell acknowledged that the Ukraine war's impact on the U.S. economy is highly uncertain. It is possible that the war in Ukraine could lead to intensifying inflationary pressures that could lead to much more aggressive Fed tightening if growth does not fall off a cliff. Powell's position with the labor market being extremely tight and inflation 'well above' target has not changed," OANDA said.

"Risk appetite will struggle to fully return until a true end in the war in Ukraine is in sight."

Forex:

The euro remained under pressure against the dollar in Asia on worries that the Russia-Ukraine conflict will hold back European growth and Rabobank said these losses could steepen.

The conflict suggests higher-for-longer inflation and the potential for slower economic growth in the eurozone as energy prices push higher, said Rabobank forex strategist Jane Foley .

"Given that the headlines have made clear that Russian attacks in key Ukrainian cities have intensified, it must be assumed that safe haven demand will remain strong." That raises the prospect of a deeper downward move in EUR/USD, Foley said.

The dollar was higher against a basket of currencies with the mood in markets remaining fragile.

Other News:

Bitcoin may struggle to sustain its upward momentum, said OANDA .

"Bitcoin has had a nice run but exhaustion in this rally will likely settle in as surging energy costs will likely impact some mining abroad, Ukraine war uncertainty still has the potential to trigger major de-risking moments, and risk appetite needs to be healthy to break above this year's trading range."

For now, however, bitcoin looks "pretty attractive" as investors diversify away from fiat currencies and search for alternatives to equities amid economic growth concerns, while corporate America is expected to embrace blockchain opportunities.

Bonds:

The 10-year Treasury yield was steady early Thursday after it posted its biggest one-day gain in almost two years Wednesday, following Jerome Powell endorsment of a quarter-percentage point rate hike on March 16.

"It was evident from Powell's comments that the Fed does not want to be an additional source of volatility and uncertainty amid ongoing geopolitical events, making a more cautious initial step appropriate," said Deutsche Bank .

Other News:

Capital Economics expects a higher risk of Russian companies defaulting on their debt. "Administrative measures by the Russian government could prevent companies from repaying debts."

Russian companies' access to foreign-exchange markets has already been crimped by mandatory conversion orders, said Capital Economics . In addition, Western governments might decide to halt energy imports from Russia in a further escalation of sanctions, which would hit corporates' foreign-currency incomes hard, raising default risks.

Energy:

The relentless rally in oil sent prices surging again in Asia, with Brent above $117.

The possibility that Western nations' strict sanctions against Russia may swing global crude market into a deficit has been the primary factor supporting crude oil, said TD Securities .

Any additional sanctions or unanticipated supply interruption may cause oil prices to surge further in the near-term, as this would augment the significant worry of a large deficit, and there are few alternatives. Under these conditions, it wouldn't be surprising for key benchmark crude to jump to around $145/bbl, TD Securities added.

Many crude buyers have rejected buying Russian crude "as currently it is almost impossible to get insurance for cargoes sailing from Russia or to find banks willing to finance these operations," said Nicolas Daher, lead energy analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit.

"Russian volumes are very hard to replace and buyers are competing for a reduced supply, pushing prices up."

Metals:

Gold futures edged higher after they logged their first loss in three sessions Wednesday, as talks between Russia and Ukraine were poised to resume, helping to momentarily quell haven demand.

OANDA said bullion will remain very sensitive to news on the war and should undergo a strong move higher as geopolitical tensions and growth concerns won't be going away anytime soon. Demand for safe havens will probably remain elevated as the war is only in its early stages, OANDA reckons.

Nickel and aluminum extended their gains due to supply disruptions.

The conflict is disrupting large volumes of aluminum and nickel that are regularly shipped from St. Petersburg to European ports, said ANZ. It estimates the supply of aluminum stored in warehouses approved by the London Metal Exchange has already been halved in the past year due to higher energy and production costs.

Other News:

Citi said aluminum, copper and coal prices are likely to outperform in China's commodities sector, driven by rising buyer willingness to stock up in advance, given ongoing geopolitical uncertainties.

Citi said its recent meetings with over 50 clients suggest that "investors are increasingly willing to price in supply risks for commodities in light of geopolitical developments." This optimism is further supported by rebounding demand in overseas markets as economies increasingly open up, Citi added.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

3 Mar 2022 00:29 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Shares Seen on Hold as -2-

Powell Says Fed Is on Track to Raise Rates in Two Weeks

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said he would propose a quarter-percentage point rate increase at the central bank's meeting in two weeks amid high inflation, strong economic demand and a tight labor market, offering an unusually explicit preview of anticipated policy action.

Mr. Powell said Wednesday that, before Russia's invasion of Ukraine last week, he expected the central bank would follow that initial rate rise with a series of increases this year.

   
 
 
Russia Batters Ukraine's No. 2 City Kharkiv, as Kyiv Offensive Stalls

KYIV, Ukraine-Russian forces pounded Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, with airstrikes in a bid to break the will of the country's resistance as Moscow's offensive toward Kyiv stalled amid fierce Ukrainian counterattacks and logistics mishaps.

Russian missile debris fell near Kyiv's central train station on Wednesday night, damaging a major heating pipeline, with the blast wave breaking the station's windows. Thousands of civilians, particularly women and children, are sheltering in the station at night as they await evacuation trains to western Ukraine. Ukrainian officials said the missile was shot down by Kyiv's air defenses.

   
 
 
Biden Expected to Ban Russian Ships From Entering U.S. Ports

The Biden administration is expected to ban Russian-flagged ships from entering U.S. ports, according to officials familiar with the matter, extending sanctions against the country following its invasion of Ukraine.

The move, which follows a similar ban in the U.K., would be largely symbolic. Russian commercial ships represent less than 1% of cargo volumes to the U.S., according to shipping and port officials. Russian firms own a large fleet of oil tankers but they usually aren't Russian-flagged.

   
 
 
China Services Activity Drops to Six-Month Low, Weighed by Strict Covid-19 Curbs

A private gauge of China's services sector retreated further in February and slipped to a six-month low, as Beijing's strict anti-coronavirus restrictions weighed on consumer spending.

The Caixin China services purchasing managers index dropped to 50.2 in February from 51.4 in January, Caixin Media Co. and research company IHS Markit said Thursday. The reading remained above the 50 mark, which separates month-to-month activity expansion from contraction.

   
 
 
Shares of Chinese Oil Companies Rise, Fueled by Higher Crude Prices

Shares of Chinese oil companies gained in morning trade, fueled by the rise in crude oil prices amid worries that Russia's invasion of Ukraine will result in severe disruptions to global supply.

Hong Kong-listed PetroChina Co . rose as much as 2.4% in early trade before paring gains, and was last 1.7% higher at HK$4.31. The energy major's one-week gains stand at 4.9%, taking the stock to its highest level since September 2019.

   
 
 
U.S. Officials Detail Efforts to Enforce Raft of New Russia Rules

Law enforcement and regulatory agencies are preparing to enforce a raft of new export control rules and initiatives as part of the U.S. government 's response to the invasion of Ukraine.

Officials from the U.S. Justice Department , U.S. Commerce Department and other federal agencies spoke Wednesday at a conference on white-collar crime in San Francisco about their efforts to contribute to the Biden administration's response to Russia's military actions in Ukraine.

   
 
 
Russian Stock Market to Stay Closed for a Fourth Day

Russia's stock market will be largely closed for the fourth day in a row, the country's central bank said, amid continuing financial turbulence sparked by the invasion of Ukraine.

With limited exceptions, neither stock nor derivatives trading will resume Thursday on the Moscow Exchange, the Bank of Russia said in a statement late Wednesday local time.

   
 
 
Ukrainian Government Bonds Sink to New Lows Following Russian Military Escalation

Bonds issued by the Ukrainian government hit new lows Wednesday despite assurances from foreign governments and global institutions that they would continue to buttress Ukraine's wartime finances.

On Wednesday, a Ukrainian government bond coming due in September was quoted between 36 and 40 cents on the dollar, down from 65 cents on Friday, according to data from FactSet . A 2033 bond was quoted between 23 to 26 cents on the dollar Wednesday, down from 45 cents Friday.

   
 
 
Sanction Carve-Outs for Energy Aren't Enough to Keep Money Flowing to Russia

The aggressive sanctions against Russia left loopholes to allow payments for critical oil and gas supplies that fuel Europe-and the world's-economies. But businesses are instead going beyond, slapping a toxic label on anything to do with Russia, shunning its oil, refusing to issue insurance and cutting off financial transactions even with entities not on the sanctions list.

The result is deeper financial pressure on Russia, potentially triggering bankruptcies in industries that can't get access to cash or pay their bills. Other unintended consequences include higher prices for energy and crops like wheat, triggering greater inflation in the global economy.

   
 
 
Export Controls Against Russia Add to Uncertainty for Business

Restrictions on technology sales that the U.S. and its allies are clamping on Russia are adding to the uncertain climate for businesses, though how hard the export controls hit the Russian economy, trade specialists said, will depend on enforcement.

The controls, announced last week, restrict exports of semiconductors, lasers, information-security equipment and other technology to Russia's defense, aerospace and maritime industries and, U.S. officials said, are aimed at undermining President Vladimir Putin 's defense capabilities and aspirations for Russia to lead in cutting-edge fields such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing.

   
 
 
Sweden's SEB Changes Course on Defense Stocks as War Tests ESG Rules

Sweden-based financial-services company Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB said it would permit some of its funds to buy shares of weapons makers and defense companies, reversing a position it adopted just a year ago as part of its commitment to investing based on environmental, social and governance principles.

SEB will from April 1 allow six out of its more than 100 funds to invest in companies that generate more than 5% of their revenue from the defense business. SEB announced the change in its sustainability report on Tuesday and listed the funds that will be allowed to invest in defense companies.

   
 
 
U.S. Worries Sudan Is Close to Leasing Russia a Red Sea Base

U.S. officials are increasingly concerned that Sudan's military junta will allow Russia to build a naval base on the country's strategic Red Sea coast.

Sudanese officials have suggested in recent weeks that they plan to resurrect a suspended 2020 agreement that would give Moscow a 25-year lease on a base in Port Sudan-a pact the U.S. had done its utmost to quash.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Thursday

00:01/UK: CBI Service Sector Survey

01:01/IRL: Feb Ireland Services PMI

07:00/TUR: Feb CPI

07:00/TUR: Feb PPI

07:00/DEN: Jan Unemployment

07:00/ROM: Jan Retail trade

07:30/SWI: Feb CPI

08:00/HUN: Jan Retail Sales

08:15/SPN: Feb Spain Services PMI

08:45/ITA: Feb Italy Services PMI

08:50/FRA: Feb France Services PMI

08:55/GER: Feb Germany Services PMI

09:00/EU: Feb Eurozone Services PMI

09:00/ITA: Jan Unemployment

09:30/UK: Feb UK Official Reserves

09:30/UK: Feb CIPS / Markit Services PMI

10:00/EU: Jan PPI

10:00/CYP: Feb Registered Unemployed

10:00/EU: Jan Unemployment

10:00/CYP: Feb CPI

11:00/FRA: Jan OECD CPI

16:59/BEL: Jan PPI

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 03, 2022 00:29 ET (05:29 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220303ei330008p


BBC Russia says there have been reports there are problems accessing its website...
6987 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日 20:58 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
BBC Russia says there have been reports there are problems accessing its website in Russia.

However, there has been no confirmation if the BBC has been banned by the Kremlin.

BBC Russia also said the domain https://bbc.com[https://bbc.com] has not been added to the registry of banned sites.

German public broadcaster Deutsche Welle reported, in Russian, that the BBC site was not working in Russia.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky after news broke about a fire at the nuclear power station in Zaporizhzhia.

A Downing Street spokeswoman called the situation "gravely concerning", adding: "Both leaders agreed that Russia must immediately cease its attack on the power station and allow unfettered access for emergency services to the plant.

"The Prime Minister said the reckless actions of President Putin could now directly threaten the safety of all of Europe. He said the UK would do everything it could to ensure the situation did not deteriorate further.

"The Prime Minister said he would be seeking an emergency UN Security Council meeting in the coming hours, and that the UK would raise this issue immediately with Russia and close partners.

"Both leaders agreed a ceasefire was crucial."

The international community needs to "come down hard on Putin" after Russian forces shelled a nuclear power station in the south-eastern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia, according to the Deputy Prime Minister.

Dominic Raab told Times Radio: "It is clearly reckless, irresponsible and not only the fact they were shooting, bombarding that particular site, but when the Ukrainian emergency authorities were trying to put out the fire, the shelling continued.

"It must stop.

"We support the Ukrainians in dealing with the security situation there but also I think come down hard on Vladimir Putin.

"That's why the Prime Minister has called for an emergency United Nations security council meeting in New York so the entire international community can address this, because of course it is a much wider threat, given the nuclear implications.

"It is an affront to the world at large."

Dominic Raab said it was "doubly reprehensible" that Russian forces had continued to shell a nuclear site after Ukrainian emergency services had looked to put a fire out at Europe's largest power station.

The Deputy Prime Minister told Sky News the Russians had inflicted a bombardment on a "very sensitive, precarious and dangerous facility" in Zaporizhzhia.

He said: "The fact that the Russians kept on bombarding after there was the fire and the Ukrainian emergency rescue team were trying to get to that makes it doubly reprehensible."

Mr Raab said the UN security council meeting being called for by Boris Johnson was needed to "ramp up the pressure on these appalling tactics we are seeing from the Kremlin".

(Corrected repetition: Changes 'voted for' in par six to 'taken')

Latvia's foreign minister has said Nato should "consider all options" when asked about entering direct conflict with Russia.

Edgars Rinkevics told the BBC's Today programme that governments "should not exclude" any recourse to stop the invasion.

Earlier, the programme heard from former Ukrainian prime minister Oleksiy Honcharuk, who said other European countries "don't understand" the lengths Putin will go to.

He said leaders from other countries should offer direct military support and "at least to close our skies to protect us from the threat".

Asked about the comments, Mr Rinkevics said: "I think we should consider all options but we should also understand, let's say, some Nato policies can be implemented only if those countries that have necessary assets agree on that."

He added that any decision would have to be taken unanimously.

Asked whether Nato may instead be forced to broker an "uncomfortable" settlement with Russia, the minister replied: "Well, I think we must do everything that we can. That's why I'm saying that we should not exclude any options."

The UK is "at the vanguard" of imposing sanctions on Kremlin-linked money, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, as he sought to defend the Government's actions on targeting Russian oligarchs.

Dominic Raab was asked during broadcast interviews why the European Union had sanctioned more individual Russian elites than Britain.

Speaking to BBC Breakfast, Dominic Raab said it was a "false distinction" to make, adding: "The question is not whether it is individuals or companies - it is where the money is flowing."

Separately, he said: "There has been a running commentary that the UK has somehow been slow - we've not been slow.

"We've been at the vanguard of taking action and, of course, what is really important is we act in concert with our allies, European, American and other Nato allies.

"For example, we have sanctioned more Russian banks than the EU, including Sberbank, which is the biggest Russian bank. We've made it clear and introduced measures so that three million Russian companies cannot raise loans or get listed on the UK stock market.

"These measures - and each country has slightly different sanctions regimes - are all aimed at tightening the noose, if you like, and starving off the finance that is going into Putin's war machine."

The Deputy Prime Minister said he would support giving over seized Russian oligarch property in the UK to Ukrainian refugees.

Asked on LBC whether Britain could capture property assets owned by Russian elites in punishment for Moscow's invasion on Ukraine, Dominic Raab said: "Yeah, if we've got the evidence and the legal basis, then we'll do it."

Pressed on whether he would back using those properties to house Ukrainian refugees - a move called for by the Liberal Democrats and reportedly argued for in Government by Housing Secretary Michael Gove - Mr Raab replied: "Yes, absolutely.

"We are looking at everything in the round, it is a team effort across Government, from the foreign and defence secretary through to Michael Gove and, of course, the Prime Minister is driving this very hard."

Vladimir Putin is "at risk" of ending up in prison for war crimes carried out by his Russian forces in Ukraine, the Justice Secretary said.

Dominic Raab, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, was asked on Times Radio whether he saw the conflict ending with the Russian president "imprisoned for war crimes".

He said: "I think it is a very real risk that he must now contemplate.

"Beyond his personal situation, every commander operating in Ukraine, or indeed Moscow, when they are faced with illegal orders, whether it is to target civilians or otherwise, attack illegal or unlawful sites, they now know the ICC (international criminal court ) is investigating and the chief prosecutor Karim Khan is, I believe, travelling to Ukraine.

"They must now know that they face the very real risk of ending up in the dock of a court and, ultimately, in a prison if they follow through on those illegal, unlawful orders."

The Welsh Government is to provide £4 million in aid to Ukraine.

First Minister Mark Drakeford, who told Sky News that Wales hopes to be "a nation of sanctuary" for Ukrainian refugees, said the aid would help people on the front line.

He told the programme: "We know that cash is what is really needed here and now on the ground for people who can obtain those goods and put that money to good use - and that is why the £4 million from the Welsh Government will go to the Disasters Emergency Committee appeal that we launched here in Wales yesterday."

He could not say how many refugees that Wales could be dealing with and that many of them might like to stay near family or friends who may live elsewhere.

He said: "What we would like to see through the UK Government is a simple, fast, safe and legal route for those needing to seek sanctuary elsewhere in the world and in Wales to be able to come here.

"For those people for whom Wales could be even a temporary home, a temporary place of sanctuary, we will want to do everything we can to welcome them and to provide for them."

Justice Secretary Dominic Raab is looking to change the law to prevent Russian oligarchs and kleptocrats from exploiting the British justice system to "silence" those investigating corruption linked to Vladimir Putin's regime.

The Cabinet minister told BBC Breakfast: "There is another aspect to this that I'm looking at as a matter of urgency and will be producing proposals on very shortly.

"We have seen oligarchs and kleptocrats and those with links to Putin coming into this country and suing under our libel laws those who are shining a light, whether it is authors or NGOs, on corruption and abuse.

"And that is an abuse of our system and I'm going to be putting forward proposals to deal with that and to prevent that.

"It cannot be right that kleptocrats and those with links to Putin can silence those shining a light on those excesses and use our courts to do so."

The UK has got to "stop dragging" its feet in clamping down on funds that have come from figures linked to Russia President Vladimir Putin, Labour Party chairwoman Anneliese Dodds has said.

She told Sky News: "I certainly would say that we have been far too soft, especially over the last 10 years, on those funds that have come from Putin-linked oligarchs and business people."

She rejected the Government's claims that it has been working strongly against economic levers for Putin-linked individuals.

She said: "I have got to say that, for many, many years, Labour has been calling on the Conservatives to, for example, force transparency around property ownership, especially in London where we know that many of these Putin-linked oligarchs have been stashing their funds in property.

"We see, even with the new measures that finally have been extracted from the Government now that they say they will announce on Monday, an 18-month window before they will come into action - that's just not good enough.

"We need immediate action now. We can put those registers of foreign-owned property into place in 28 days, we believe we could get those running and force that transparency.

"We should have had it many years ago but, above all, we need it right now. We have got to act right now and we have got to stop dragging our feet as the Conservative Government has been doing."

Dominic Raab said he would not comment on individuals after being asked about the circumstances of the sale of Chelsea football club and the potential for owner Roman Abramovich to profit.

Asked on BBC Radio 4's Today programme whether Mr Abramovich should be able to do "what he wants to" with the proceeds of the sale, the Deputy Prime Minister said: "I'm not going to talk about individual sanctions on individuals."

Pressed on the case of Mr Abramovich and the sale of his Premier League club, Mr Raab said: "We don't talk about individual cases before the sanctions are imposed.

"We have overnight imposed sanctions on Mr (Alisher) Usmanov and (Igor) Shuvalov, but the reason we do it is, first of all, precisely because it is contested and, as Justice Secretary, I can't prejudge these things.

"But, more importantly, we do not want to give advance sight to anyone of the measures that we take."

The West must be prepared for Russian President Vladimir Putin's tactics in Ukraine to become "ever more barbaric", a Cabinet minister has warned.

Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Secretary Dominic Raab told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the economic sanctions taken on Russia are "starting to bite" but that Britain and its allies need to "bed in and have the strategic stamina for the long haul".

He added: "I've said that we can expect that, after the stuttering start to this campaign, that Putin would resort to ever more barbaric measures as he gets frustrated.

"And that is the next phase that we all need to be alert to, whether it is the sanctions or the steeling of the capacity and the will of the Ukrainian defence."

In response to the situation at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, a Nuclear Industry Association spokesman said: "We condemn in the strongest possible terms the Russian military attacks around the Zaporizhzhia plant that have endangered the lives of nuclear workers bravely discharging their duties.

"We commend the extraordinary dedication of the station's staff and operators in what are terrible circumstances, and emphatically endorse the IAEA's call for a halt to all use of force around Ukraine's nuclear power plants.

"We understand that the fire at the plant was not in the reactor buildings, has been extinguished and has not affected essential equipment, with no reported change in radiation levels."

The BBC said it will continue efforts to make sure people in Russia have access to its news output following reports that its Russian Service website has been blocked in the country.

A BBC spokesman said: "Access to accurate, independent information is a fundamental human right which should not be denied to the people of Russia, millions of whom rely on BBC News every week. We will continue our efforts to make BBC News available in Russia, and across the rest of the world."

The broadcaster previously said the audience for its Russian language news website has more than tripled its year-to-date weekly average to a record 10.7 million people in the last week, while visitors to the English language bbc.com in Russia were up 252% to 423,000 last week.

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer described the overnight attack on a nuclear plant in Ukraine as "deeply alarming".

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham, Sir Keir said: "I think the whole world will be shocked. I think it's very important that we unite now and renew that message that Russia must withdraw.

"We need a ceasefire - and we need to stop this aggression from Russia because this escalation is deeply, deeply concerning."

Asked how Nato and western governments could stop the escalating attacks on Ukraine, Sir Keir Starmer said: "We need the retreat from the Russian aggression in Ukraine - it's as simple as that.

"Every day we are seeing these attacks and the devastation that they are bringing about."

Sir Keir said of President Putin: "From what I've already seen, it seems to me there is evidence of war crimes and it's very important that all of those responsible are held to account.

"What's really important now is the gathering of evidence to make sure that the most powerful case can be brought whenever it can be brought."

Asked for his view of the UK Government's efforts to sanction Russian oligarchs, Sir Keir Starmer said: "Where the Government is taking action on sanctions, we support them. But they have got to go further and faster.

"We must go after every oligarch. This is the weapon we have to use and we need to use it now.

"I am particularly concerned about the arrangements where the Government is suggesting there could be 18 months for those overseas owners to register their assets and their ownership.

"That gives them 18 months to remove their assets from this country, so I want to see the Government move on this."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK Government is doing "all we can to support the Ukrainians".

Speaking in Brussels, Ms Truss said she was holding various meetings to show "the strength of our unity in challenging Vladimir Putin, in stopping Vladimir Putin, in Ukraine".

"We're doing all we can to support the Ukrainians through defensive weapons, where the UK led - we were the first European country to donate defensive weapons, and we're also going to be talking about sanctions."

She said sanctions were having a "big effect in Russia" but she said she was looking at how to speed up the process.

"We've sanctioned more companies than our counterparts across the world, we've just sanctioned two more major oligarchs last night," she said.

"What I'm doing is looking how we can speed up that process to make even more progress on that front.

"The number one thing (that's) important though, is that we are unified with our partners across the world in putting the toughest ever sanctions we've had on Russia."

Sir Keir Starmer has said Labour wanted to see a rule brought in to force oligarchs to register assets over a "very, very short" period measured in days.

The Labour leader said: "Otherwise what will happen - it's inevitable - is that people will remove their assets... they will remove and sell their properties in the UK, and put the money somewhere else.

"This is the powerful weapon we have to support Ukraine. We've got to use it.

"I say to the Government - get rid of the 18-month timeline. Bring it down to a number of days and we will vote it through on Monday.

"The strongest provisions, we will be united in voting through. But I don't want to see the Government slowing down here or losing the ambition to take that opportunity."

Sir Keir Starmer said it was clear Ukraine wanted the strongest possible response from Nato members, adding that the people of the country were "bravely" fighting back.

Asked for his view of President Vladimir Putin's state of mind and the way he was acting, Sir Keir answered: "Putin is a dangerous aggressor who is in breach of international law.

"I think he is gambling that Ukraine and our allies, the United Kingdom and Nato would not be united. He will be surprised by how united we are."

Sir Keir Starmer called for Conservative fundraiser and co-chair Ben Elliot to be sacked for his role in links between the Tories and Russian money.

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham Erdington, Sir Keir said: "I think there is growing concern about the links between the Conservative Party and Russian money.

"Ben Elliot is at the heart of that. We need to strip Russian money away from our politics, not to allow it to influence our politics.

"There will always be this danger if the Conservative government doesn't go really hard on this that people will say it must be because you are reliant on Russian money that you are not going more quickly.

"So, it's in everybody's best interests that Ben Elliot steps back from his role - and I think he should actually be sacked from it."

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has spoken of "numerous cases" of rapes in his country as the Russian invasion continues.

Welcoming a call to create a special tribunal to punish Vladimir Putin for the crime of aggression against Ukraine, he said it was "difficult" to talk about international law amid the country's current suffering.

He told an online event organised by the Chatham House think-tank: "When bombs fall on your cities, when soldiers rape women in the occupied cities - and we have numerous cases of, unfortunately, when Russian soldiers rape women in Ukrainian cities - it's difficult of course to speak about the efficiency of the international law.

"This is the only tool of civilisation that is available to us to make sure that, in the end, eventually, all those who made this war possible will be brought to justice and the Russian Federation, as a country that committed an act of aggression, will also be held accountable for its deeds."

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba called on the media to "spread the truth about Russia's crimes against Ukraine".

He thanked people for their continued support, saying: "I appreciate that all of you stand by Ukraine."

He told those listening to an online event organised by the Chatham House think-tank: "We are fighting against the enemy who is much stronger than us.

"But international law is on our side, and hopefully it will help us, it will make its own contribution, to help us prevail."

On the issue of Russian money being laundered in London, the city's mayor Sadiq Khan told PA: "It is quite clear that many people across the globe, including in Russia, see London as the money laundering capital of the world. That's unacceptable.

"So, we're lobbying the Government to be seizing the assets of those Russian oligarchs who are close to Putin, to be making sure that the sanctions are implemented, it's really important to do so.

"But also to urgently make public a list of all those properties in our city that are owned by those who are from overseas."

He added: "We've already had more than a week since the Russians invaded Ukraine, and no real movement from the Government, no real action. They've got to step up.

"Other countries in the European Union can be seizing multi-million pound yachts. Why can't we?"

Supermarket chain Sainsbury's will stop selling all products that come from Russia and change the name of Chicken Kievs to Chicken Kyiv to match the Ukrainian spelling of the capital city.

The company said that it would be removing Russian Standard vodka and Karpayskiye black sunflower seeds from its shelves.

But it will continue to sell JJ Whitley products after the manufacturer said it plans to move all production to Chorley in the UK.

"We stand united with the people of Ukraine. We have reviewed our product range and have decided to remove from sale all products that are 100% sourced from Russia," the supermarket said.

Boris Johnson does not back calls for Russian President Vladimir Putin to be assassinated, No 10 said.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister was asked about comments made by US Senator Lindsey Graham urging Russians to kill their leader.

Asked if the PM agreed, the spokesman said: "No, we stand with the Ukrainian people in demanding the immediate end to the Russian invasion.

"We've said before that Putin must be held (to) account in front of an international court for the horrific act he's committed."

Former prime minister Gordon Brown criticised Russia for not making a statement regarding safety on the nuclear power station in south-eastern Ukraine it has taken control of, saying that is a "failure to respond to the pleas of the international community".

He told an online event organised by the Chatham House think-tank: "I am surprised that this morning, now that the Russian government have taken over a second nuclear power station in Ukraine, and now are in control of it, they have not made a statement that they will not allow that nuclear station to be used to endanger and to threaten human life.

"It is these very instances of Russia's failure to respond to the pleas of the international community, that make us determined that we will step up our campaign to make sure that Russia is brought to justice for what is a crime of aggression but of course could - and I support the International Criminal Court's actions - be in other areas too."

Boris Johnson is concerned for the safety of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, Downing Street said.

The Prime Minister has regularly spoken to the Ukrainian leader and has expressed his personal admiration of him and a spokesman for the PM was asked whether Mr Johnson was worried about attempts reportedly made on Mr Zelensky's life.

He said: "Of course, everybody's concerned for the safety and welfare of the President of Ukraine and the rest of the government, as well as the people of Ukraine who we've seen indiscriminately targeted over recent days."

The Defence Secretary said the shared values of the West were "under threat" from Russian president Vladimir Putin and his invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking in Copenhagen, Denmark, where he is visiting allies in the UK Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF), Ben Wallace said Mr Putin was "bombarding, ordering the killing, invasion of a sovereign country for simply having the nerve to choose a different future for itself".

The Cabinet minister said there were fears that a "new Cold War, a new Iron Curtain will descend upon Europe".

He added: "Now is the time for us to stand together in common values and in determination, both in soft and hard power.

"We recognise that freedom isn't free."

Mr Wallace was speaking on board a ship that was preparing to deliver Danish forces to serve alongside British troops in Estonia, which he said would "send a common message to President Putin that we are all together, whether you are in Nato or not, joined at the hip by our values".

Priti Patel has said Ukrainians fleeing into Poland were escaping "the most atrocious set of circumstances where they are being persecuted by President Putin".

Speaking on a visit to the Polish border, the Home Secretary told reporters she was in the country "very much in terms of standing in solidarity with the people of Ukraine, but also with our friends here in Poland".

She said she wanted to "to see the work that they're doing and also to see how we can support Poland much more in terms of helping those Ukrainians with links to the United Kingdom to come to Britain, and actually we've been discussing some of that work here today".

Ms Patel said: "We're also launching our new family extension route today to enable Ukrainian families with links to the UK to come over to Britain. That scheme is live, that is now working, that's up and running.

"We stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of Ukraine but also with our dear friends here in Poland, who are working really night and day, we can all see this, under incredible circumstances."

The Disasters Emergency Committee's (DEC) Ukraine appeal has raised £55 million in its first day.

The total includes "generous" donations from the Queen, the Prince of Wales and the Duke of Cambridge, DEC said.

It said hundreds of thousands of members of the public donated to the humanitarian appeal within hours of its launch on Thursday.

The total includes £20 million donated by the UK Government as part of its UK Aid Match scheme - the largest commitment ever made to a DEC appeal through the initiative.

DEC chief executive Saleh Saeed said the committee is "extremely grateful" for the "huge generosity" of everyone who has donated to the appeal, adding: "We are also very grateful for the generous support of the royal family."

He said: "We also thank the UK Government who have matched pound for pound the first £20 million donated by the public, as well as our broadcast partners and celebrities for having aired and joined the appeal, reaching millions of viewers and listeners.

"Giving through the DEC is the most effective way to get the right assistance to the right people. While wanting to collect clothes and other items for people in need is laudable, the things people give today may not be what people need tomorrow and aid workers say they can't use much of what is arriving. Donating through the DEC is the most helpful way people can assist.

"While we have raised an astonishing amount in the first day of the appeal, we urge people to continue donating as the need is great and the response needed is likely to run into months and years. Please help now."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic about the situation in Ukraine on Friday afternoon.

The pair "reaffirmed their unwavering support for Ukraine's territorial integrity", while Mr Johnson said the UK would "continue to support Serbia's efforts to promote stability in the wider region", a Downing Street spokesperson said.

"The leaders agreed to continue to work together on a range of issues, including across the energy sector," the spokesperson added.

"President Vucic thanked the Prime Minister for the UK's leading role during this time of crisis."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia's invasion of Ukraine is "an attack on our freedoms, our values and the security of Europe".

In a statement issued after a meeting with defence ministers from the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) nations, Mr Wallace said Russian President Vladimir Putin has "sought to break our defensive alliances, which is why now, more than at any point in the history of the JEF, our partnership is so vital".

He added: "We are united in our resolve across the JEF nations to support Ukraine. Our values are Ukraine's values and we will continue to provide lethal and non-lethal aid, alongside sending additional forces to Estonia serving with our Danish allies."

The BBC will "temporarily suspend" the work of all its BBC News journalists and support staff in Russia following new legislation passed by the Russian authorities.

BBC director-general Tim Davie said: "This legislation appears to criminalise the process of independent journalism. It leaves us no other option than to temporarily suspend the work of all BBC News journalists and their support staff within the Russian Federation while we assess the full implications of this unwelcome development.

"Our BBC News service in Russian will continue to operate from outside Russia.

"The safety of our staff is paramount and we are not prepared to expose them to the risk of criminal prosecution simply for doing their jobs. I'd like to pay tribute to all of them, for their bravery, determination and professionalism.

"We remain committed to making accurate, independent information available to audiences around the world, including the millions of Russians who use our news services. Our journalists in Ukraine and around the world will continue to report on the invasion of Ukraine."

The importance of the "total international condemnation of Russia's barbaric actions" has been agreed between Boris Johnson and Turkish President Recep Erdogan in a phone call on Friday afternoon.

A Downing Street spokesperson said the pair had spoken and that: "They agreed on the powerful message sent by the UN General Assembly earlier this week in opposition to the Russian invasion."

"The leaders discussed the need to continue supporting the people of Ukraine in their resistance against Russian aggression," the spokesperson said.

"The Prime Minister outlined the steps the UK has taken to isolate Russia both militarily and economically.

"Both the Prime Minister and President Erdogan highlighted the immediate need for Russia to provide urgent humanitarian access to Ukraine.

"They agreed to stay in close contact in the coming days as part of the co-ordinated Nato and international response."

The Metropolitan Police said the War Crimes Team is part of Counter Terrorism Command and has "national responsibility for carrying out any UK enquiries into war crimes and core international crimes".

Detectives are appealing for anyone in the UK who may have direct evidence of war crimes in Ukraine from 21 November 2013 onwards to come forward, and are particularly keen to hear from anyone who may have witnessed or been the victim of any war crimes in Ukraine during this period.

Evidence given to and gathered by the War Crimes Team may then be shared with the International Criminal Court to assist with their investigation.

Commander Richard Smith, head of the Met's Counter Terrorism Command, which includes the War Crimes Team said: "Following the news that the ICC (International Criminal Court) had opened an investigation into war crimes in Ukraine, our War Crimes Team is now seeking to gather any evidence that might be present here in the UK of such crimes in Ukraine.

"This could be in the form of direct messages, images or videos that friends or relatives here in the UK have been sent by those in Ukraine.

"Or it could be somebody who was previously in Ukraine and who may have witnessed or even been a victim of a war crime and has since travelled to the UK.

"To be clear though, we specifically want to hear from people who are now here in the UK, and who have a direct link to any relevant information or evidence - this is not about the general public highlighting or telling us about things they might have simply come across or seen in the media, online or on social media."

The UK permanent representative to the United Nations said Russia "must keep fighting away from and protect the safety and security of nuclear sites".

Dame Barbara Woodward said it was a relief that reports so far suggested there had been "no release of radioactive material" following Russia's shelling of a nuclear power station in Ukraine, but such an attack "must not happen again".

Addressing the UN Security Council, she said: "Colleagues, this is the first time that a state has attacked a fuelled and functioning nuclear power plant.

"International law requires special protection for nuclear facilities. And it is difficult to see how Russia's actions were compatible with its commitments under Article 56 of the additional protocol of the (Geneva) Conventions. It must not happen again.

"Even in the midst of an illegal invasion of Ukraine, Russia must keep fighting away from and protect the safety and security of nuclear sites."

Dame Barbara Woodward said Russian President Vladimir Putin had "misjudged the strength, resilience and will of the Ukrainian people".

Addressing the UN Security Council, the UK permanent representative to the United Nations said: "President Putin said yesterday that the special military operation, or as everyone else calls it, the war, was going to plan. Everyone around this table knows that is not true.

"President Putin misjudged the strength, resilience and will of the Ukrainian people to his invasion.

"He underestimated the world's condemnation of his actions - 141 votes in the General Assembly and the unprecedented sanctions on Russia demonstrate the strength of the global response.

"Every day, this war continues the destruction it brings to Ukraine, the suffering it inflicts on Ukrainian and Russian people, and the risks it poses to international peace and security increase.

"This must stop. We call on Russia to end this violence, withdraw its troops and enter into serious peace negotiations."

A former British ambassador to Russia said he suspects the next few days of the Ukraine crisis will be "pretty grisly".

Sir Roderic Lyne, who held the post from 2000 to 2004, told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "(Russian President Vladimir) Putin is working towards the moment when he can say 'mission accomplished', and claim to his own people that he has secured a great victory in what he denies is a war or an invasion, and calls a special military operation.

"And I do not see him turning back from that objective until he reaches a point where he can say that."

The Government has put forward a series of amendments to the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Bill to "crack down on corrupt elites" and put pressure on Russia, the Foreign Office said.

The FCDO said changes will allow the UK to align more rapidly with the individual designations imposed by allies such as the US, Canada and the EU via an urgent designation procedure.

The amendments will remove the test of 'appropriateness' for designations, enabling the government to act more quickly and make changes to further facilitate the designations of groups of individuals.

The Government has also brought forward amendments to shorten the deadline for overseas companies to register their beneficial owners from 18 months to six months, aiming to crack down on money laundering through UK property.

A further amendment will also increase criminal penalties for non-compliance from fines of up to £500 per day to up to £2,500 per day.

Boris Johnson said the changes to the legislation would give the UK "new powers in our arsenal to go further and faster" in sanctioning Vladimir Putin's regime.

He said: "The UK has led the way with the toughest package of sanctions against Putin's regime and we're bolstering this with new powers in our arsenal to go further and faster.

"We will ramp up the pressure on those criminal elites trying to launder money on UK soil and close the net on corruption. They will have nowhere to hide."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss added: "Our message to Putin and his cronies has been clear from day one - invading Ukraine would have serious and crippling consequences. We have been true to our word, introducing the largest and strongest sanctions package in our history, but we are not stopping here.

"The changes we are making will allow us to go faster and harder on those closest to Putin, including oligarchs, as we continue to ratchet pressure in the face of illegal and unprovoked Russian aggression."

Amendments to the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Bill will be expedited through all its Commons stages on Monday.

Russia has blocked access to Facebook, according to the country's state communications watchdog Roskomnadzor.

In a statement, the regulator said: "On March 4, 2022, a decision was made to block access to the Facebook network (owned by Meta Platforms, Inc) in the Russian Federation.

"Since October 2020, 26 cases of discrimination against Russian media and information resources by Facebook have been recorded.

"In recent days, the social network has restricted access to accounts: the Zvezda TV channel, the RIA Novosti news agency, Sputnik, Russia Today, the Lenta.ru and Gazeta.ru information resources."

It comes a week after Russia limited access to Facebook after the social media provider refused to stop fact-checking and labelling content from state-owned organisations.

Sir Nick Clegg, vice president of global affairs at Facebook's parent company Meta, said of the decision: "Soon millions of ordinary Russians will find themselves cut off from reliable information, deprived of their everyday ways of connecting with family and friends and silenced from speaking out.

"We will continue to do everything we can to restore our services so they remain available to people to safely and securely express themselves and organise for action."

Boris Johnson spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron about the "appalling situation in Ukraine" on Friday evening.

The Prime Minister described it as "the worst war on our continent for a long time", while both leaders agreed "the reckless actions leading to damage to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant were despicable", to a Downing Street spokesperson said.

The leaders were said to have agreed it is "imperative" both countries continue to do all they can to help the Ukrainian people, "including via further humanitarian support - as well as economically and militarily".

"Both leaders reiterated the UK and France would work closely in the coming days in the face of Putin's increasingly savage and evil actions," the spokesperson added.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted a message in Ukrainian on Friday night that read: "I want to address Ukrainians directly here in the UK and those in Ukraine and neighbouring countries."

In a video clip underneath he said: "I cannot even imagine what you're living through right now, or the outrage and heartbreak you must feel as everything you know and love is so inexplicably and brutally shattered.

"What's happening in your homeland is an abomination, and like people across the UK, I am heartsick at the destruction and loss of life.

"On Wednesday, MPs in our House of Commons stood to applaud the Ukrainian ambassador and to demonstrate that the whole of the UK stands squarely with the people of Ukraine, and your awe-inspiring struggle against this aggression.

"Together, with Ukraine's many friends, we're doing everything we can to support you and to impose a mountain of pressure on Vladimir Putin.

"We're working with more than 25 allies and partners from as far away as Australia to support those engaged in the battle, not only to protect their homes, but freedom and democracy itself.

"With the US and the European Union, we've brought in the biggest package of global sanctions ever imposed on Russia. And we will go further, unless and until this aggression stops."

Boris Johnson added in his video message: "The world is turning its back on Putin and his regime.

"Global corporations are severing ties with Russia. Participation in sporting events is being cancelled, and nation after nation is taking a stand.

"The vice is tightening its grip, and it will continue to tighten.

"To those Ukrainians here in the UK, who I know are desperately worried about family and friends, I can tell you we're doing everything we can to help those fleeing the conflict. If you're a Ukrainian in the UK, we've made it easier for you to bring over family members through the Ukrainian Family Scheme.

"On Tuesday, I announced there will be a new humanitarian sponsorship route, and we're matching the donations you make through the Disasters Emergency Committee Ukraine appeal, starting with £20 million, alongside the hundreds of millions were providing in humanitarian aid.

"Putin has made a grave miscalculation. The free world is united in its resolve to stand up to his barbarism, and the fortitude and defiance of the Ukrainian people in the face of this unjust and unwarranted aggression is moving hearts around the world.

"I've spoken almost every day to President Volodymyr Zelensky, and I marvelled at his bravery, his calm, his sense of purpose, just as I marvel at the heroism and resolve of the Ukrainian people.

"And I know that however long it takes, however arduous, Putin must fail. Our thoughts and our sympathies are with the whole of Ukraine in its battle for freedom."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220304ei340008d


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Fall as Russia Attacks Ukraine's Largest Nuclear Plant
3325 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日 05:21 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Germany Foreign Trade; EU Retail trade; UK CIPS/Markit Construction PMI; U.S. Employment Report; results from Deutsche Post , TCS Group.

Opening Call:

European stocks are likely set for another day of losses after Ukraine's foreign minister said on Twitter that Russian troops were shelling Europe's largest nuclear power plant in the southern city of Enerhodar. U.S. stock futures were also pointing lower. Safe-haven assets such as USD, JPY, Treasurys, and gold rose in the morning Asian session. Oil rose in the early Asian session on supply concerns driven by the intensifying war.

Equities:

European stocks could open sharply lower after reports that Europe's largest nuclear power plant, in Ukraine, was set on fire after Russian shelling, raising fears of an unprecedented nuclear disaster.

U.S. stock futures plunged immediately after the first reports, but largely recovered as reports indicated no imminent disaster.

According to Associated Press reports, the nuclear power plant in the southern Ukrainian city of Enerhodar was shelled by Russian troops, and the facility caught fire.

Plant spokesman Andriy Tuz told the AP that shells were falling directly on the plant and that one reactor - which had been under renovation and not operating, but still contains nuclear fuel - was on fire. He added that firefighters could get to the scene because of the fighting. The plant reportedly has six reactors, and three had been offline before the attack.

Ukrainian officials said the fire had been extinguished.

There was some confusion about the details; a Reuters correspondent reported that the fire broke out at a training building outside the plant's perimeter, and a Ukrainian regulator told the International Atomic Energy Agency there were no signs of increased radiation at the site and that the fire "has not affected 'essential' equipment."

In a series of tweets, U.S. Energy Secretary Jennifer Graholm called Russia's military operations at the plant "reckless," but said "We have seen no elevated radiation readings near the facility" and added that the reactors are being safely shut down.

Russia's military offensive has advanced in Southern Ukraine and potential talks got pushed back until next week, Oanda said.

Market Insight:

The war in Ukraine is likely to keep the eurozone's fiscal stance loose for longer than expected, Capital Economics said. The decision to suspend the debt-reduction rule for another year gives countries the chance to ramp up spending on defense and cushion the blow from higher energy prices, the economic-research firm said.

CE estimates that the fiscal cost of these measures could be at least 2% of the bloc's GDP, although it will largely depend on how long the conflict lasts and how severe the side effects are. In the long term, this shift in fiscal policy makes more likely the introduction of a framework that has greater tolerance for high debt burdens, it said.

---

Two days of testimony before congress by Fed Chair Jerome Powell has left JP Morgan's Fed rate rise outlook in place, bank economist Michael Feroli wrote.

"We didn't hear anything in the two days of testimony to change our outlook for Fed policy and we continue to look for the Committee to hike at each meeting this year," Feroli wrote.

"In terms of the risks to that view, the Ukraine invasion might shade risks to the downside," he said. For now, the bank expects the Fed to look through higher energy prices caused by the war but said if they continue it could reduce Fed rate rises in the future if those increases weigh on the job market by depressing economic activity.

---

Market uncertainty ahead of turmoil in Ukraine sparked a U.K. exodus from retail funds in January, data shows. U.K. investors pulled GBP642 million from retail funds during the month, the first such outflows since March 2020, figures from the Investment Association cited by Hargreaves Lansdown shows.

Equity funds faced outflows of GBP1.3 billion, driven partly by outflows of GBP1.6 billion from U.K equity funds and GBP719 million from North American equity funds, offset slightly by inflows to global funds.

Overall retail funds under management declined to GBP1.51 trillion from GBP1.59 trillion. "Our clients on the whole are taking a defensive approach, diversifying portfolios with gold, cash and total return funds--prioritizing capital preservation in times of uncertainty," HL said.

ECB is likely to be more cautious about tightening policy next week, read the analysts' comments here .

Forex:

Safe-haven assets such as USD and JPY rose in the morning Asian session after Ukraine's foreign minister said on Twitter that Russian troops were shelling Europe's largest nuclear power plant in the southern city of Enerhodar.

Owing to the Russia-Ukraine war, investors have sought safety in USD Index, JPY and CHF, while EUR has suffered the most from geographical proximity and negative spillover from widening sanctions on Russia, DBS Research said.

---

Oil prices are likely to be the single most important driver for the euro in coming weeks, TD Securities said. The euro has weakened as oil prices rise on fears over supply disruptions resulting from Russia's invasion of Ukraine, TD Securities analysts said.

Eurozone economic growth expectations have started to weaken relative to the G-10 due to high energy prices, they said.

That means oil prices are key to the euro's performance in the weeks ahead, they said. "Another 10% price increase pushes EUR/USD below 1.10, for instance."

---

Corpay's Karl Schamotta notes US unemployment claims fell last week and he sees tomorrow's nonfarm payrolls report showing an increase of 420,000 jobs, but added moves in commodity prices are dominating market focus as traders "self-sanction," avoiding Russian oil, wheat and other cargoes.

"With the US most economically and geographically insulated, real yield differentials are tilting in the dollar's favor, and the greenback is rising against all rivals," the chief market strategist said.

Bonds:

The Treasury 10-year yield was down 5bps at 1.7974%.

Prior to the attack on the nuclear plant, Treasury yields mostly stabilized Thursday as investors assessed Fed Powell's testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.

"The Russian invasion of Ukraine has upended forecasts and clouded the outlook, making most backward-looking data particularly stale," said JPMorgan Chase & Co .'s Joseph Lupton and Olya Borichevska. "Nevertheless, the underlying health of the global economy ahead of the latest shock is important for gauging both the resilience through the shock and the potential rebound as the shock abates."

"Together, strengthening growth and firming inflation underscore the need for central banks to begin removing their emergency policy settings that have been in place since the pandemic. This is a powerful signal that needs to be weighed against the new Russian shock."

Energy:

Oil climbed in the early Asian session on supply concerns driven by the intensifying Russia-Ukraine war. Oil-price gains linked to actual and perceived disruptions to Russian oil exports should more than offset any fall in prices from potentially more Iranian crude oil supply, CBA said.

There are hopes that a revival of the 2015 nuclear accord with Iran is imminent, which could bring 1 million-1.3 million barrels a day of oil production back online in six months, CBA noted.

Metals:

Gold climbs in early Asia trade as Russia's war on Ukraine continues to boost safe-haven demand for the precious metal. Uncertainty over the war impact is hitting investor sentiment hard, which has given underlying support for the precious metal, Oanda said. Spot gold has gained about 3.2% so far this week.

---

Copper inventories look set to be depleted, Goldman Sachs said, pointing out that a significant copper deficit of 297,000 tons last year could likely be followed by another deficit of 197,000 tons this year. There could be further volumes lost due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, placing upward pressure on prices of the industrial metal, it added.

"We believe that in an environment of extremely tight fundamentals, current investor positioning is surprisingly limited and therefore we see no overhang for fresh longs," Goldman said. It reiterated its recommendation to go long on December 2023 LME copper, and on the December 2022/December 2023 spread.

---

Aluminum and nickel futures continued to rise as fears of supply disruption persist, amid the continued pullback of big corporations doing business with Russia, ANZ said.

Alcoa , the largest aluminum producer in the U.S. had said it will stop selling products to Russian companies and halt purchase of raw materials from the country, ANZ noted.

The three-month forward LME aluminum contract rose 2.6% to $3,812.50 a metric ton while the three-month forward nickel contract climbed 2.5% to $27,565.00 a ton.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Ukraine Nuclear Power Plant Fire Raises Fears, Calls for Cease-Fire in Area

Ukrainian officials said Russian shelling caused a fire at a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, prompting concern from the international community about a nuclear disaster and renewed fears about Moscow's tactics as it continues its advance on the country.

In Kyiv, Ukrainian officials told the International Atomic Energy Agency that the fire that broke out at the facility didn't affect essential equipment, the agency said, lessening initial concerns that the shelling damaged a reactor. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a video posted on social media that Russia's actions show that "Europe needs to wake up."

   
 
 
New York Fed 's Williams Supports March Rate Rise Despite Uncertain Outlook

Federal Reserve Bank of New York President John Williams said Thursday he believes an interest rate increase this month is likely and that the U.S. central bank has the will and space to raise rates to lower inflation if price pressures don't ease.

4 Mar 2022 00:21 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Fall as Russia -2-

"We're absolutely committed to bringing inflation back to 2% and taking the actions necessary to do that," Mr. Williams said in a virtual appearance.

   
 
 
Russia-Ukraine war fuels 'biggest supply shock to global grain markets' in living memory

Wheat futures have surged by nearly a third over the past four days, on track for the biggest weekly rise since at least 1959 as Russia's invasion of Ukraine crimps exports of the crucial food grain and stokes global inflation fears.

Soft red winter wheat for May delivery W00 WK22 on the Chicago Board of Trade jumped by its expanded, 75-cent daily limit Thursday, a gain of 7.1% to lock at $11.34 a bushel, its highest since March 2008. That leaves wheat up 31.9% in the week to date. If it holds, that would be its strongest weekly rise since at least July 1959, based on available FactSet data.

   
 
 
Some Russian Bond Trading Defrosts as Investors Hunt for Deals

The freeze that Western sanctions put on Russian bond markets is starting to thaw despite the looming risk of the country's first potential default in over two decades.

Resumption of trading is crucial for pension funds, insurers and money managers that are struggling to divest their Russian securities because most transactions halted when sanctions were imposed. The banks and clearinghouses that intermediate trading have resumed some activity as they try to balance their client's needs against the risk of running afoul of current or future sanctions.

   
 
 
Bank of Canada 's Tiff Macklem Says He Is Prepared to Raise Rates Quickly

OTTAWA-Bank of Canada Gov. Tiff Macklem said he is ready to aggressively push interest rates upward to damp spending growth and keep inflation expectations anchored.

"There is certainly considerable space to raise interest rates over the course of the year," Mr. Macklem said Thursday, following a speech to a Toronto audience in which he elaborated on the central bank's decision this week to raise its policy rate by a quarter-percentage point, to 0.5%.

   
 
 
U.S. Jobless Claims Fell to 215,000, Remaining Near Historic Lows

New applications for unemployment benefits edged lower and remained near historically low levels as the labor market stays tight following a decline in Covid-19 cases.

Initial jobless claims, a proxy for layoffs, fell by 18,000 to a seasonally-adjusted 215,000 for the week ended Feb. 26, down from the revised 233,000 the week before, the Labor Department said Thursday. The four-week average, which smooths out volatility, fell to 230,500.

   
 
 
How Bitcoin and a Crypto Exchange Became Part of Ukraine's War Effort

The founder of Ukraine's largest cryptocurrency exchange, Kuna, has been sleeping only a few hours a day since Russia invaded his country.

Trading of cryptocurrencies on Kuna has jumped since the war began. The surge is, in part, a consequence of strict capital controls implemented by the Ukrainian central bank: limits on ATM withdrawals, restrictions on the country's official electronic-currency system and suspension of the foreign-exchange market. But cryptocurrency and Kuna are also providing a vehicle for outsiders to donate to Ukraine, raising funds for the government and relief efforts.

   
 
 
ArcelorMittal Closes Giant Ukrainian Steel Plant as War Worsens

A giant Ukrainian steel mill owned by ArcelorMittal SA closed on Thursday, shutting one the country's largest pieces of industry after days of holding out as other foreign companies retreated in the face of Russia's onslaught.

Ukrainian industry has been hit hard by the Russian invasion, with car-part manufacturers, breweries, an alumina refinery and other foreign businesses halting production.

   
 
 
French President Emmanuel Macron Declares Run for Re-Election

PARIS-French President Emmanuel Macron confirmed just ahead of the deadline that he plans to run for re-election next month, officially kicking off a campaign that the war in Ukraine has overshadowed.

Mr. Macron announced his candidacy in a letter published by several regional newspapers on Thursday, an unusually low-key way to join a campaign that his opponents have been urging him to enter for weeks. Under French election law, presidential candidates have had declare they are running by the end of the day on Friday.

   
 
 
Will Sanctions Force Putin to Back Down in Ukraine? History Suggests It's Unlikely

Western nations have in the past week imposed the most sweeping economic sanctions against a major country in recent decades, moves that are likely to cripple the Russian economy and sharply raise the costs of the country's invasion of Ukraine.

Whether it will be enough to cause Russian President Vladimir Putin to withdraw his troops from Ukraine, or even weaken his hold on power, however, is far less likely, according to experts on sanctions.

   
 
 
Ukraine Leans on Armed Turkish Drones, Western Missiles to Thwart Russian Invasion

Days after Russian forces crossed into northern Ukraine, a Turkish-made drone fired a missile at a mobile air-defense system the invading forces had parked on the side of a road. The truck exploded, producing a black plume that also consumed five other military vehicles.

Back at their base, a room full of Ukrainian drone operators erupted in applause. "Whoa!"

   
 
 
Belarus Sovereign Bonds Collapse Following U.S., EU Sanctions

The sovereign bonds backed by Belarus have collapsed over the past week due to the nation's entanglement with Russia, which is using Belarusian territory as a staging ground for its invasion of Ukraine.

One of Belarus's bonds, a $600 million dollar-denominated note due 2027, changed hands at 14 cents on the dollar on Thursday, according to Tradeweb , down from around 87 cents on the dollar before the invasion.

   
 
 
A Global Hunt for Russian Oligarchs' Yachts Has Begun

Russia's richest men are on the run amid a global dragnet Western governments have cast to ensnare their yachts, villas, jets and bank accounts.

In recent days, French authorities have detained a handful of ships subject to new sanctions, including a 280-foot yacht, the Amore Vero, "True Love" in Italian. They say it is owned by Igor Sechin , the sanctioned chief executive of Russian oil producer Rosneft and close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin . They swooped in during the night as the vessel was making what they described as preparations to leave port in a hurry.

   
 
 
Ukraine War Could Accelerate Cryptocurrency Regulation -- Analysis

The use of cryptocurrencies to bypass sanctions against Russia could accelerate regulation of the industry, say analysts.

Western nations have imposed financial sanctions against Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine. Lawmakers in the U.S., the EU and the U.K. have raised concerns that cryptocurrencies are being used to circumvent these sanctions by allowing the continued movement of money to and from Russia.

   
 
 
Amazon Moves to Force FTC Antitrust Decision on MGM Deal

Amazon.com Inc . has given the Federal Trade Commission a fast-approaching deadline to deliver a verdict on its proposed $6.5 billion acquisition of the MGM movie and television studio, a move that could make it difficult for the agency to challenge the deal before the tech giant completes it.

Amazon recently certified to the FTC that it had provided all the information requested by antitrust investigators, according to people familiar with the matter. That certification triggered a ticking clock for the FTC that expires in mid-March, the people said. If the commission doesn't file a legal challenge before the deadline, Amazon could be free to consummate the deal.

   
 
 
Major Freight Forwarders Suspend Russia Services

Several of the world's largest freight forwarders have suspended services to Russia, citing growing restrictions from shipping lines and air carriers that are cutting off the country's access to global trade lanes over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.

Switzerland-based Kuehne + Nagel International AG and Germany's DB Schenker both said in customer advisories they are halting deliveries to and from Russia by air, land and sea. Denmark-based DSV A/S and France's Geodis said they were also suspending deliveries to Moscow ally Belarus.

   
 
 
Microsoft , SpaceX , Airbnb and Others Offer Ukraine Assistance

Western companies including Microsoft Corp ., GlaxoSmithKline PLC and SpaceX are offering assistance to Ukraine, helping guard against cyberattacks, providing painkillers and setting up internet services amid Russia's continuing assault.

Some of the efforts go beyond contributing humanitarian assistance or extending financial support to aid groups, with broader moves that could complicate companies' relationships with Russia or risk reputational damage should the endeavors fail.

   
 
 
Write to sarka.halas@wsj.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Friday

00:01/UK: Jan Zoopla House Price Index

00:01/UK: Feb BRC-Sensormatic IQ Footfall Monitor

07:00/SWE: 4Q Balance of Payments

07:00/GER: Jan Foreign Trade

07:45/FRA: Jan Industrial production index

08:00/SVK: Jan Internal trade, incl Wholesale & Retail

08:00/AUT: 4Q GDP

08:00/HUN: Jan Preliminary Industrial Production

09:00/ITA: 4Q GDP

09:00/UK: Feb UK monthly car registrations figures

09:30/UK: Feb CIPS / Markit Construction PMI

09:30/UK: 4Q Bank of England external business stats

10:00/EU: Jan Retail trade

10:00/LUX: Feb CPI

10:00/GRE: 4Q Provisional GDP

10:00/CRO: Jan Industrial Production Volume Index

11:00/IRL: Feb Irish Live Register latest monthly figures

11:00/IRL: 4Q GDP

11:00/IRL: 4Q Balance of Payments

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 04, 2022 00:21 ET (05:21 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220304ei3400092


World news
Zelenskiy asks United Nations’ top court to issue emergency ruling requiring Moscow to stop its attacks – as it happened
Samantha Lock (now) Sam Levin , Jessica Murray and Tom Ambrose (earlier)
25421 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日 04:32 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
Hopes of establishing a humanitarian corridor out of besieged city of Mariupol dashed for second day running. This blog is now closed. Follow our live coverage of the Russian invasion here.Russia-Ukraine war latest news – live updates

block-time published-time 4.32am GMT

Thanks for following our live coverage of the Ukraine crisis. We will be moving across to start a new live blog where you can follow all the latest developments below.

Related: Russia-Ukraine war: Zelenskiy to ‘punish atrocities’ as family dies trying to evacuate Irpin – live[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/07/ukraine-news-russia-war-latest-news-vladimir-putin-zelenskiy-kyiv-russian-invasion-civilian-attacks-irpin-ceasefire-live-updates]

block-time published-time 4.21am GMT

South Korea has toughened its financial sanctions against Russia by banning transactions with Russia’s central bank, joining further global efforts to isolate Russia over its invasion into Ukraine, Reuters reports.

South Korea’s foreign ministry said it has decided to immobilise any assets held by the Russian central bank in the won and to sever transactions with Russia’s central bank, following similar moves by the United States and the European Union.

The new penalties on Russia follows Seoul’s March 1 decision to ban transactions with seven major Russian banks and their affiliates, including Sberbank.

South Korea’s finance ministry will release details including the scope of further sanctions later on Monday, which “will be in line with U.S. financial sanctions,” a finance ministry official said.

Details of any Russian central bank assets held in won cannot be disclosed without the holder’s consent, the official said.

A currency trader walks near the screen showing the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollar and South Korean. Photograph: Lee Jin-man/AP

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.28am GMT

block-time published-time 4.13am GMT

Australian PM calls on China to stop Russia

China must act on its declarations of promoting world peace and join the effort to stop Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Australia’s prime minister said on Monday, warning that the world was in danger of being reshaped by an “arc of autocracy”.

Reuters reports that Scott Morrison also suggested in a wide-ranging speech that Russia’s invasion was not going according to the plan of its leader, Vladimir Putin, who he said had “overestimated the capacity of how he might be able to prosecute this illegal war”.

“China has long claimed to have a role as one of the major powers in the world and to be a contributor to global peace and stability. No country will have a bigger impact on concluding this terrible war in Ukraine than China,” Morrison said in response to a question after a speech at the Lowy Institute think tank.

“I was listening for the voice of the Chinese government when it came to condemning the actions of Russia and there was a chilling silence,” he said.

China has declined to call the Russian attack on Ukraine an “invasion” while asking western countries to respect Russia’s “legitimate security concerns”. It has called for a solution to the crisis through negotiations.

block-time published-time 4.02am GMT

New Zealand brings in Russia Sanctions Bill

Eva Corlett in Wellington reports that New Zealand will pass a law this week that will significantly ramp up its sanctions against Russia, including preventing those sanctioned from moving assets to New Zealand and stopping Russian super-yachts from entering the waters.

The Russia Sanctions Bill is the first law of its kind in New Zealand, and is the country’s next step in its response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, prime minister Jacinda Ardern said on Monday afternoon.

“A Bill of this nature has never been brought before our Parliament, but with Russia vetoing UN sanctions we must act ourselves to support Ukraine and our partners in opposition to this invasion,” the prime minister said.

The country initially responded to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine with targeted travel bans, prohibiting exports to the military, and suspending bilateral foreign ministry consultations.

Ardern said: “We have said throughout our response that no options were off the table, and that we’d continue to do more in line with New Zealand’s unequivocal opposition to Russia’s actions. Despite international condemnation and the resilience and resistance of the Ukrainian people, Russia’s assault continues, and so must our pressure.”

The new sanctions will enable the government to freeze assets located in New Zealand, and prevent those sanctioned from moving assets to the country, or using its financial system as “a back door to get around sanctions” imposed by other countries, Ardern said. The new law will also allow for sanctions to be imposed on states that are complicit with Russia, such as Belarus.

Sanctions could also apply to trade, and financial institutions as well as stopping the likes of Russian super yachts, ships and aircraft from entering New Zealand waters or airspace.

New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. Photograph: Ross Giblin/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.15am GMT

block-time published-time 3.55am GMT

The British front pages today are filled with stories of civilians desperately trying to find safety as Russian attacks intensify.

enltrGUARDIAN: Plea for safe passage after second ceasefire disaster #TomorrowsPapersToday[https://twitter.com/hashtag/TomorrowsPapersToday?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/VucdhAqf4o[https://t.co/VucdhAqf4o]

— Neil Henderson (@hendopolis) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/hendopolis/status/1500595119933870085?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrMIRROR. Save Them #TomorrowsPapersToday[https://twitter.com/hashtag/TomorrowsPapersToday?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/3LKhtyj0Om[https://t.co/3LKhtyj0Om]

— Neil Henderson (@hendopolis) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/hendopolis/status/1500598763370524679?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrTHE SUN: Running for their lives #TomorrowsPapersToday[https://twitter.com/hashtag/TomorrowsPapersToday?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/XnoLiFVrlt[https://t.co/XnoLiFVrlt]

— Neil Henderson (@hendopolis) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/hendopolis/status/1500601096074665994?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrTIMES: Families flee for their lives #TomorrowsPapersToday[https://twitter.com/hashtag/TomorrowsPapersToday?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/s5xz6DndUa[https://t.co/s5xz6DndUa]

— Neil Henderson (@hendopolis) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/hendopolis/status/1500601317311533060?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 3.52am GMT

Oil prices soared to a near 14-year high while equity markets plunged on Monday as investors grew increasingly fearful about the impact of the Ukraine war on the global economy.

Experts warned of a period of stagflation with the spike in crude likely to light a fire under already high inflation.

Brent crude at one point rocketed almost 18% to $139.13 in Asia trade- a level not seen since mid-2008 - after US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the White House and allies were in talks about banning imports from Russia, according to figures cited by Agence France-Presse.

block-time published-time 3.29am GMT

The Ukrainian military is reporting that Russia is planning on storming the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.

Russian troops have “began to accumulate resources to storm Kyiv,” according to a report[https://www.facebook.com/GeneralStaff.ua/posts/266469205666165] recently released by the general staff of the armed forces of Ukraine.

In city of Irpin on the western outskirts of Kyiv, Russian troops are making an advance towards the capital with tank and motorised infantry units as well as attempting to reach the eastern outskirts of Kyiv through the districts of Brovarsky and Boryspil, the military says.

Ukrainian officials also noted Russian forces are attempting to establish control over the cities of Chernihiv and Sumy but have “suffered significant losses” and needed to redeploy additional forces to “replenish manpower and equipment”.

Local residents evacuate as Russian forces advance and continue to bombard the town with artillery, in Irpin, Ukraine. Photograph: Marcus Yam/LOS ANGELES TIMES/REX/Shutterstock

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.55am GMT

block-time published-time 3.22am GMT

The US has provided Ukraine’s president Zelenskiy with encrypted communications equipment and a direct line with US president Joe Biden, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/us/politics/us-ukraine-weapons.html?referringSource=articleShare] reports.

According to the Times, intelligence officials in Washington and Germany are sending satellite photographs and electronic intercepts of Russian military units to Ukrainian military units “within an hour or two”.

“As he tries to stay out of the hands of Russian forces in Kyiv, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy of Ukraine travels with encrypted communications equipment, provided by the Americans, that can put him into a secure call with President Biden,” the publication writes.

It was through this equipment that Zelenskiy was able to make a 35-minute call with his American counterpart on Saturday night.

Commuters look at a graffiti by Italian urban artist ‘TVBoy’, Salvatore Benintende, titled ‘Stop The Madness’ depicting Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky holding a Stop sign in the national colors in protest to the ongoing Russian attacks. Photograph: Matthias Oesterle/REX/Shutterstock

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.30am GMT

block-time published-time 2.58am GMT

US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi has said the chamber is “exploring” legislation to ban imports of Russian oil and that Congress intends to enact this week $10 billion in aid for Ukraine.

A letter[https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/3622] published to the speaker of the house official website reads:

The Biden Administration has requested $10 billion in humanitarian, military and economic support for Ukraine.

The Congress intends to enact this emergency funding this week as part of our omnibus government funding legislation. And an urgent request from President Zelensky is to help ensure air support for the Ukrainian armed forces.

In addition, the House is currently exploring strong legislation that will further isolate Russia from the global economy.

Our bill would ban the import of Russian oil and energy products into the United States, repeal normal trade relations with Russia and Belarus, and take the first step to deny Russia access to the World Trade Organization. We would also empower the Executive branch to raise tariffs on Russian imports.”

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi speaking at her weekly press conference. Photograph: Michael Brochstein/SOPA Images/REX/Shutterstock

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.26am GMT

block-time published-time 2.29am GMT

Russian gymnast Ivan Kuliak, who sported an insignia linked to the invasion of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2022/mar/07/shocking-behaviour-russian-gymnast-shows-z-symbol-on-podium-next-to-ukrainian-winner] on a medals podium alongside a Ukrainian competitor, has been called out for his “shocking behaviour”.

Kuliak’s shirt had the letter “Z” prominently placed as he stood next to Ukraine’s Kovtun Illia, the gold medallist at a Gymnastics[https://www.theguardian.com/sport/gymnastics] World Cup event in Doha.

The “Z” has been seen daubed on Russian tanks and vehicles in Ukraine and has come to symbolise support for the invasion.

Ivan Kuliak wore a ‘Z’ taped across the front of his shirt, a symbol that has come to symbolise support for the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Photograph: Claro Sports

Related: ‘Shocking behaviour’: Russian gymnast shows ‘Z’ symbol on podium next to Ukrainian winner[https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2022/mar/07/shocking-behaviour-russian-gymnast-shows-z-symbol-on-podium-next-to-ukrainian-winner]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.45am GMT

block-time published-time 2.23am GMT

Russian forces made 'minimal ground advances', British intelligence says

The UK’s ministry of defence has just released its latest intelligence report[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500598902042542080], speculating that Russian forces made “minimal ground advances” over the weekend.

Russian forces probably made minimal ground advances over the weekend. It is highly unlikely that Russia has successfully achieved its planned objectives to date.”

The ministry notes a “high level of Russian air and artillery strikes” have continued to hit military and civilian sites in Ukrainian cities over the past 24 hours.

“Recent strikes have targeted Kharkiv, Mykolaiv and Chernihiv, and been particularly heavy in Mariupol,” the report added.

enltrLatest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 06 March 2022

Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/eiocXaCcoT[https://t.co/eiocXaCcoT]

???? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ???? pic.twitter.com/MOPCAhea6i[https://t.co/MOPCAhea6i]

— Ministry of Defence ???? (@DefenceHQ) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500598902042542080?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 2.06am GMT

Interim summary

Here is a quick rundown of what you may have missed over the past few hours. For an even more detailed account you can view our earlier summary here[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?page=with:block-62252e818f08d07f5d1c9b0f#block-62252e818f08d07f5d1c9b0f].

* Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskiy delivered an impassioned address to his nation on Sunday night, warning Russian troops he will punish those who committed atrocities in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] while the “only quiet place” that awaits them is the grave. “We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will punish everyone who committed atrocities in this war on our land,” he said.

* Zelenskiy also spoke of the death of a family attempting to flee the Ukrainian city of Irpin, near Kyiv in northern Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine], in an emotional plea to honour humanitarian corridors that Russian forces appear to have ignored.

* The Ukrainian president criticised western leaders for failing to respond to the Russian defence ministry’s announcement that it would strike Ukraine’s military-industrial complex. “I didn’t hear even a single world leader react to this. The audacity of the aggressor is a clear signal to the west that the sanctions imposed on Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] are not sufficient,” he said.

* Two major American accounting firms, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers, have also announced they will stop doing business in Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia].

* A plane carrying Russian diplomats expelled by the United States has left New York ’s John F Kennedy International Airport en route to Moscow about 7.30pm EST, according to Flight Radar24 data[https://www.flightradar24.com/RSD088/2b0cbcda].

* Moscow is recruiting Syrians to fight in Ukraine, according to US officials who spoke with the Wall Street Journal.[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russia-recruiting-syrians-for-urban-combat-in-ukraine-u-s-officials-say-11646606234]

* The US does not believe a Russian amphibious assault in or near the Ukrainian city of Odesa is imminent, a senior US defence official said, according to Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/us-does-not-see-imminent-russian-amphibious-assault-odessa-us-official-2022-03-06/]. There have been growing concerns about a possible attack on the city.

* Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] has instructed all state-owned websites and services to switch to the Russian domain name system by 11 March, according to Russian state media outlets. Many fear the move is a sign that Russia is beginning active preparations for disconnection from the global internet.

* Meanwhile, hacking collective Anonymous claimed to have hacked into the Russian streaming services Wink and Ivi and live TV channels Russia 24, Channel One, Moscow 24 to broadcast footage from Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

* Ukraine will ask the United Nations ’ top court on Monday to issue an emergency ruling requiring Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] to stop its invasion, arguing that Moscow’s justification for the attack is based on a faulty interpretation of genocide law, Reuters reports.

* British prime minister Boris Johnson has pledged to send more defensive equipment and $100m to Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] to hold off Russian troops and mitigate financial pressures facing the country, but was accused of moving too slowly and timidly to clamp down on oligarchs’ dirty money in the UK.

A view of damaged School 116 in Petrovsko after a shelling, in the pro-Russian separatists-controlled Donetsk, Ukraine. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.33am GMT

block-time published-time 1.57am GMT

A plane carrying Russian diplomats expelled by the United States has left New York ’s John F Kennedy International Airport en route to Moscow about 7.30pm EST, according to Flight Radar24 data[https://www.flightradar24.com/RSD088/2b0cbcda].

“The flight carrying Russian government personnel expelled by the United States has just departed New York for Moscow,” the flight tracking service said.

Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova also confirmed on her Telegram channel on Saturday that the diplomats would be returning to Russia.

“This plane will return to their homeland [the] Russian diplomats, whom the US Government has declared persona non grata,” she said.

A statement from the US Mission to the UN in late February called the 12 Russian diplomats “intelligence operatives... who have abused their privileges of residency in the US by engaging in espionage activities that are adverse to our national security.”

enltrThe flight carrying Russian government personnel expelled by the United States has just departed New York for Moscow. https://t.co/I2TMsV0nKp[https://t.co/I2TMsV0nKp] pic.twitter.com/vgMRvXCbnk[https://t.co/vgMRvXCbnk]

— Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) March 7, 2022[https://twitter.com/flightradar24/status/1500633029995384832?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 1.50am GMT

As the exodus of western businesses to leave Russia continues, two major American accounting firms, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers, have also announced they will stop doing business in Russia.

In a statement, KPMG International said it was cutting ties with about 4,500 employees in Russia and Belarus. “We believe we have a responsibility, along with other global businesses, to respond to the Russian government’s ongoing military attack on Ukraine.”

PricewaterhouseCoopers also said in a press release[https://www.pwc.ru/en/press-center/2022/o-planakh-pwc-v-rossii.html] that PwC Russia, which has about 3,700 employees across 11 cities, would leave the network of member firms but “continue cooperation.”

Meanwhile, Deloitte said the firm “unequivocally” stood by the people of Ukraine and was reviewing its Russian business but cited its ongoing “professional obligations”.

“Everyone knows the game is up in terms of being able to retain a network firm in Russia,” an insider at one Big Four firm told the Financial Times. [https://www.ft.com/content/be3d59a3-d9b2-4303-946d-d61d32c2ff08]

The logo of KPMG. Photograph: Charles Platiau/Reuters

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.15am GMT

block-time published-time 1.44am GMT

Zelenskiy spoke of the death of a family attempting to flee the Ukrainian city of Irpin, near Kyiv in northern Ukraine, in an emotional plea to honour humanitarian corridors that Russian forces appear to have ignored.

There was a lot of talk about humanitarian corridors. There were talks every day about the opportunity for people to leave the cities...

And we heard the promise that there would be humanitarian corridors. But there are no humanitarian corridors.

Instead of humanitarian corridors, they can only make bloody ones.

A family was killed in Irpin today. A man, a woman and two children. Right on the road when they were just trying to get out of town to escape. The whole family.

How many such families have died in Ukraine?”

Ukrainian soldiers help people trying to leave the city amid the collapsed structures and debris on March 6, 2022 in Irpin, Ukraine. Photograph: Dia Images/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.19am GMT

block-time published-time 1.31am GMT

Moscow is recruiting Syrians to fight in Ukraine, according to US officials who spoke with the Wall Street Journal. [https://www.wsj.com/articles/russia-recruiting-syrians-for-urban-combat-in-ukraine-u-s-officials-say-11646606234]

The publication cites four American officials who believe Russia has in recent days been recruiting fighters from Syria in the hope that their expertise in urban combat can help take Kyiv and deal a devastating blow to the Ukraine government.

Russia has been operating inside Syria since formally entering the country’s civil war in 2015.

block-time published-time 1.21am GMT

When Russian state TV announced the invasion of Ukraine last week, it did not use the words “attack”, “invasion” or “war”. Instead it reported on a “special military operation” in the neighbouring country designed to liberate a nation that would welcome Russia’s forces to free it from fascism.

The Guardian’s Moscow correspondent, Andrew Roth, provides an insight as to what Russians are being told about the war in Ukraine. He tells Michael Safi that this initial distortion of the facts did not last the week. Instead, as the war grew more intensive and Russian forces met with fierce resistance, there was a subtle change in what Russians were told was going on. Yes, casualties were being taken, major cities were being targeted, but it was a necessary sanction against a government propped up by an imperialist west, determined to humiliate Russia.

Now, as the attacks get increasingly deadly and cities are transformed by bombing campaigns, Russian propagandists are having to adapt their message again. Meanwhile, an economic crunch unlike any other most Russians have faced before is hitting them in their wallets, and many are looking for who’s to blame. As Andrew Roth explains, it’s not necessarily their own government led by Vladimir Putin.

Related: What Russians are being told about the war in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/audio/2022/mar/07/what-russians-are-being-told-about-the-war-in-ukraine]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.26am GMT

block-time published-time 1.17am GMT

Powerful snippets from Zelenskiy’s national address can be viewed in the video below.

The Ukrainian president called on the west to do more as he spoke of the destruction across Ukraine and the suffering faced by his people.

“We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will punish everyone who committed atrocities in this war on our land.”

block-time published-time 1.12am GMT

'We will find every bastard', Zelenskiy warns

Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskiy delivered an impassioned nightly address to his nation, warning Russian troops he will punish those who committed atrocities in Ukraine while the “only quiet place” that awaits them is the grave.

“Today is Forgiveness Sunday. But we will not forgive hundreds and hundreds of victims. Thousands and thousands of sufferings. And God will not forgive. Not today. Not tomorrow. Never. And instead of Forgiveness, there will be a Day of Judgment,” Zelenskiy said[https://www.facebook.com/zelenskiy.official/posts/3025418967708459].

An excerpt of his speech, as translated by Ukrainian broadcaster Ukrinform[https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/3422294-president-volodymyr-zelenskys-address-on-situation-in-ukraine.html], reads:

We will not forgive the destroyed houses. We will not forgive the missile that our air defence shot down over Okhmatdyt today. And more than five hundred other such missiles that hit our land. All over Ukraine.. hit our people and children.

We will not forgive the shooting of unarmed people. Destruction of our infrastructure.

We will not forgive.

Hundreds and hundreds of victims. Thousands and thousands of sufferings.

And God will not forgive. Not today. Not tomorrow. Never.

And instead of Forgiveness, there will be a Day of Judgment. I’m sure of it.”

Zelenskiy warned Russian forces they would face “a day of judgement” for the “deliberate murder” inflicted on his country.

How many such families have died in Ukraine?

We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will punish everyone who committed atrocities in this war on our land.

We will find every bastard who shot at our cities, our people, who bombed our land, who launched rockets.

There will be no quiet place on this earth for you. Except for the grave.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.13am GMT

block-time published-time 12.35am GMT

Russia has instructed all state-owned websites and services to switch to the Russian domain name system by 11 March, according to Russian state media outlets.

“This is necessary to protect resources from cyber attacks and the possibility of disconnection from the outside,” the Kommersant[https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/5249500] Russian newspaper reports.

Citing the ministry of digital development, the publication said there are no plans to disconnect Russia from the global internet.

The ministry of digital development told Kommersant that these measures are necessary to protect against cyberattacks:

We are preparing for various scenarios to ensure that Russian resources are available to citizens. The telegram for government agencies outlines a set of simple cyber hygiene recommendations that will help to organise work more effectively to protect our resources from malicious traffic, keep services running and control over domain names.”

Russia managed to disconnect itself from the global internet during tests in June and July last year, the RBC media group reported at the time, citing documents from the working group tasked with improving Russia’s internet security, according to Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/technology/russia-disconnected-global-internet-tests-rbc-daily-2021-07-22/].

Russia adopted legislation, known as the “sovereign internet” law, in late 2019 that seeks to shield the country from being cut off from foreign infrastructure, in answer to what Russia called the “aggressive nature” of the United States’ national cyber security strategy.

The move would strengthen the Russian government’s oversight of cyberspace.

enltr #Russia[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Russia?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] began active preparations for disconnection from the global Internet

No later than March 11, all servers and domains must be transferred to the #Russian[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Russian?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] zone. In addition, detailed data on the network infrastructure of the sites is being collected. pic.twitter.com/wOCdRqOJej[https://t.co/wOCdRqOJej]

— NEXTA (@nexta_tv) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/nexta_tv/status/1500553480548892679?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 12.16am GMT

Cyber resistance against Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues, with hacking collective Anonymous claiming to have hacked into the Russian streaming services Wink and Ivi and live TV channels Russia 24, Channel One, Moscow 24 to broadcast footage from Ukraine.

The group added that activists are also broadcasting troll faces on Russian military radio.

enltrThe hacking collective #Anonymous[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Anonymous?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] hacked into the Russian streaming services Wink and Ivi (like Netflix) and live TV channels Russia 24, Channel One, Moscow 24 to broadcast war footage from Ukraine [today] pic.twitter.com/hzqcXT1xRU[https://t.co/hzqcXT1xRU]

— Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/YourAnonNews/status/1500613013510008836?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrActivists are broadcasting troll faces on Russian military radio pic.twitter.com/lovN3WNVa2[https://t.co/lovN3WNVa2]

— Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/YourAnonNews/status/1500614084965847046?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 12.01am GMT

Russian forces stepped up overnight shelling of Ukrainian cities in the centre, north and south of the country on Sunday night, presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovich has said.

“The latest wave of missile strikes came as darkness fell,” he told a Ukrainian broadcaster.

Arestovich said Ukraine’s second-largest city of Kharkiv in the north-east was still battling to fend off a Russian attack while all regions of Chernihiv in the north were coming under missile attack.

The official described a “catastrophic” situation in the Kyiv suburbs of Bucha, Hostomel and Irpin, where efforts to evacuate residents on Sunday failed. He said the government was doing all it could to resume evacuations, the Associated Press reports.

A factory and a store burn after having been bombarded in Irpin. Photograph: Emilio Morenatti/AP Residents run for cover as they escape from Irpin after heavy shelling on the only escape route used by locals. Photograph: Carlos Barría/Reuters

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.08am GMT

block-time published-time 11.46pm GMT

Ukraine and Russia to face off at World Court over genocide claim

Ukraine will ask the United Nations ’ top court on Monday to issue an emergency ruling requiring Russia to stop its invasion, arguing that Moscow’s justification for the attack is based on a faulty interpretation of genocide law, Reuters reports.

Although the court’s rulings are binding and countries generally follow them, it has no direct means of enforcing them.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has said Russia’s “special military action” is needed “to protect people who have been subjected to bullying and genocide” - meaning those whose first or only language is Russian - in eastern Ukraine.

Ukraine’s suit argues that the claim of genocide is untrue, and in any case does not provide legal justification for invasion.

The case it has lodged at the World Court, officially known as the International Court of Justice (ICJ), centres on the interpretation of a 1948 treaty on the prevention of genocide, signed by both countries. The treaty names the ICJ as the forum for resolving disputes between signatories.

Last week, the executive board of the International Association of Genocide Scholars issued a statement saying that Putin was “misappropriating and misusing the term ‘genocide’”.

“There is absolutely no evidence that there is genocide going on in Ukraine,” the association’s president, Melanie O’Brien, told Reuters.

The hearings are set to start at 10am (9am GMT) with Ukraine presenting its case. Russia is due to respond on Tuesday.

block-time published-time 11.44pm GMT

Hello it’s Samantha Lock with you as we continue to monitor the crisis unfolding in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

Russia’s war on its neighbour continues for its eleventh day and well into its second week. It is 1.40am in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] and the UN estimates more than 1.5 million people have fled the country to seek safety in neighbouring countries.

For any tips and feedback please contact me through Twitter[https://twitter.com/Samantha__Lock] or at samantha.lock@theguardian.com

Civilians cross the rubble of a damaged bridge in Irpin near Kyiv. Photograph: Oleksandr Ratushniak/EPA

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.12am GMT

block-time published-time 11.22pm GMT

The full story on Boris Johnson’s pledge to send more defensive equipment and aid to Ukraine:

Boris Johnson has pledged to send more defensive equipment and $100m to Ukraine to hold off Russian troops and mitigate financial pressures facing the country, but was accused of moving too slowly and timidly to clamp down on oligarchs’ dirty money in the UK.

Emergency legislation is due to be rushed through the House of Commons on Monday, intended to create a register of overseas ownership of UK land and property, reform unexplained wealth orders and make it easier to prosecute those involved in breaking sanctions.

The economic crime bill will be supported by opposition parties, but ministers were warned it would still give those suspected of money laundering a “get out of London free card” and contained loopholes that could let people disguise or liquidate their assets before the new powers come into effect.

Keir Starmer, the Labour leader, said he was frustrated ministers were “going slowly” and that there were “echoes of Afghanistan”, claiming the government “really only begins to get its act together and respond in the heat of the situation rather than preparing for it beforehand”.

Dominic Raab, the deputy prime minister, said on Sunday it could take months or even years for the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to be defeated in his ambition to conquer Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

Related: Johnson steps up Ukraine support but is accused of slowness on Russian dirty money[https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2022/mar/06/johnson-steps-up-ukraine-support-but-is-accused-of-slowness-on-russian-dirty-money]

block-time published-time 11.15pm GMT

Britain to provide $100m to Ukraine through the World Bank

Prime minister Boris Johnson’s office said Britain will provide $100 million to Ukraine (75.6 million pounds) through the World Bank, Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/uk/britain-pledges-100-mln-help-keep-ukrainian-state-running-2022-03-06/] :

The UK is seeking to keep core state functions running and mitigate financial pressures caused by Russia’s invasion, Johnson’s office said.

Britain has sought a central role in the international response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine by providing defensive military aid, arguing for tougher sanctions again the Kremlin and offering financial support.

Nevertheless, Johnson’s government has faced criticism that its sanctions have been too slow and its refugee programme underwhelming.

The latest round of cash, which is in addition to $290.95 million (220 million pounds) pledged already, could be used to pay public-sector workers in Ukraine or fund pension and social security payments, British authorities said.

The UK is also pushing new legislation on Monday[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?page=with:block-6225274b8f08d07f5d1c9acb#block-6225274b8f08d07f5d1c9acb] that aims to speed up the sanctions process.

block-time published-time 11.05pm GMT

In his evening video address[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?page=with:block-622532528f0885faa96ca899-pinned#block-622532528f0885faa96ca899-pinned], Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, also criticized western leaders for failing to respond to the Russian Defense Ministry’s announcement that it would strike Ukraine’s military-industrial complex and that employees of the plants should not show up to work, the AP reports. Zelenskiy said:

I didn’t hear even a single world leader react to this. The audacity of the aggressor is a clear signal to the west that the sanctions imposed on Russia are not sufficient...

Think about the sense of impunity of the occupiers that they can announce such planned atrocities.”

Zelsnkiy urged for a “tribunal” to hold accountable people who have committed atrocities.

The Russian Defense Ministry said earlier on Sunday that its forces were planning to strike Ukraine’s military-industrial complex with “precision weapons”, with ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov (in a statement carried by the state news agency Tass), saying, “We urge all personnel of Ukrainian defense industry plants … to leave the territory of their enterprises,” the AP reported.

More from Zelsnkiy’s speech, via CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/index.html] :

For tomorrow Russia has officially announced the shelling of our territory. Our enterprises of the defense complex. Most were built decades ago by the Soviet government, built in cities. And now they are in the middle of an ordinary urban environment. Thousands of people work there. Hundreds of thousands live nearby... This is murder. Deliberate murder.”

block-time published-time 10.49pm GMT

Here are some images from protests against the Russian invasion, from around the globe this weekend.

Santiago:

Demonstrators in Chile Photograph: Alberto Valdés/EPA

Cardiff:

Demonstration in Cardiff, Wales

Photograph: Matthew Horwood/Getty Images

Argentina:

enltrLIVE: Ukrainians in Argentina protest the conflict in Ukraine https://t.co/O68rI8d4BS[https://t.co/O68rI8d4BS]

— Reuters (@Reuters) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/Reuters/status/1500574890650337280?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

New York:

Protest in New York Photograph: Milo Hess/ZUMA Press Wire/REX/Shutterstock

Paris:

Demonstration in Paris Photograph: Jerome Gilles/NurPhoto/REX/Shutterstock

Mexico City:

Demonstrators in Mexico City. Photograph: Gustavo Graf Maldonado/Reuters

block-time published-time 10.24pm GMT

Zelenskiy: 'We will punish everyone who committed atrocities'

In an address this evening, Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy said, “We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will punish everyone who committed atrocities in this war.”

More quotes from his remarks:

enltr??Zelensky: "Today, a family of four, parents and two children, were killed in Irpin as they were trying to leave the city. We will not forgive. We will not forget."

— The Kyiv Independent (@KyivIndependent) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1500583540739694598?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltr??Zelensky: "The audacity of the aggressor is a clear signal for the West that the imposed sanctions aren’t enough."

"You can’t hide from this reality. You can’t hide from the new killings in Ukraine."

— The Kyiv Independent (@KyivIndependent) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1500582360093540360?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrWritten down like this Zelenskiy’s address tonight reads like a powerful poem. pic.twitter.com/R915iHzc0v[https://t.co/R915iHzc0v]

— Shaun Walker (@shaunwalker7) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/shaunwalker7/status/1500589274420420618?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 10.13pm GMT

US official says a Russian attack on Odesa does not appear imminent

The US does not believe a Russian amphibious assault in or near the Ukrainian city of Odesa is imminent, a senior US defence official said, according to Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/us-does-not-see-imminent-russian-amphibious-assault-odessa-us-official-2022-03-06/]. There have been growing concerns about a possible attack on the city:

The US official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, estimated that Russia had launched about 600 missiles since the start of the invasion and deployed into Ukraine about 95% of combat forces it had pre-staged outside of the country.

Russian forces continued to try to advance and isolate Kyiv, Kharkhiv and Chernihiv and were meeting “strong Ukrainian resistance”, the official said.

Earlier, Odesa’s mayor said, “I don’t know what kind of bastard you have to be to press the button to drop bombs on Odesa,” the Guardian’s Shaun Walker reported.

enltrOdessa mayor Gennady Trukhanov, generally known as pro-Russian, has come down firmly on the side of Kyiv in recent days.

“I don’t know what kind of bastard you have to be to press the button to drop bombs on Odessa” pic.twitter.com/NtwNAIGTas[https://t.co/NtwNAIGTas]

— Shaun Walker (@shaunwalker7) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/shaunwalker7/status/1500496768160743428?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.20pm GMT

block-time published-time 10.04pm GMT

Summary

* Staff at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant are being told what to do by the Russian military commander who seized the site last week, in violation of international safety protocols[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/ukraine-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant-staff-under-russian-orders].

* Emmanuel Macron implored Putin to let civilians flee Ukraine’s besieged cities[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/mariupol-residents-prepare-to-leave-second-ceasefire-russia-ukraine] during a marathon call of nearly two hours as a second attempt to evacuate the port city of Mariupol ended under Russia bombardment.

* A Texas congresswoman has called for Russia to release Brittney Griner[https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2022/mar/06/brittney-griner-arrest-russia-drugs-charges-wnba-basketball-wnba-ukraine] as fears grow Putin could use the US basketball star as a pawn during the war in Ukraine.

* US Secretary of State Antony Blinken says the US and its allies are engaged in a “very active discussion” about banning the import of Russian oil and natural gas[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/mar/06/us-allies-discuss-russian-oil-imports-ban].

* More than 4,300 people have been arrested[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/4300-people-arrested-anti-war-protests-across-russia-decounce-vladimir-putin-war-ukraine] after demonstrators took to the streets in 21 Russian cities to condemn Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.

* Eight civilians were killed[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-622517218f08c9a6402f96e5#block-622517218f08c9a6402f96e5] in Irpin as evacuations were underway, according to the mayor.

* Netflix, TikTok, Ikea, Apple, Microsoft, TikTok, Mastercard and Visa, Boeing, Nike, Volkswagen and other companies have suspended or restricted operations in Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-622521508f08d07f5d1c9a7c#block-622521508f08d07f5d1c9a7c].

A Ukrainian volunteer fighter helps carry a child for local residents as they evacuate Irpin on foot as Russian forces advance and continue to bombard the area with artillery. Photograph: Marcus Yam/LOS ANGELES TIMES/REX/Shutterstock

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.20pm GMT

block-time published-time 9.36pm GMT

UK aims to speed up sanctions process

The UK is pushing new legislation on Monday that aims to speed up the sanctions process by allowing ministers to tighten restrictions on Russian businesses and individuals, Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/uk/uk-seeks-quicken-sanctions-process-increase-pressure-russia-2022-03-06/] :

The Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Bill is being pushed through parliament next week as Britain tries to punish those with links to Russian President Vladimir Putin in response to his invasion of Ukraine.

“Punishing sanctions are meaningless until properly implemented, and these changes will allow us to pursue Putin’s allies in the UK with the full backing of the law, beyond doubt or legal challenge,” Prime Minister Boris Johnson said.

Britain has already sanctioned some banks, firms and individuals, but has faced calls to ramp up its sanctions and move faster on Russian oligarchs and companies.

enltrUK seeks to quicken sanctions process to increase pressure on Russia https://t.co/lUnZ3MTxJ8[https://t.co/lUnZ3MTxJ8] pic.twitter.com/OdZXNz3v2f[https://t.co/OdZXNz3v2f]

— Reuters (@Reuters) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/Reuters/status/1500570717938724870?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

For more reading on the subject:

Related: Russian oligarchs in UK face new laws tackling ‘dirty money’[https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2022/feb/28/russian-oligarchs-in-uk-face-new-laws-tackling-dirty-money]

Related: Register of offshore owners of UK properties full of loopholes, say experts[https://www.theguardian.com/money/2022/mar/01/register-of-offshore-owners-of-uk-properties-full-of-loopholes-say-experts]

Related: Oligarch money is embedded in London. Beware the big talk of a ‘crackdown’ | John Harris[https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/mar/06/oligarch-money-is-embedded-in-london-beware-the-big-talk-of-a-crackdown]

block-time published-time 9.15pm GMT

Netflix shuts down service in Russia

Netflix is suspending all of its services in Russian in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the company said in a statement, Variety reports[https://variety.com/2022/digital/news/netflix-suspends-service-russia-ukraine-invasion-1235197390/].

“Given the circumstances on the ground, we have decided to suspend our service in Russia,” a spokesperson told the publication.

Netflix has more than 1m customers in Russia, and no new customers will be able to sign up, though it’s unclear what impact this move may have on existing accounts, according to Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-06/netflix-is-shutting-all-services-in-russia-after-ukraine-war?utm_medium=social&cmpid=socialflow-twitter-business&utm_source=twitter&utm_content=business&utm_campaign=socialflow-organic]. Netflix had already announced that it would be temporarily pausing future projects and acquisitions from Russia, Variety reported, noting that the streaming service had four Russian original projects in the works.

Other companies that have suspended or limited operations or sales in Russia include: Ikea[https://about.ikea.com/en/newsroom/2022/03/03/ikea-pauses-operations-in-russia-and-belarus], Apple[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/03/apples-decision-to-halt-russia-sales-puts-pressure-on-samsung-google.html], Microsoft[https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-microsoft-and-other-tech-companies-stop-sales-in-russia/], TikTok[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-62250b5c8f08c9a6402f9662#block-62250b5c8f08c9a6402f9662], Mastercard and Visa[https://twitter.com/ap/status/1500247378279997444], Boeing[https://www.wsj.com/articles/what-companies-have-pulled-back-from-russia-11646425481], Nike[https://www.reuters.com/business/retail-consumer/nike-temporarily-close-all-stores-russia-2022-03-03/] and Volkswagen[https://www.wsj.com/articles/what-companies-have-pulled-back-from-russia-11646425481].

The Netflix logo is seen on top of their office building in Hollywood, California. Photograph: Chris Delmas/AFP/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.29pm GMT

block-time published-time 9.01pm GMT

The US efforts to isolate Russia have intensified this weekend, with discussions of a possible ban on the import of Russian oil and natural gas[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/mar/06/us-allies-discuss-russian-oil-imports-ban], and senior US officials traveling to Venezuela for rare talks with Nicolás Maduro’s government.

Secretary of State Antony Blinken[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/antony-blinken] said earlier today that the US and its allies were engaged in a “very active discussion” about prohibiting the import of Russian oil and natural gas, which would mark a significant escalation of the ongoing sanctions. Blinken told CNN[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/mar/06/us-allies-discuss-russian-oil-imports-ban] :

“We are now talking to our European partners and allies to look in a coordinated way at the prospect of banning the import of Russian oil while making sure that there is still an appropriate supply of oil on world market. That’s a very active discussion as we speak.”

House speaker Nancy Pelosi has also backed the idea of a Russian oil import ban, arguing at a press briefing earlier this week that Russia’s exports are funding Putin’s war efforts.

This weekend, White House and state department negotiators also met Maduro representatives in Caracas, Venezuela’s capital, the first meeting of its kind in years, as the Guardian’s Latin America correspondent, Tom Phillips, reported[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/us-officials-venezuela-talks-apparent-bid-further-isolate-russia] :

Citing anonymous US officials, the New York Times claimed[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/05/world/americas/venezuela-russia-usa.html] the Biden administration was motivated partly by concern that Russia’s Latin American allies – which include the authoritarian regimes in Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela – could become “security threats” if the geopolitical clash with Putin escalated.

Others speculated that the US saw Venezuelan oil as a potential substitute for Russian imports were it to slap sanctions on Moscow as a result of Putin’s invasion of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

Venezuela has the world’s largest oil reserves and its output is currently growing[https://www.argusmedia.com/en/news/2270123-venezuela-adapts-to-us-sanctions-with-rising-oil-flow] despite US sanctions imposed at the height of the 2019 attempt to topple Maduro.

Denmark’s prime minister also said[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?page=with:block-622512c38f0885faa96ca758#block-622512c38f0885faa96ca758] today that the country was aiming to become independent of Russian natural gas in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Related: US in ‘very active discussion’ with allies to ban import of Russian oil[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/mar/06/us-allies-discuss-russian-oil-imports-ban]

Related: US officials fly to Venezuela for talks in apparent bid to further isolate Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/us-officials-venezuela-talks-apparent-bid-further-isolate-russia]

block-time published-time 8.32pm GMT

Eight civilians killed in Irpin, mayor says

Eight civilians were killed in Irpin as evacuations were underway, according to the mayor, who said he witnessed four people die:

enltrIrpin's mayor Oleksandr Markushyn said he saw 4 people die today: 2 adults and 2 children, who were trying to evacuate. He said in total 8 died. He says part of the city is under Russian control but 'Irpin has not surrendered, Irpin is fighting' pic.twitter.com/5qvxBpn99b[https://t.co/5qvxBpn99b]

— Isobel Koshiw (@IKoshiw) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/IKoshiw/status/1500524389430964230?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Residents fleeing Irpin, just outside of Kyiv, were caught in shelling by Russian forces earlier today and forced to dive for cover, Reuters reported.

A policeman and a civilian take cover from shelling, in Irpin, Ukraine. Photograph: Europa Press News/Europa Press/Getty Images

“A family died,” Irpin mayor Oleksandr Markushyn said[https://twitter.com/MarquardtA/status/1500551992405594112], according to CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/index.html], “in front of my eyes two small children and two adults died... Irpin is at war, Irpin has not surrendered. Part of Irpin was indeed captured by Russian invaders, but part of Irpin is fighting and not surrendering.”

block-time published-time 8.16pm GMT

The Ukrainian town of Volnovakha was almost completely destroyed in the first days of the war, with intense shelling targeting civilian homes. About 90% of buildings have been damaged or reduced to rubble, and the dead lie unburied in the street, residents say.

Hundreds if not thousands of people are still sheltering in basements without heat or electricity, and dwindling supplies of food and water. Russia has not made good on offers of a ceasefire and humanitarian corridor to allow evacuations.

Marina, 38, an economist and mother of three, tells the story of her family’s hellish week under fire – and their terrifying escape:

My life is split into before and after these events happening in my country. I couldn’t hold back my tears about all the destruction.

When we heard the news that the Russian federation was planning to ‘liberate’ some territories, we didn’t believe it, we didn’t even think it was possible in the modern world. That’s why we decided to stay in the place we live.

If we had imagined for even a second what was coming, we would have risked trying to escape the very first moment the shelling started. Our children, who are five, six and 13, have got psychological trauma from this that will last all their lives.

Related: ‘Nowhere to go and nowhere to go back to’: Life under fire in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/nowhere-to-go-back-to-ukraine-volnovakha]

block-time published-time 8.08pm GMT

Denmark aims to become independent of Russian natural gas in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Danish prime minister Mette Frederiksen said, according to Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/denmark-vote-joining-eus-defence-policy-this-year-danish-media-2022-03-06/]. Denmark will also significantly increase its defence budget in response to the conflict, Frederiksen said.

Denmark’s Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen speaks during a press conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Photograph: Emil Helms/EPA

From Reuters:

The Nordic country will increase its defence spending gradually to reach 2% of GDP by 2033, equivalent to an increase in annual defence spending of around 18 billion Danish crowns ($2.65 billion) under an agreement between the main parliamentary parties.

The parties also agreed to set aside 7 billion crowns over the next two years to strengthen Danish defence, diplomacy and humanitarian efforts.

“Historic times call for historic decisions,” Frederiksen said at a press briefing in Copenhagen, adding that this was “the largest investment in Danish defence in recent times”.

The prime minister also said that the main parliamentary parties were in agreement that Denmark should become independent of Russian gas “as soon as possible”, but Frederiksen did not offer a specific timeline at a press conference in Copenhagen on Sunday.

block-time published-time 7.53pm GMT

Some Ukrainians have reported that their loved ones in Russia refuse to believe that Russian soldiers could bomb innocent people, or even that a war is occurring, according to a new report from a New York Times journalist in Lviv[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-russia-families.html].

enltrAcross Ukraine, I have been meeting people w close relatives in Russia who refuse to believe the extent of the violence their state is perpetrating.

Cities suffer missile attacks, mothers fear for sons, but fathers, sisters, brothers respond w denial. ?? https://t.co/GLdl2BKAid[https://t.co/GLdl2BKAid]

— Valerie Hopkins (@VALERIEinNYT) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/VALERIEinNYT/status/1500549198701383684?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Across Ukraine, residents reported that their close family members in Russia were repeating the official Kremlin position to them, denying the attacks and the extent of the violence, reporter Valerie Hopkins wrote. Some examples:

enltrRelatives parrot the official Kremlin position: that Putin’s army is conducting a limited “special military operation” to “de-Nazify” Ukraine. Putin has called Pres Zelensky, a native Russian speaker w Jewish background, a “drug-addled Nazi” in an attempt to justify the invasion.

— Valerie Hopkins (@VALERIEinNYT) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/VALERIEinNYT/status/1500549202723713031?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrSvetlana from Cherkasy sends her relatives in Belarus and Tomsk "necessary information" every day. “The response is that ‘This is some kind of fake information that this cannot be the case at all, that no one can or will shoot at civilians,’” she said.

— Valerie Hopkins (@VALERIEinNYT) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/VALERIEinNYT/status/1500549208365056005?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Some more on the disinformation, misinformation and propaganda from Russian-backed outlets that has been spreading over the last week:

Related: Flood of Russian misinformation puts tech companies in the hot seat[https://www.theguardian.com/media/2022/feb/28/facebook-twitter-ukraine-russia-misinformation]

block-time published-time 7.38pm GMT

TikTok suspends livestreaming in Russia

TikTok has announced that it is suspending livestreaming in Russia and restricting the uploading of new videos, in response to Russia’s new law that threatens jail sentences[https://www.theguardian.com/media/2022/mar/04/bbc-temporarily-suspending-work-all-news-journalists-russia] of up to 15 years for spreading “fake news”.

enltr1/ TikTok is an outlet for creativity and entertainment that can provide a source of relief and human connection during a time of war when people are facing immense tragedy and isolation. However, the safety of our employees and our users remain our highest priority.

— TikTokComms (@TikTokComms)

March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/TikTokComms/status/1500535434610368518?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

TikTok said in a statement[https://newsroom.tiktok.com/en-us/bringing-more-context-to-content-on-tiktok?utm_source=COMMSTWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=030622] :

Our highest priority is the safety of our employees and our users, and in light of Russia’s new ‘fake news’ law, we have no choice but to suspend livestreaming and new content to our video service in Russia while we review the safety implications of this law. Our in-app messaging service will not be affected. We will continue to evaluate the evolving circumstances in Russia to determine when we might fully resume our services with safety as our top priority.

The “fake news” law has already had widespread consequences. The BBC, the Canadian Broadcasting Company and Bloomberg News all said on Friday that their journalists were pausing work. CNN, CBS News and ABC News stopped broadcasting in Russia, and other news organizations have temporarily stopped publishing bylines of their journalists in Russia, the Guardian reported[https://www.theguardian.com/media/2022/mar/04/bbc-temporarily-suspending-work-all-news-journalists-russia].

Russia also entirely blocked Facebook on Friday[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/04/russia-completely-blocks-access-to-facebook-and-twitter] in retaliation for the platform restricting content from state-owned media.

More details here:

Related: BBC, CNN and other global news outlets suspend reporting in Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/media/2022/mar/04/bbc-temporarily-suspending-work-all-news-journalists-russia]

block-time published-time 7.15pm GMT

Retired army general David Petraeus, former head of US central command during the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, said he did not accept military assumptions that Kyiv will inevitably fall to Russia.

Russian forces have a 40-mile-long convoy[https://viewer.gutools.co.uk/world/2022/mar/03/concern-mounting-huge-russian-military-convoy-outside-kyiv-ukraine] of military vehicles stalled on the approach to the Ukrainian capital and Petraeus said it appeared “they cannot keep their columns fueled” and praised Ukrainian resilience so far.

“They’ve taken down road signs or pointed “Welcome to Hell” and stuff like that,” Petraeus, who is also former director of the CIA, told CNN:

This is going to be a very long fight in Kyiv. The locals there have been stockpiling food, there is going to be an enormously fierce resistance. I don’t accept assumptions that it will fall.”

Petraeus also noted Kyiv’s extensive surface area as a major obstacle for the Russian military, pointing out that the capital is spread across around 320 square miles, larger than New York City and a little over half the size of London’s sprawl. CNN host Jake Tapper asked Petraeus about the vulnerability of other countries near Russia, notably non-Nato places, even as Nato moves to strengthen its boundaries with military might along members’ borders with Russia and its neighbor Belarus, from the Baltic states to Romania.

“The one to be worried about is Moldova,” said Petraeus, referring to the small country lodged between Nato-member Romania and the south-western flank of Ukraine, where US secretary of state Antony Blinken was on Sunday. “We need to be shoring that up substantially.”

Petraeus added that that should occur even as the US and its western allies “work to get these MiGs out of Poland and into Ukraine to be flown by Ukrainian pilots,” he said.

Earlier, Blinken had talked[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/mar/06/antony-blinken-russia-sanctions-ukraine-invasion] about sending US fighter jets to Poland so that that country can send supplies of used MiGs and Sukhoi military planes to Ukraine, where the military is familiar with those Russian-style jets rather than western-made fighters.

Related: Blinken vows to escalate sanctions on Russia but warns war could last ‘some time’[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/mar/06/antony-blinken-russia-sanctions-ukraine-invasion]

block-time published-time 7.09pm GMT

Vladimir Putin has reiterated his demands in Ukraine in a further telephone conversation with French President Emmanuel Macron and said Ukraine must meet them or the war continues.

In a briefing with journalists, the Elysée said Macron had spoken to Putin for an hour and 45 minutes on Sunday morning to reiterate the international communities demands to halt hostilities but also guarantee the safety of civilians and allow humanitarian organisations to operate.

“President Putin has again expressed his termination to obtain all his objectives by negotiation or by war. The President of the Republic expressed his determination to obtain negotiations and peace,” the Elysée spokesperson said.

enltrFrench president Emmanuel Macron spoke again to Russian president Vladimir Putin today. Was a 1hr45min call made by Macron. Putin reiterated his demands for:

1. The "de-Nazification" of Ukraine

2. The "neutralisation" of Ukraine (ie no joining Nato and no weapons). #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] 1/n

— Kim Willsher (@kimwillsher1) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/kimwillsher1/status/1500507765671870467?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

More from the spokesperson:

If Ukraine refuses to agree to this there will be a pursuing of military operations. This is unacceptable to Ukraine... The President of the Republic has reiterated the demand, a demand with the quasi unanimous support of the international community, for the halting of the military operation. It is also necessary that international humanitarian rights are absolutely respected.”

block-time published-time 6.45pm GMT

War crimes investigators begin collecting evidence

Ukrainians fleeing the scenes of destruction and carnage in Ukraine are already being interviewed by investigators in anticipation of a future war crimes trial of Vladimir Putin[https://www.theguardian.com/world/vladimir-putin], along with his top officials and generals.

With well over a million refugees crossing the border, there is an abundance of eyewitness testimony, while the flow of video footage through social media has provided an unprecedented amount of evidence which is being subjected to forensic analysis.

However, the sheer quantity of evidence is not necessarily a guarantee of a successful trial, and experienced war crimes investigators warn there is a long war to go before Putin and his regime are in the dock, in person or in absentia.

enltrWar crimes investigators have already started work collecting evidence from Ukraine, but it will be a long road from survivor interviews to putting Putin and his regime in the dock.

I spoke to some veteran investigators https://t.co/JKNtFj58OE[https://t.co/JKNtFj58OE]

— Julian Borger (@julianborger)

March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/julianborger/status/1500537307144888329?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Multiple investigations have been launched at the same time, and it is not clear to what extent they are coordinated, if at all.

The prosecutor of the international criminal court (ICC) in The Hague has opened an investigation[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/28/ukraine-russia-belarus-war-crimes-investigation-the-hague], after a petition by an unprecedented 39 member states, and will almost certainly receive the most governmental support.

Related: ‘Leave no stone unturned’: how investigators gather evidence of war crimes in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/law/2022/mar/06/leave-no-stone-unturned-how-investigators-gather-evidence-of-war-crimes-in-ukraine]

block-time published-time 6.38pm GMT

American Express is suspending all operations in Russia and Belarus, Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/business/american-express-suspends-operations-russia-belarus-2022-03-06/].

Visa and Mastercard have taken similar steps[https://www.axios.com/visa-mastercard-russia-suspend-e300c30f-404d-4dc4-adcc-c3b03adec289.html?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=editorial&utm_content=economy-business-russiaukraine], with a block that allows for continued domestic transactions in Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/mar/06/russians-visa-mastercard-ban-domestic-purchases-mir]. The Guardian’s banking correspondent, Kalyeena Makortoff[https://www.theguardian.com/profile/kalyeena-makortoff], explained earlier that the Mastercard and Visa suspension largely targets foreign payments, so that local consumers will no longer be able to use their Russian cards abroad or for online international payments.

Our earlier coverage:

Related: Mastercard and Visa block in Russia does not stop domestic purchases[https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/mar/06/russians-visa-mastercard-ban-domestic-purchases-mir]

block-time published-time 6.27pm GMT

Summary

A summary of some of the latest developments in the Russian invasion of Ukraine:

* The US has seen “ very credible reports[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?page=with:block-6224c5298f0885faa96ca386#block-6224c5298f0885faa96ca386] ” of deliberate attacks on civilians in Ukraine, US secretary of state Antony Blinken said.

* Police detained more than 4,300 people on Sunday at protests across Russia against Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, an independent protest monitoring group reported[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?page=with:block-6224c93b8f08c9a6402f930c#block-6224c93b8f08c9a6402f930c].

* BBC World News has been taken off air in Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-6224c77e8f08c9a6402f92de#block-6224c77e8f08c9a6402f92de], the broadcaster said.

* Ukraine is is open to discussing “non- NATO models” for its future, one of its negotiators said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukraine-open-discussing-non-nato-models-negotiator-tells-fox-news-2022-03-06/].

* The safe passage of civilians from Ukraine’s besieged eastern port city of Mariupol was halted again on Sunday[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?page=with:block-6224bb5f8f08c9a6402f9230#block-6224bb5f8f08c9a6402f9230].

* A UN nuclear watchdog said that staff at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant continue to operate it, but that management is now under the orders of the commander of the Russian forces[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-6224eccf8f08c9a6402f94da#block-6224eccf8f08c9a6402f94da].

block-time published-time 6.12pm GMT

Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan[https://www.theguardian.com/world/imran-khan], has responded to a joint letter from the heads of diplomatic missions urging Pakistan to condemn Russia, saying[https://www.reuters.com/article/us-ukraine-crisis-pakistan/pakistani-premier-hits-out-at-western-envoys-joint-letter-on-russia-idUSKBN2L30LQ], “What do you think of us? Are we your slaves... that whatever you say, we will do?”

On 1 March, the heads of 22 diplomatic missions had publicised a joint letter calling on Pakistan to support a resolution in the United Nations general assembly to condemn Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/article/us-ukraine-crisis-pakistan/pakistani-premier-hits-out-at-western-envoys-joint-letter-on-russia-idUSKBN2L30LQ], noting that the move to release the letter was rare:

In the event, Pakistan, a traditional ally of the west, abstained from voting as the UN general assembly overwhelmingly reprimanded Russia for invading Ukraine.

“I want to ask the European Union ambassadors: Did you write such a letter to India?” Khan said at a political rally on Sunday, noting that Pakistan’s arch-rival had also abstained. Khan also said European countries had not censured India for its actions in Kashmir, a mountainous region over which Pakistan and India have fought two wars.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.24pm GMT

block-time published-time 5.58pm GMT

The Bolshoi Theatre’s music director and principal conductor, Tugan Sokhiev, has announced his resignation, saying he felt under pressure due to calls to take a position on the Ukraine conflict.

The Russian said in a statement he was resigning “with immediate effect” from his post at the Moscow theatre, as well as his equivalent position at France’s Orchestre National du Capitole de Toulouse.

Russian conductor Tugan Sokhiev rehearsing with the Orchestre national du Capitole of Toulouse at the Halle aux Grains venue in Toulouse, south-western France. Photograph: Eric Cabanis/AFP/Getty Images

Sokhiev was appointed by the Bolshoi in 2014. He was brought in as part of moves to improve the theatre’s image after scandals including the 2013 acid attack on its then-artistic director Sergei Filin.

He comes from the same North Ossetia region of Russia as star conductor Valery Gergiev and is considered to be his protege. Kremlin loyalist Gergiev has been stripped of his role at the Munich Philharmonic for failing to denounce Russia’s actions.

Sokhiev said in a lengthy statement that “many people were waiting for me to express myself and to hear from me my position on what’s happening at the moment,” referring to Russia’s military action in Ukraine.

He said he decided to resign after “being forced to face the impossible option of choosing between my beloved Russian and beloved French musicians”.

He cited opposition from authorities in Toulouse to his planned staging of a Franco-Russian music festival there, saying they “want me to express myself for peace”.

Sokhiev became music director of the Toulouse orchestra in 2008 and continued to work with the orchestra after joining the Bolshoi.

Sokhiev did not say explicitly whether he backs or opposes Russia’s actions in Ukraine while he said that “I have never supported and I will always be against any conflicts in any shape and form”.

He said musicians are becoming “victims of so called ‘cancel culture’” and suggested Russian music could come under threat. “I will be soon asked to choose between Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Shostakovich and Beethoven, Brahms, Debussy,” he warned.

The Bolshoi general director, Vladimir Urin, told TASS state news agency he was saddened by Sokhiev’s decision. “I’m very sorry. His departure is a serious problem for the Bolshoi Theatre. It’s unclear how the situation will develop from now,” he said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.25pm GMT

block-time published-time 5.46pm GMT

Ukraine is not willing to compromise on its territorial integrity in talks with Russia but is open to discussing “non- Nato models” for its future, one of its negotiators told Fox News.

Ukraine has pursued membership of the European Union and Nato, both opposed by Moscow. Vladimir Putin has cited Ukraine’s potential membership of Nato as evidence of what he portrays as Nato aggression toward Russia.

“The response that we are getting from the Nato countries is that they are not ready to even discuss having us in Nato, not for the next period of five or 10 years,” negotiator David Arakhamia said in remarks published by Fox News late on Saturday.

“We are ready to discuss some non-Nato models. For example, there could be direct guarantees by different countries like the US, China, UK, maybe Germany and France. We are open to discussing such things in a broader circle, not only in bilateral discussions with Russia but also with other partners.”

Delegations from Ukraine and Russia have had two rounds of talks since Russia launched an invasion of its neighbour on 24 February.

On Thursday, the sides agreed to open humanitarian corridors to allow civilians out of some combat zones, although there have been delays in implementing them. The next round of talks is due on Monday, according to the Ukrainian side.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.26pm GMT

block-time published-time 5.33pm GMT

Earlier on Sunday, the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said Russian rockets had completely destroyed the civilian airport in the central-western region of Vinnytsia on Sunday.

Footage appears to show columns of smoke and fire billowing from the airport.

block-time published-time 5.29pm GMT

A German-flagged ship carrying Russian oil that had been moored in the UK has moved on after workers made it clear they would not unload the cargo.

Unions have urged the government to close what they believe is a loophole following a ban on Russian vessels docking in the UK, saying cargo is not covered.

The German-flagged Seacod was moored near the Stanlow Oil Refinery in the north-west but moved away on Sunday, heading north. Unite said because the vessel is German flagged it doesn’t fall under the UK’s ban on Russian shipping.

It was not clear if the oil was unloaded before unions became aware it was Russian.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.27pm GMT

block-time published-time 5.19pm GMT

Staff at Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant under Russian orders, IAEA says

Staff at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant continue to operate it, but management is now under the orders of the commander of the Russian forces that seized it last week, the UN nuclear watchdog said.

“I’m extremely concerned,” International Atomic Energy Agency chief, Rafael Grossi, said in a statement, adding that Russian forces had cut off some mobile networks and the internet, complicating communications with the plant.

“Management and staff must be allowed to carry out their vital duties in stable conditions without undue external interference or pressure.”

block-time published-time 4.59pm GMT

Senior US officials have flown to Venezuela for rare talks with Nicolás Maduro’s government in an apparent bid to prise the South American country away from its Russian backers after Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.

White House and state department negotiators met Maduro representatives in Venezuela’s capital, Caracas, on Saturday in what was the first such encounter in years.

Related: US officials fly to Venezuela for talks in apparent bid to further isolate Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/us-officials-venezuela-talks-apparent-bid-further-isolate-russia]

block-time published-time 4.52pm GMT

Ukrainians fleeing the town of Irpin just outside Kyiv were caught in shelling by Russian forces on Sunday and forced to dive for cover, Reuters witnesses said.

Civilians evacuate during a Russian attacks on the city of Irpin, northwest of Kyiv. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

Irpin, 16 miles (25km) north-west of the capital, has seen intense fighting in recent days. Russia’s military is closing in on Kyiv, home to around 3.4 million people before the invasion sparked a mass exodus of civilians.

Irpin residents scurried along pavements clutching children, luggage and pets as they made their way to waiting buses and cars that would take them further from the clashes.

Soldiers and fellow residents helped elderly men and women who were falling behind. Some people crouched down when explosions went off nearby, apparently from mortar rounds.

A blast hit just a few metres away during a civilian evacuation in Irpin, Ukraine Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

Reuters reporters said they did not witness casualties in the shelling, but several news outlets said that at least three people – a woman and two children – were killed.

The New York Times published a photograph[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] of four members of a family – a mother, father and two children – lying on the ground in Irpin.

The caption said they were trying to flee when a mortar struck, and that the father, being tended to by Ukrainian soldiers in the image, was the only one still with a pulse.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.05pm GMT

block-time published-time 4.36pm GMT

A Texas congresswoman has called for Russia to release Brittney Griner as fears grow Vladimir Putin could use the US basketball star as a pawn during the war in Ukraine.

The two-time Olympic champion has been detained by Russian customs authorities[https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2022/mar/05/brittney-griner-reportedly-detained-russia], who claim they discovered vape cartridges containing hashish oil in her luggage at an airport near Moscow. The arrest took place last month and the 31-year-old faces up to 10 years in prison if found guilty of bringing drugs into Russia.

Related: Fears grow Russia could use US basketball star Brittney Griner as ‘hostage’[https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2022/mar/06/brittney-griner-arrest-russia-drugs-charges-wnba-basketball-wnba-ukraine]

block-time published-time 4.14pm GMT

While Boris Johnson and his cabinet scramble to deliver measures that will give Vladimir Putin pause for thought in his assault on Ukraine, another – lesser known – Briton is poised to have a potentially more significant impact.

Less than nine months into his tenure as the international criminal court (ICC) prosecutor, Karim Khan, a senior English barrister, announced this week[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/28/ukraine-russia-belarus-war-crimes-investigation-the-hague] that he had launched an investigation into the situation in Ukraine as there was “a reasonable basis” to believe that both alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity had been committed there.

There is no guarantee charges will be brought against Putin and his acolytes but some cling to the hope that the prospect of potentially having to stand trial in the future and of being arrested in countries signed up to the ICC may make some of them think again.

Related: Karim Khan: the ‘very modern British barrister’ heading ICC’s Russia inquiry[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/karim-khan-british-barrister-icc-russia-war-crimes-inquiry]

block-time published-time 4.11pm GMT

The French president, Emmanuel Macron, told Vladimir Putin, during a phone call on Sunday, of his concerns about a possible imminent attack on the Ukrainian city of Odesa, according to a statement from Macron’s office.

Macron also stated the importance of finding a negotiated settlement to the Ukraine crisis, and of protecting Ukraine’s nuclear facilities.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.12pm GMT

block-time published-time 4.07pm GMT

A Maidenhead rabbi who is attempting to set up a “Ukrainetransport” for families fleeing the Russian invasion says he has been overwhelmed by offers of help in the UK.

Jonathan Romain, whose mother fled Nazi Germany on the Kindertransport during the second world war, has been contacted by more than 240 people offering rooms for refugees.

Explaining the initiative, he tweeted[https://twitter.com/RabbiRomain/status/1499673468677275649] : “I have always wondered how I could repay the debt I owe to the Kindertransport, who saved my then 11-year-old mother. Now is the time, which is why I am helping to co-ordinate Ukrainetransport.”

Related: Rabbi in UK wants a ‘Ukrainetransport’ for families fleeing the Russian invasion[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/rabbi-in-uk-wants-a-ukrainetransport-for-families-fleeing-the-russian-invasion]

block-time published-time 4.06pm GMT

Anastasia Lapatina, a journalist at the Kyiv Independent, tells how Polish people are hosting Ukrainians in their apartments, driving them to places, or simply giving them money to cover basic needs.

When I hopped on a train from Krakow to Przemysl, a small Polish town near the Ukrainian border, I expected to be confronted with a humanitarian catastrophe, produced by a million people fleeing their homes due to war. But what I saw was instead the best of humanity.

As Russia has launched a bloody full-scale war against my country, thousands of Ukrainians have escaped by train to this railway station.

There, they are met by an enormous banner in front of its entrance that reads, in bothPolish and Ukrainian: “You are safe here.”

Inside, dozens of Polish volunteers provide Ukrainian refugees with “everything for free”, as another sign says – food, water, clothes, phones with prepaid plans, accommodation, legal advice.

Related: Here at the Polish-Ukrainian border, I see nothing but humanity towards refugees | Anastasia Lapatina[https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/mar/06/polish-ukrainian-border-humanity-refugees]

block-time published-time 4.06pm GMT

A resident passing a house on fire after heavy shelling on the only escape route used by locals to leave the town of Irpin, while Russian troops advance towards the capital Photograph: Carlos Barría/Reuters An Ukrainian serviceman looks through binoculars towards the town of Stoyanka at a checkpoint before the last bridge on the road that connects Stoyanka with Kyiv Photograph: Aris Messinis/AFP/Getty Images Demonstrators hold placard and flags during a demonstration in support of Ukraine in Parliament Square, in London Photograph: Alberto Pezzali/AP A woman fleeing the Russian invasion of Ukraine warms her hands at a fireplace after crossing the border from Ukraine to Poland, at the border checkpoint in Medyka Photograph: Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters

block-time published-time 4.04pm GMT

Ukraine’s prime minister, Denys Shmyhal, said he had signed a formal request to foreign governments, including the United States, for termination of Russia and Belarus’s memberships of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.

“These two countries violated their obligations and directed their policies towards war,” he said in a statement.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.16pm GMT

block-time published-time 4.03pm GMT

British prime minister Boris Johnson told Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy he would work with international allies to obtain more defensive military equipment to help with the conflict in Ukraine.

“The leaders discussed the urgent needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the prime minister undertook to work with partners to provide further defensive equipment,” said a readout of a call between the two leaders provided by Johnson’s office.

block-time published-time 3.58pm GMT

How can we expect the Tory party to wean Britain off Russian wealth and power, when they got us hooked in the first place, writes Guardian columnist John Harris.

In some of London’s most exclusive neighbourhoods, you can suddenly sense the kind of unease that wealth usually keeps at bay. As the government talks up its determination to crack down on Russian oligarchs, a much wider shift may be afoot.

On Friday the Financial Times quoted[https://www.ft.com/content/5b356eb8-3cd6-4b24-a7d3-b02c6c60f55f] the chair of Aylesford International, a Chelsea estate agent whose current offerings include a four-bedroom apartment in Cadogan Square, SW3, going for the best part of £12m.

“The severity of these sanctions is the beginning of a new world, a new market,” he said. “I don’t think you can hide any more.”

Related: Oligarch money is embedded in London. Beware the big talk of a ‘crackdown’ | John Harris[https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/mar/06/oligarch-money-is-embedded-in-london-beware-the-big-talk-of-a-crackdown]

block-time published-time 3.56pm GMT

Explosions can be heard as journalists and Ukrainians are filmed amid heavy shelling in town of Irpin, near Kyiv. The Ukrainian military helped residents escape as Russian troops advanced towards the capital.

block-time published-time 3.55pm GMT

British MPs are urging major banks to shut their Moscow offices, after campaigners accused them of “quietly profiting” off their Russian operations while other industries [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/02/sanctions-boycotts-west-response-russian-invasion-ukraine] sever ties with the country.

Some of the City’s largest lenders including JP Morgan, Deutsche Bank, HSBC and Credit Suisse collectively employ thousands of staff who offer banking services to large companies and wealthy clients doing business in Russia.

While banks have had to drop services for Russian businesses and oligarchs in line with EU, US and UK sanctions, MPs said lenders had a moral duty to exit the country to put further financial pressure on Moscow as the Russian military continues to assault Ukraine.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine]

Related: British MPs urge global banks to close Russian offices ‘without delay’[https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/mar/06/campaigners-british-mps-banks-moral-duty-exit-russia-moscow-offices-hsbc-jp-morgan-deutsche-bank]

block-time published-time 3.54pm GMT

In conflict, where information is everything, what is striking about the war in Ukraine is not what is known but the very large areas of unknowns.

And even as commentators have picked over and analysed everything that is known about the Russian military’s operations and performance in Ukraine in an effort to predict the trajectory of the conflict, it’s what is poorly understood that may yet be more significant still.

One issue that has come under the spotlight is the rate of losses of soldiers and equipment on the Russian side in the week and a half so far of fighting.

In that period, images of dead and captured Russian soldiers and destroyed or abandoned equipment have become commonplace as it has become clear that Russian forces have lost everything from aircraft to main battle tanks and even whole convoys.

But attrition is not a one way street, and what is far less clear is the level of losses sustained by Ukrainian forces, with no equivalent social media avalanche from the Russian side parading this, and Ukraine understandably not wanting to advertise its losses.

Related: Clear picture of war in Ukraine clouded by large areas of unknowns[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/clear-picture-russian-war-ukraine-clouded-unknowns-lack-reliable-information]

block-time published-time 3.47pm GMT

Ukrainian engineers were scrambled to repair a gas pipeline damaged by Russian forces, halting supplies to parts of south-eastern Ukraine, the Donetsk region governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said.

Engineers had shut down the pipe to prevent gas from leaking, he said, adding that gas flow downstream was now dropping and would stop completely later in the day.

Kyrylenko said that every location between the town of Vuhledar in the Donetsk region and the port of Berdyansk would be left without gas while the damage was repaired. The distance between the two towns is 117 km (73 miles).

“We are working hard to remove this problem as quickly as possible,” Kyrylenko said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.06pm GMT

block-time published-time 3.44pm GMT

Russian forces have opened fire at a protest against their occupation of the southern Ukrainian city of Nova Kakhovka, wounding five people, Ukrainian news agency Interfax Ukraine said, citing eyewitnesses.

Around 2,000 people had taken to the streets of Nova Kakhovka to show their opposition to the invasion by waving Ukrainian flags and calling on Russian forces to leave, the agency reported. Similar protests were staged in other occupied areas, it said.

block-time published-time 3.40pm GMT

Images have emerged showing two Ukrainian fighters getting married at a checkpoint near Kyiv.

Members of the Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces, Lesia Ivashchenko and Valerii Fylymonov, are pictured during their wedding ceremony on 6 March.

Lesia Ivashchenko and Valerii Fylymonov kiss at their wedding at a checkpoint in Kyiv, Ukraine Photograph: Mykola Tymchenko/Reuters Two Ukrainian territorial defence fighters tied the knot amid Russian’s invasion of their country Photograph: Sergey Dolzhenko/EPA A helmet is placed on top of Lesia’s head after she married a fellow Ukrainian fighter. Photograph: Sergey Dolzhenko/EPA

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.07pm GMT

block-time published-time 3.28pm GMT

A prominent member of the Brazilian right is facing calls to resign after he was exposed in leaked audio messages making a succession of callous and misogynistic remarks about Ukrainian refugees during a purportedly humanitarian mission to the recently invaded country.

Arthur do Val, a São Paulo congressman and former supporter of Brazil’s rightwing president, Jair Bolsonaro, made a three-day trip to the region last week, supposedly to raise awareness of the human cost of Vladimir Putin’s attack.

On Friday, Brazilian media published audio messages[https://oglobo.globo.com/politica/ouca-os-audios-de-conteudo-sexista-que-levaram-arthur-do-val-desistir-de-campanha-em-sp-1-25420632] in which Do Val spoke in highly offensive terms about Ukrainian refugees.

In one recording, the politician says: “I’ve just crossed the border on foot between Ukraine and Slovakia. Bro, I swear to you … I’ve never seen anything like it in terms of beautiful girls. The refugee queue … it’s like 200 metres long or more of just total goddesses … It’s some incredible shit … The queue outside Brazil’s best nightclub … doesn’t come close to the refugee queue here.”

In a second excerpt Do Val says: “Let me tell you, they’re easy because they’re poor.”

Related: Brazilian politician’s sexist remarks about Ukraine refugees spark outrage[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/brazilian-politician-arthur-do-val-sexist-remarks-ukraine-refugees-outrage]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.08pm GMT

block-time published-time 3.25pm GMT

Consumers will still be able to use Mastercard and Visa-branded cards for domestic transactions in Russia, the country’s state-backed payments network has said, reducing the impact of the US firms’ decision to pull services [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/05/visa-and-mastercard-will-both-suspend-operations-in-russia] over the invasion of Ukraine.

Russia’s homegrown payments system Mir said the cardholders would still be able to access their funds[https://mironline.ru/press-center/press-releases/06-03-2022-nspk-karty-visa-i-mastercard-vsekh-rossiyskikh-bankov-prodolzhat-rabo/], make withdrawals and domestic transfers – at least until their bank cards expire.

Mir has processed most domestic payments in Russia since 2015, while foreign operators such as Visa and Mastercard continued to run international transactions.

The operator – which is 100% owned by the country’s central bank – was established on government orders to protect the economy against sanctions imposed over Moscow’s annexation of Crimea in 2014.

Related: Russians can still use Visa and Mastercard for domestic purchases, authorities say[https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/mar/06/russians-visa-mastercard-ban-domestic-purchases-mir]

block-time published-time 3.24pm GMT

Tens of thousands of people have demonstrated in cities including Santiago, Vancouver, Paris and New York in support of Ukraine, demanding an end to Russia’s invasion.

The protesters rallied on Saturday against Russian president Vladimir Putin’s attack, which began on 24 February and appeared to be entering a new phase[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/05/zelenskiy-lashes-out-at-nato-over-no-fly-zone-as-russian-attacks-intensify] with escalating bombardment.

block-time published-time 2.59pm GMT

At least 364 civilians are confirmed to have been killed in Ukraine since Russian troops invaded on 24 February, and another 759 wounded, although the true numbers are probably “considerably higher”, a UN monitoring mission has said.

The updated figures, relating to casualties up to 5 March, added a further 13 deaths and 52 injuries to the casualties that the monitors from the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) reported on Saturday.

block-time published-time 2.55pm GMT

More than 4,300 detained at anti-war protests in Russia

Police detained more than 4,300 people on Sunday at Russia-wide protests against president Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, according to an independent protest monitoring group.

Thousands of protesters chanted “No to war!” and “Shame on you!”, according to videos posted on social media by opposition activists and bloggers.

Dozens of protesters in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg were shown being detained. One protester there was shown being beaten on the ground by police in riot gear. A mural in the city showing President Vladimir Putin was defaced.

Russia’s interior ministry said earlier that police had detained around 3,500 people, including 1,700 in Moscow, 750 in St Petersburg and 1,061 in other cities.

Russian police detain a participant at an anti-war rally in Moscow on 6 March. Photograph: Yuri Kochetkov/EPA

The OVD-Info protest monitoring group said it had documented the detention of at least 4,366 people in 56 different cities.

“The screws are being fully tightened - essentially we are witnessing military censorship,” Maria Kuznetsova, OVD-Info’s spokeswoman, said by telephone from Tbilisi.

“We are seeing rather big protests today, even in Siberian cities where we only rarely saw such numbers of arrests.”

The group said police had used electric shockers on protesters and posted witness photos and videos on Telegram messenger service showing riot police beating protesters with batons and demonstrators with blood running down their faces.

Memorial, Russia’s most prominent human rights group, said that one of its leading activists, Oleg Orlov, was detained on the capital’s Manezhnaya Square as he held a placard.

Svetlana Gannushkina, another veteran rights campaigner who has been tipped as a potential Nobel prize winner, was detained in Moscow on her 80th birthday.

A police van carrying a group of detainees to a police station overturned in a road traffic accident, injuring nine, six of them members of the public, city police said.

The protests came after hundreds were detained at demonstrations further east, including the Siberian city of Novosibirsk and in Yekaterinburg in the Urals.

A protester is detained by police at a demonstration in St Petersburg on 6 March. Photograph: Anatoly Maltsev/EPA

Russian police on Friday said all attempts to hold demonstrations on Sunday would be “immediately suppressed”, and organisers and participants would face charges.

The latest detentions brought the total number of demonstrators held to more than 10,000 since 24 February, when the president, Vladimir Putin, launched an invasion of Ukraine.

Despite the official crackdown on demonstrations, and protesters facing jail terms, there have been daily protests since then.

On Friday, jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny urged supporters to stage protests on Sunday “on all the central squares of Russia and all the world”.

He has called for Russians to hold daily protests, saying they should not become a “nation of frightened cowards”.

A protester is detained by police at a demonstration in St Petersburg on 6 March. Photograph: Anatoly Maltsev/EPA

Related: More than 4,300 people arrested at anti-war protests across Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/4300-people-arrested-anti-war-protests-across-russia-decounce-vladimir-putin-war-ukraine]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.17pm GMT

block-time published-time 2.44pm GMT

BBC World News taken off air in Russia

BBC World News has been taken off air in Russia, the broadcaster has said.

Russian authorities have been restricting access to foreign and independent media outlets, including the main BBC websites, in recent days as the invasion of Ukraine continues.

On Friday, its parliament approved a law making it a criminal offence, punishable by up to 15 years in prison, to spread “fake” or “false” news about the Kremlin’s war in Ukraine, prompting the BBC to temporarily suspend the work of all its news journalists and support staff in Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/media/2022/mar/04/bbc-temporarily-suspending-work-all-news-journalists-russia].

BBC World News presenter Victoria Derbyshire was the first to announce the channel’s suspension.

She told viewers shortly before midday on Sunday: “BBC World News, the channel you are watching if you are outside the UK right now, and which is the BBC’s global television news channel, has just been taken off air in Russia.”

A BBC spokesperson later said BBC World News had not been available in Russia since Saturday.

The spokesperson added: “We regret that our Russian audiences are being denied access to trusted and impartial news at a time when they need it most.”

Since the Russian invasion began last month, the broadcaster has made efforts to ensure people inside Russia and Ukraine have access to its news output.

Both its Ukrainian and Russian language services are available on the dark web through the Tor network, a privacy-focused software, and the corporation has also brought back its shortwave radio service in a bid to thwart censorship attempts.

The Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova previously accused the BBC of playing “a determined role in undermining the Russian stability and security”.

In the UK, broadcasting watchdog Ofcom has opened 27 investigations into the “due impartiality” of programmes broadcast on the Kremlin-backed RT news channel, formerly known as Russia Today.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.12pm GMT

block-time published-time 2.38pm GMT

Summary

Here is a quick summary of the latest developments in the Russian invasion of Ukraine:

* The evacuation of civilians from besieged Mariupol was “halted” on Sunday for a second consecutive day[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/mariupol-residents-prepare-to-leave-second-ceasefire-russia-ukraine]. The Red Cross confirmed attempts to evacuate an estimated 200,000 people out of the city came to a halt, “underscoring the absence of a detailed and functioning agreement between the parties to the conflict”. Ukraine’s national guard accused Russia of continuing to shell the humanitarian corridors.

* The exodus from Ukraine is the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since the second world war, the United Nations said[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/ukraine-fastest-growing-refugee-crisis-since-second-world-war]. More than 1.5 million refugees have fled Ukraine in the past 10 days, and data showed Polish border guards cleared as many as 129,000 people at border crossings on Saturday, the most in a single day since the war started.

* Ukraine’s president said Russian rockets have completely destroyed Vinnytsia regional airport. He said in a video update that eight missiles were launched against “our peaceful Vinnytsia, a town that never threatened Russia in any way”, and renewed his demand that western powers enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine to prevent more Russian attacks.

* Putin said the conflict will only stop if Ukraine stops fighting and Russia’s demands are met. In a phone conversation with the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Putin also said Ukraine’s negotiators should take a more “constructive” approach in talks with Moscow to take into account the reality on the ground.

* France has accused the UK of a “lack of humanity” over Ukrainian refugees. The French interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, said 150 Ukrainian refugees have been turned away at Calais border crossings in recent days and told to obtain visas at UK consulates in Paris. He called on the British government to set up a proper consular service in Calais, adding that its response so far was “completely unsuitable”.

* Britain’s deputy prime minister, Dominic Raab, said it may take years for Putin to be defeated in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/ukraine-putin-dominic-raab-nato-sanctions] and people who thought the crisis could be resolved in days were “deluding themselves”.

* Pope Francis said the Ukraine conflict is “not a military operation but a war” in his weekly address to crowds gathered in St Peter’s Square. However, he did not publicly condemn Russia by name for its invasion.

* One of the last remaining independent media outlets in Russia, Mediazona, said it has been blocked by authorities for its reporting on the invasion of Ukraine. Earlier this week, Ekho Moskvy radio station and the Dozhd TV channel – two of Russia’s landmark liberal media outlets – were either dissolved or suspended operations.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.43pm GMT

block-time published-time 2.32pm GMT

The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has accused Ukrainian radicals for an incident on 3 March at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/04/ukraine-nuclear-power-plant-fire-zaporizhzhia-russian-shelling] in Ukraine.

“Vladimir Putin informed about the provocation by Ukrainian radicals in the area of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant,” the Kremlin said. “The radiation levels are normal.”

Putin also accused Ukraine of preventing civilians from leaving Mariupol.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.46pm GMT

block-time published-time 2.31pm GMT

Ukraine’s envoy to the United States has called on president Joe Biden’s administration to impose tougher sanctions on Moscow and to step up arms supplies to Kyiv, saying Russia should be treated “as a terrorist state.”

Ambassador Oksana Markarova, in an interview on Fox News on Sunday, repeated charges that Russia is committing war crimes by targeting civilians, hospitals and schools, and said Ukraine is working with the US and other countries to collect evidence.

“This is a terrorist state and we should treat Russia as a terrorist state,” Markarova said.

She renewed a plea for the US to intensify sanctions against Russia, including imposing a full embargo on imports of Russian oil and gas, and to increase shipments of anti-aircraft systems and other weaponry to Ukraine.

“We are thankful for the sanctions that have been implemented by the United States,” she said. “But since Russia is not changing their behaviour, they escalated actually, they are killing us more and more, the sanctions should toughen up.”

The White House is weighing cutting imports of Russian oil and gas, but is wary about a spike in gasoline prices that would fuel decades-high inflation.

Halting Russia’s invasion is vital to preventing the conflict from spreading beyond Ukraine, Markarova said.

“Every large war in the past started locally,” she said. “We know from the past that all of them could have been stopped locally.” Ukraine, Markarova said, will respond “to any peace talks.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.02pm GMT

block-time published-time 2.30pm GMT

US has seen "very credible reports" of deliberate attacks on civilians in Ukraine

The United States has seen “very credible reports” of deliberate attacks on civilians in Ukraine, US secretary of state Antony Blinken has said, adding that Washington was documenting these reports to support appropriate organisations in their potential war crimes investigation.

Blinken told CNN’s State of the Union show:

We’ve seen very credible reports of deliberate attacks on civilians which would constitute a war crime.

We’ve seen very credible reports about the use of certain weapons.

What we’re doing right now is documenting all of this, putting this all together, looking at it and making sure that as people and the appropriate organisations and institutions investigate whether war crimes have been or are being committed that we can support whatever they are doing.

On Friday, the US embassy in Ukraine said in a tweet that attacking a nuclear plant is a war crime. after Russian invasion forces seized Europe’s biggest nuclear power plant in heavy fighting in southeastern Ukraine, triggering global alarm.

The State Department sent a message to all US embassies in Europe telling them not to retweet the post, according to CNN, which said it reviewed the message.

Blinken did not address the embassy’s tweet and the State Department declined to comment on whether the tweet reflects the overall position of the US government on the issue, Reuters reported.

Images of cluster bombs and artillery strikes on Ukrainian cities this week have prompted the world’s top war crimes prosecutor to launch an investigation, with the support of dozens of nations opposed to Russia’s invasion.

In an CNN interview, European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said an investigation is needed into whether Russia is committing war crimes in Ukraine.

“I think there needs to be a strong and clear investigation on this question,” von der Leyen said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.25pm GMT

block-time published-time 2.11pm GMT

Ukraine’s state-run railway operator is ready to organise agricultural exports by rail as a matter of urgency, it said on Sunday, after closure of the country’s Black Sea ports because of the military invasion by Russia.

A major global agricultural producer and exporter, Ukraine has historically exported its grain, vegetable oils and other food products by ship.

“This situation causes problems not only for Ukraine. The share of Ukrainian grain on the world market is 11%, the share of sunflower oil is 55%,” Ukrainian Railways said on social media.

“To prevent the global food crisis and save Ukrainian exports, Ukrainian Railways is ready to organise agricultural products delivery by rail urgently.”

Ukrainian Railways said that it may deliver grain to borders with Romania, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland, from where the grain can be delivered to ports and logistics hubs of European countries.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.44pm GMT

block-time published-time 1.51pm GMT

Planned evacuation of Mariupol halted for second day

The safe passage of civilians from Ukraine’s besieged eastern port city of Mariupol was “halted” on Sunday for a second consecutive day, the International Committee of the Red Cross said.

In a statement, the ICRS said:

Amid devastating scenes of human suffering in Mariupol, a second attempt today to start evacuating an estimated 200,000 people out of the city came to a halt.

The failed attempts yesterday and today underscore the absence of a detailed and functioning agreement between the parties to the conflict.

“The ICRC is not and cannot in any way be the guarantor of a ceasefire agreement between the parties or of its implementation,” the body added, criticising the lack of a proper agreement between the warring parties to protect civilian lives amid ceasefire violations.

“For the safe passage of civilians to happen with the required levels of trust, the parties should agree between themselves not just in principle but also on the details and parameters” of an evacuation accord, the ICRC added, stressing its neutrality.

It underlined its readiness “to help facilitate further attempts if the parties reach a detailed agreement, which is for the parties alone to implement and respect”.

Mariupol city council said the evacuation was not possible due to Russian shelling. “It is extremely dangerous to take people out under such conditions,” the city council said in an online statement.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.18pm GMT

block-time published-time 1.12pm GMT

The UK’s chief of the defence staff has slapped down Liz Truss’s suggestion that Britons could travel to Ukraine to take up arms in the war against Russia, saying doing so would be illegal.

Sir Tony Radakin urged people not to rush towards “the sound of gunfire” and stressed there were many other ways that people in the UK could support those resisting the advancement of Vladimir Putin’s troops.

The unusually direct comment will be viewed as a strict admonishment of the foreign secretary’s suggestion, which had already been rejected by the defence secretary, Ben Wallace.

Last week, Truss was quizzed about the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy’s call for anyone who wanted to “join the defence of security in Europe” to “stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukrainians against the invaders”.

Asked whether Britons should venture out to fight, she said: “I do support that, and of course that is something that people can make their own decisions about.”

Related: Defence chief contradicts Liz Truss over idea of Britons going to fight in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/mar/06/britons-ukraine-fight-defence-chief-contradicts-liz-truss]

block-time published-time 1.10pm GMT

The exiled Belarus opposition leader, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, said the country’s leader had in effect ceded control of Belarus to the Kremlin.

President Alexander Lukashenko denies that his armed forces are operating in Ukraine[https://www.reuters.com/world/belarusian-forces-will-not-take-part-ukraine-war-lukashenko-says-2022-03-04/] or that he plans to enter the war on Russia’s side. But Belarus’s military is now indirectly under Kremlin control, Tsikhanouskaya said in an interview with the Guardian.

“It seems to us that Lukashenko is not controlling our military any more, the only thing he is controlling is repression against the Belarusian people,” she said. “We see signs of the military occupation of Belarus.”

Related: Belarus has effectively ceded control to Kremlin, says opposition leader[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/belarus-has-effectively-ceded-control-to-kremlin-says-opposition-leader-sviatlana-tsikhanouskaya]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.33pm GMT

block-time published-time 1.01pm GMT

Ukraine president says Russian rockets have completely destroyed Vinnytsia regional airport

The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said Russian rockets had completely destroyed the civilian airport of the central-western region capital of Vinnytsia on Sunday.

He said in a video update that eight missiles were launched against “our peaceful Vinnytsia, a town that never threatened Russia in any way”.

He described the attack as “brutal and cynical” and said it has left the airport “completely destroyed”. Russian attacks “continue to destroy our infrastructure - our lives”, he said.

Several cities and airbases in Ukraine have been bombed, shelled or hit with ballistic missiles since Russia launched its invasion. But Vinnytsia is in the western area of central Ukraine, far from the Russia and Belarus borders, in an area that has seen fewer such strikes.

Zelensky took the opportunity to renew his demand that Western powers enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine to prevent more Russian attacks.

“We repeat every day: close the sky over Ukraine. Close for all Russian missiles, for Russian combat aircraft, for all their terrorists,” he said.

“If you don’t, if you don’t give us at least planes so we can protect ourselves, there’s only one thing to conclude; you want us to be killed very slowly.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.25pm GMT

block-time published-time 12.21pm GMT

One of the last remaining independent media outlets in Russia, Mediazona, said it has been blocked by authorities for its reporting on Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

“Roskomnadzor began blocking Mediazona,” the outlet said in a statement, referring to Russia’s communications regulator.

“Because we cover honestly what is happening in Ukraine and call the invasion an invasion, and the war a war,” it said.

The statement added that Russia has in recent days introduced “military censorship and there are almost no independent media left in the country.”

The outlet’s publisher, Pyotr Verzilov, said they would “continue to work anyway and tell you about the war”.

rultr????????? ????? ?????????? ???????? ? ????? ?????? ? ???????????? ??? ? ?????.

????????????? ??? ??? ?????????? ?????? ???????? ?? ????????? ?? ? ????.

— ???? ???????? (@gruppa_voina) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/gruppa_voina/status/1500428069236051969?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Since president Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, authorities have ramped up an unprecedented crackdown on the already embattled media.

Earlier this week, Ekho Moskvy radio station and the Dozhd TV channel – two of Russia’s landmark liberal media outlets – were either dissolved or suspended operations.

Dozens of media workers and independent outlets – including Dozhd – have already been designated “foreign agents” by authorities, and many reporters and editors have been forced to leave the country.

The independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta, whose editor-in-chief, Dmitry Muratov, was awarded the Nobel peace prize in 2021, said it would not cover the conflict, citing new legislation on reporting on the military.

Mediazona is an independent online publication which writes about court cases and abuses of prisoners’ rights, among other subjects.

The outlet was founded in 2014 by Pussy Riot members Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina after they served prison time for mocking Putin in church.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.35pm GMT

block-time published-time 12.11pm GMT

Russia and Ukraine blame each other as Mariupol evacuation fails again

Pro-Russian separatists and Ukraine’s national guard accused each other of failing to establish a humanitarian corridor out of the Ukrainian city of Mariupol on Sunday, the second time the sides have attempted to arrange it.

Ukraine 24 television showed a fighter of the Azov Regiment (a grouping which uses Nazi-linked symbols and has had many members who have professed far-right extremist views) of the national guard who said Russian and pro-Russian forces that had encircled the port city of about 400,000 continued shelling the areas that were meant to be safe.

The Interfax news agency cited an official of the Donetsk separatist administration who accused the Ukrainian forces of failing to observe the limited ceasefire.

The separatist official said only about 300 people have left the city. Ukrainian authorities have earlier said they planned to evacuate over 200,000 people from Mariupol.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.05pm GMT

block-time published-time 12.10pm GMT

It may take years for Vladimir Putin to be defeated in his conquest of Ukraine, Britain’s deputy prime minister has admitted, as Labour accused the government of moving too slowly over sanctions.

Dominic Raab said people who thought the crisis could be resolved in days were “deluding themselves” and that Nato would need to “show some strategic stamina” in its bid to force the Russian army to retreat.

Raab said Putin was resorting to “ever more brutal tactics to try and wrest back the initiative” given the military campaign run from Moscow had “stuttered”.

Raab, who is also the justice secretary, told the BBC’s Sunday Morning programme:

I think the bottom line is none of the major cities have yet fallen.

But I think we ought to be under no doubt that our mission with our allies is to ensure Putin fails in Ukraine, and it’s going to take some time.

We’re talking about months if not years, and therefore we’ll have to show some strategic stamina because this is not going to be over in days.

Related: Defeating Putin in Ukraine may take years, says Dominic Raab[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/ukraine-putin-dominic-raab-nato-sanctions]

block-time published-time 12.07pm GMT

Putin says conflict will only stop if Ukraine stops fighting and Russia's demands are met - Kremlin

Vladimir Putin has said Russia’s military operation would only be halted if Kyiv stopped resisting and fulfilled all of the Kremlin’s demands.

Putin told Turkish president Tayyip Erdogan by telephone that Ukraine’s negotiators should take a more “constructive” approach in talks with Moscow to take into account the reality on the ground.

Putin, whose comments were published in a Kremlin readout of the call, said his “special operation” in Ukraine was going according to plan and to schedule.

“It was underlined that the suspension of the special operation is only possible if Kyiv stops military operations and carries out well-known Russian demands,” the Kremlin said.

Russia calls its actions in its former Soviet neighbour a “special operation” that seeks to destroy Ukraine’s military capabilities, purge the country of what it says are nationalists and make it a neutral state.

The Kremlin leader told Erdogan that Moscow was open to dialogue with the Ukrainian authorities, but that he hoped Ukrainian negotiators would take a more constructive approach at the next round of talks.

“Attention was drawn to the futility of any attempts to drag out the negotiation process, which is being used by the Ukrainian security forces to regroup their forces and resources,” the Kremlin said

“It is hoped that during the planned next round of negotiations, Ukraine’s representatives will show a more constructive approach, fully taking into account the emerging realities.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.46pm GMT

block-time published-time 12.04pm GMT

Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy has appealed directly to Russians to take to the streets in protest against the Kremlin’s invasion of his country or risk their own poverty and repression.

Since last week, thousands of people in Russia have been detained for protesting against the invasion of Ukraine, what the Russian authorities call a “special military operation”, that began on 24 February.

Russians are now bracing for an uncertain and isolated future after international sanctions plunged the economy into crisis and authorities cracked down on independent media and restricted access to Facebook and other social media sites.

“Citizens of Russia - for you, this is a struggle not only for peace in Ukraine, this is a fight for your country,” Zelenskiy said in a televised address, switching from Ukrainian to Russian.

“If you keep silent now, only your poverty will speak for you later. And only repression will answer,” he said.

All forms of protest in Russia have essentially become illegal since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic for what authorities say are safety reasons.

Like the Ukrainian people, Russians now face a choice “between life and slavery,” Zelenskiy said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.12pm GMT

block-time published-time 12.00pm GMT

Turkish president Tayyip Erdogan urged his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin to declare a ceasefire in Ukraine, open humanitarian corridors and sign a peace agreement, his office said.

NATO member Turkey shares a maritime border with Russia and Ukraine in the Black Sea and has good ties with both. Ankara has called Russia’s invasion unacceptable and offered to host talks, but has opposed sanctions on Moscow.

In a statement after a one-hour phone call, the Turkish presidency said Erdogan told Putin that Turkey was ready to contribute to a peaceful resolution of the conflict.

“President Erdogan, who said an immediate ceasefire will not only ease humanitarian concerns in the region but also give the search for a political solution an opportunity, renewed his call of ‘let’s pave the way for peace together’,” his office said.

“Erdogan emphasised the importance of taking urgent steps to achieve a ceasefire, open humanitarian corridors and sign a peace agreement.”

The two leaders also discussed bilateral ties, it said.

Erdogan, who has called Putin a “friend”, had last spoken to the Russian leader on 23 February, a day before Russia launched its invasion. The call makes Erdogan the third NATO leader to speak to Putin since his offensive, following the leaders of Germany and France.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.28pm GMT

block-time published-time 11.48am GMT

Staff at an independent Russian TV station, Dozhd (TV Rain), walked out live on air while declaring ‘No to war’ after being shut down over their coverage of the Ukraine invasion.

The decade-long defiance of Dozhd was silenced, at least for a while, by a brutal new law[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/26/propaganda-filters-truth-ukraine-war-russian-media], passed unanimously in the Russian parliament, which bans news organisations from reporting anything about the war except state-approved press releases.

Journalists and media owners who contravene the new legislation could be jailed for up to 15 years.

block-time published-time 11.47am GMT

Italian luxury label Prada has announced it is suspending retail sales in Russia following the invasion of Ukraine.

Prada is following in the footsteps of other multinationals and luxury brands, including the French giants LVMH, Hermes and Chanel.

“The Prada Group suspends its retail operations in Russia,” the firm said on its Linkedin page, adding that the move was effective from Saturday.

“Our primary concern is for all colleagues and their families affected by the tragedy in Ukraine, and we will continue to support them,” Prada said.

block-time published-time 11.45am GMT

Volunteers in Ukraine are in the process of removing, covering and wrapping statues and windows on many of the country’s historically important buildings for fear of damage.

Kyiv Post reports this statue of Jesus Christ is being stored in a bunker for safety, for the first time since the second world war.

enltrJesus Christ statue being taken out of Armenian Cathedral of Lviv, #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw], to be stored in a bunker for protection. The last time it was taken out was during WWII. pic.twitter.com/mx2YCB4gAT[https://t.co/mx2YCB4gAT]

— KyivPost (@KyivPost) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivPost/status/1500397538482044931?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 11.41am GMT

More than 430,000 people trapped in the port city of Mariupol by encircling Russian forces are nervously preparing to evacuate after a ceasefire was announced, a day after a similar plan fell apart amid accusations that Moscow had failed to respect the agreement.

Local authorities in the south-eastern Ukrainian city said an evacuation supervised by the Red Cross would begin at noon local time (10am GMT) during a nine-hour cessation in Russian attacks.

Attempts to get residents out of the city failed on Saturday after Ukrainian authorities claimed the Russians reneged on an agreement to stop their shelling. The city council was forced to tell residents to return to shelters in the city.

The head of the military in the Russian-controlled territory Donetsk in eastern Ukraine said safe-passage corridors for residents in the besieged city of Volnovakha would also reopen Sunday.

He did not say for how long nor whether a ceasefire would accompany that evacuation.

Ukraine’s deputy prime minister, Olha Stefanishyna, said she did not trust Russia’s word but hoped that the Red Cross would step up to secure the safety of Ukrainian citizens.

Related: Nervous residents of Mariupol prepare to leave during second ceasefire [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/mariupol-residents-prepare-to-leave-second-ceasefire-russia-ukraine]

block-time published-time 11.39am GMT

Pope Francis says Ukraine conflict is "not military operation but a war"

Pope Francis has rejected Russia’s assertion that it is carrying out a “a special military operation” in Ukraine, saying the country was being battered by a war.

“In Ukraine rivers of blood and tears are flowing. This is not only a military operation but a war which is leading to death, destruction and misery,” the pope said in his weekly address to crowds gathered in St. Peter’s Square.

However, as has been the case throughout the 11-day conflict, the pope did not publicly condemn Russia by name for its invasion.

Instead, he repeated his appeal for peace, the creation of humanitarian corridors and a return to negotiations.

“In that martyred country the need for humanitarian assistance is growing by the hour,” the pope said. “Let common sense prevail, let us return to the respect of international law.”

There were many more people than normal gathered in front of St. Peter’s Basilica for the pope’s Sunday appearance, with some holding aloft multi-coloured peace flags as well as the blue and yellow flag of Ukraine.

“The Holy See is willing to do all everything to put itself at the service of peace,” the pope said, adding that two Roman Catholic cardinals had gone to Ukraine to help those in need. “War is madness, please stop,” the pope said.

The crowd gathered outside St. Peter’s Basilica on Sunday to hear Pope Francis speak. Photograph: Vatican Media Handout/EPA

Andriy Yurash, Ukraine’s ambassador to the Vatican, praised the pope for calling the conflict a war.

“I am very, very happy that he said that,” he told Reuters in St. Peter’s Square shortly after the pope ended his address. “Even if the pope did not say the word ‘Russia’, everyone in the world knows who the aggressor that invaded us is and who started this unprovoked war.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.15pm GMT

block-time published-time 11.38am GMT

Israel will continue trying to mediate between Russia and Ukraine even if success seems unlikely, prime minister Naftali Bennett said on Sunday after returning from surprise talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Ukraine has requested that Israel serve as intermediary, citing the Bennett government’s good relations with both Kyiv and Moscow. Bennett’s office said he spoke three times over the weekend with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy.

In televised remarks to his cabinet, Bennett gave no details on his three-hour Kremlin meeting with Putin on Saturday, saying only that it had “the blessing and encouragement of all parties” - an allusion to the United States, among other powers. Bennett and Putin had discussed the mediation idea by phone last week.

Bennett said:

We will continue to assist wherever this is requested, even if the chances are not great. The moment there is even a small opening, and we have the access to all sides and the capability, I see it as a moral duty to make every attempt.

Israel has condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine, expressed solidarity with Kyiv and sent humanitarian aid. But Bennett has not met Ukrainian requests for military assistance and has kept channels open to Russia, with which Israel coordinates operations against Iranian deployments in Syria.

Israeli communications minister, Yoaz Hendel, said he had declined Ukrainian requests to ban nine Russian media outlets on the grounds they were propagandising.

“These (broadcasters) did not meet any kind of threshold that would necessitate their blocking. I would like to remind you that, in a democracy, blocking media channels is a very dramatic event,” Hendel told reporters.

Interior minister Ayelet Shaked said Israel was bracing for a “very, very big wave” of immigration sparked by the conflict.

This could entail taking in more than 200,000 Ukrainians who are Jewish or have Jewish family links and more than 600,000 Russians in the same categories, she said.

In what local media have cast as a bid to prevent Russian oligarchs from fleeing to Israel to evade sanctions, the Israel Airports Authority said it had received instructions not to allow private jets to park for more than 24 hours.

block-time published-time 11.23am GMT

UK universities say that although their priority must be supporting their Ukrainian students, they are also reaching out to Russian students who may be feeling alone but unable to ask for help.

Paul Nightingale, professor of strategy at Sussex’s University’s Science Policy Research Unit, and formerly head of special projects at the government’s Economic and Social Research Council, said all universities should “certainly be kicking out the children of oligarchs and their extended families”.

But, he said: “It is stupid to say we should expel all Russian students. The ones in the UK are mostly anti-Putin. We have to support the people who will turn Russia around in the future.”

Related: Russians at UK universities ‘lonely and guilty’ as they fear for the future[https://www.theguardian.com/education/2022/mar/06/russians-at-uk-universities-lonely-and-guilty-as-they-fear-for-the-future]

block-time published-time 10.59am GMT

Sanctions will take time and ‘Ukraine fatigue’ could blunt the west’s resolve as the cost of living crisis deepens, writes the Guardian’s economics editor, Larry Elliott.

Sanctions can inflict pain without leading to a change of leadership or a policy shift. Iran suffered a 20% reduction in potential output in the two years following the introduction of sanctions over its nuclear programme but didn’t buckle.

So, 10 days into the invasion, the west has a big decision to make. Does it deploy the biggest economic weapon it has left: adding Russia’s oil and gas[https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/eu-sanctions-would-gradually-deplete-russias-oil-revenues-eu-energy-chief-2022-03-03/] exports to the sanctions list?

Related: Russia’s economy is under siege, but will the west break first?[https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/mar/06/russia-economy-sanctions-ukraine-west-cost-of-living-crisis]

block-time published-time 10.56am GMT

France accuses UK of ‘lack of humanity’ over Ukrainian refugees

France’s interior minister has accused the British government of showing a “lack of humanity” when it comes to helping the Ukrainian refugees who have fled the Russian invasion and are now waiting in Calais for permission to join their families in the UK.

Hundreds of Ukrainians have come to the northern French port in the last few days in the hope of crossing the Channel so they can be with relatives who are already established in the UK.

According to the French interior minister, Gérald Darmanin, 400 Ukrainian refugees have presented themselves at Calais border crossings in recent days – only for 150 of them to be told to go away and obtain visas at UK consulates in Paris[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/28/ukrainians-denied-entry-to-uk-despite-being-eligible-for-visa] or Brussels.

In a letter to the UK home secretary, Priti Patel, Darmanin called on the British government to set up a proper consular service in Calais, adding that its response so far was “completely unsuitable” and showed a “lack of humanity“ towards refugees who were often “in distress”.

In the letter, seen by the Agence France-Presse news agency, Darmanin wrote: “It is imperative that your consular representation – exceptionally and for the duration of this crisis – is able to issue visas for family reunification on the spot in Calais.”

The minister said it was “incomprehensible” that the UK was able to provide such services on the ground in Poland on the Ukrainian border but could not do so in the its closest neighbour, France. Darmanin told French radio he had contacted Patel twice requesting that the UK set up a consulate in Calais.

Related: France accuses UK of ‘lack of humanity’ over Ukrainian refugees[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/france-accuse-uk-lack-humanity-over-ukrainian-refugees-consular-services-calais]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.39pm GMT

block-time published-time 10.48am GMT

The United States is considering sending planes to Poland if Warsaw decided to send fighter jets to Ukraine, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on a visit to Moldova on Sunday.

He said:

We are looking actively now at the question of airplanes that Poland may provide to Ukraine and looking at how we might be able to backfill should Poland decide to supply those planes.

I can’t speak to a timeline but I can just say we’re looking at it very, very actively.

The visit came after Blinken visited NATO-member Poland on Saturday as the alliance bolsters its eastern flank in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks during a press conference with Moldovan President at The Presidential Palace in Chisinau Photograph: Olivier Douliery/AFP/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.54am GMT

block-time published-time 10.43am GMT

Here is a first-hand account of the invasion of the Ukrainian city last week, as witnessed by two female journalists.

Tuesday 1 March

The first day of spring. It is snowing. We are sleeping in our clothes with our anxiety backpacks nearby. At night there was bombing again in the suburbs. I sleep only four hours.

Wednesday 2 March

Total silence. Everyone is staying at home, reading the news. The city council building was shelled at night. Some areas are without electricity and water. Nineteen civilians were killed.

Related: Kherson diary: ‘The Russians fire a warning shot. But people are not afraid’[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/kherson-diary-the-russians-fire-a-warning-shot-but-people-are-not-afraid]

block-time published-time 10.39am GMT

Exodus from Ukraine is fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War Two - UNHCR

More than 1.5m refugees have fled Ukraine in the past 10 days in the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since the second world war, the United Nations has said.

The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi, tweeted: “More than 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have crossed into neighbouring countries in 10 days - the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.”

enltrMore than 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have crossed into neighbouring countries in 10 days — the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.

— Filippo Grandi (@FilippoGrandi)

March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/FilippoGrandi/status/1500395166624010249?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Record numbers of refugees headed into Poland from Ukraine with the total number expected to surpass one million people later on Sunday.

Fresh data shows Polish border guards cleared as many as 129,000 people at border crossings on Saturday, the most in a single day since the war started, bringing the total to 922,400.

At the Medyka crossing, the busiest along Poland’s roughly 500km (310 mile) border with Ukraine, refugees streamed past boxes of clothes laid out along a path from the border crossing while Scouts handed out hot tea, food and toiletries.

Refugees, mostly women with children, arriving at the border crossing in Medyka, Poland on Sunday. Photograph: Visar Kryeziu/AP

Some carried babies, others dogs and cats wrapped in blankets. Many joined a queue for buses to the nearby town Przemysl where friends, relatives and volunteers waited to take them to other cities in Poland and beyond.

Poland’s Ukrainian community of around 1.5m is the region’s largest and makes the country a major destination point for refugees, though fleeing Ukrainians also cross to safety through Slovakia, Hungary and northern Romania.

Officials said many of the refugees who have arrived so far had friends and places to go to but the head of the UN refugee agency told Reuters a growing tide of refugees would put pressure on governments to absorb them.

“Frankly these governments have done very well in their initial response,” Grandi said. “They were well prepared. But if the numbers continue to grow it will be a problem.”

Romania has taken in 227,446 Ukrainians, including 31,628 who arrived on Saturday, border police data showed. More than 163,000 entered Hungary since 24 February.

Related: Ukraine has fastest-growing refugee crisis since second world war, says UN[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/ukraine-fastest-growing-refugee-crisis-since-second-world-war]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.10pm GMT

block-time published-time 10.39am GMT

Here is a selection of new images coming in to our picture desk this morning.

Local residents look for cover as they escape from the town of Irpin, after heavy shelling landed on the only escape route used by locals near Kyiv Photograph: Carlos Barría/Reuters Refugees from Ukraine rest in the main train station of Krakow, as they wait to be relocated to other temporary acommodations in Poland or abroad Photograph: Louisa Gouliamaki/AFP/Getty Images Demonstrators with Ukrainian national flags and posters reading “No war!” gather to protest against the Russian military invasion in Ukraine, in Almaty, Kazakhstan Photograph: Vladimir Tretyakov/AP Servicemen of the Ukrainian Military Forces prepare their equipment to repel a tank attack on a position in the Lugansk region Photograph: Anatolii Stepanov/AFP/Getty Images

block-time published-time 10.31am GMT

Ukraine president says Russian forces are preparing to bombard Odessa city

Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelensky has said Russian forces are preparing to shell Odessa, a historic port city on the Black Sea coast.

“They are preparing to bomb Odessa. Odessa!” he said in a video address.

Russians have always come to Odessa. They have always felt only warmth in Odessa. Only sincerity. And now what? Bombs against Odessa? Artillery against Odessa? Missiles against Odessa?

It will be a war crime. It will be a historical crime.

Russian forces have made progress in southern Ukraine since their 24 February invasion, overrunning the city of Kherson and besieging the port of Mariupol, but Odessa has so far been largely spared.

Almost a million people live in Odessa, a cosmopolitan harbour on Ukraine’s southern coast with both Ukrainian and Russian speakers and Bulgarian and Jewish minorities.

The Russian advance from occupied Crimea has in part turned east to link up with Russian-backed separatists and to seize the Azov Sea port of Mariupol.

But another part of the force has also headed west to Kherson, on the road towards Odessa. The city is also close to the Moldovan border and the Russian-occupied region of Transnistria.

During the first 11 days of the conflict, Russian forces from Belarus have also advanced on the capital Kyiv from the northwest and northeast, while another group bombarded the northern city of Kharkiv.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.51am GMT

block-time published-time 10.14am GMT

Labour leader Keir Starmer said he was “very concerned” about reports surrounding the appointment of media mogul Lord Evgeny Lebedev to the House of Lords.

The Sunday Times reported[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/boris-johnsons-russian-crony-evgeny-lebedev-got-peerage-after-spies-dropped-warning-3dp6sw29x] [paywall] British intelligence officials withdrew their assessment that giving a peerage to Lord Lebedev posed a national security risk after Boris Johnson intervened.

Starmer told the BBC’s Sunday Morning programme:

I’m very concerned about that story, because it goes to the heart of national security and there’s at least the suggestion that the government and the prime minister were warned that there was a national security risk in this particular appointment.

I think, in the circumstances, what the appropriate thing is for the Intelligence and Security Committee, which is a cross-party committee in Parliament that can have access to confidential material - I think this case should be referred to that committee so they can look into this story.

This allegation - which is very serious because, of course, it’s a matter of national security - I hope the Government will answer it today.

block-time published-time 9.56am GMT

The US secretary of state Antony Blinken briefly crossed into Ukraine after meeting with the country’s foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba.

The pair met at the border with Poland to discuss western efforts to support Ukraine after Russia invaded 10 days ago.

block-time published-time 9.47am GMT

Olha Stefanishyna said despite agreements over ceasefires, Ukrainians would “never trust” what the Russians say.

The Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister told the BBC’s Sunday Morning programme every Ukrainian citizen and politician “knows the Russian playbook by heart”.

Stefanishyna hit out at Western leaders who refused to impose a no-fly zone over her country, PA Media reported.

She said:

My president was as precise as it is possible and we absolutely support from the bottom of his, of our, hearts [in] everything he says because this is what we feel.

It is very upsetting when the group of 30 leaders or ministers or even ambassadors are... gathering itself in a fancy cabinet, with the fancy furniture, and talking about the fancy thing, knowing that Ukraine was over this table for all of [these] years sitting in this fancy offices.

But now knowing that we can’t be there because we are operating under the bombarding of [the] Russian Federation and knowing that their intelligence also confirms that further severe attacks on the civil population - including carpet bombarding of the cities, which are basically happening these days already in some cities - will be taking place.

Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine Olha Stefanishyna. Photograph: Ukrinform/REX/Shutterstock

block-time published-time 9.35am GMT

Volunteers at a railway station in Lviv in western Ukraine are doing all they can to help refugees flee the violence of Putin’s invasion and reach safety.

Lviv is less than 50 miles from the Polish border and thousands of people have been arriving daily from the rest of country.

The Guardian spent the day with one volunteer, Sergyi Mykolaiv.

block-time published-time 9.22am GMT

British deputy prime minister Dominic Raab described talk of an increased threat of Russia using nuclear weapons in its invasion of Ukraine as rhetoric and brinkmanship.

“I think its rhetoric and brinkmanship,” he told Sky News when asked about a possible nuclear escalation by the Kremlin.

“[Putin’s] got a track record as long as anyone’s arm of misinformation and propaganda... this is a distraction from what the real issues are at hand - which is that it’s an illegal invasion and it is not going according to plan.”

He also again ruled out imposing a no-fly zone over Ukraine, saying this would lead to a “massive escalation” and would feed into the Russian president’s narrative.

Dominic Raab in Westminster. Photograph: Tayfun Salci/ZUMA Press Wire/REX/Shutterstock

He said:

We’re not going to get ourselves into a direct military conflict with Putin because that would be a massive escalation, but also that feeds Putin’s narrative.

Putin wants to say that he’s actually in a struggle with the west - he’s not.

He called no-fly zones “very difficult, very challenging” and said “we will do everything short of that to support Ukrainians”.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.23am GMT

block-time published-time 9.04am GMT

More than 2,034 people were detained at anti-war protests on Sunday in cities across Russia, according to an independent Russian-based protest monitor.

The OVD-Info protest monitoring group said people were detained at protests including in the Russian Pacific port city of Vladivostok and the Siberian city of Irkutsk.

Opposition activists posted videos showing protests in other cities.

Reuters was not able to independently verify the information. Reuters was unable to reach spokespeople for the police in either city, or Russia’s interior ministry

Security forces take anti-war protesters into custody at Manege Square in Moscow, Russia on 3 March 2022. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

The interior ministry warned on Saturday that any attempt to hold unauthorised protests would be prevented and the organisers held to account.

A video posted on social media showed a protester on a square in the far eastern city of Khabarovsk shouting: “No to war - how are you not ashamed” before two policemen detained him.

Police used loudspeakers to tell a small group of protesters in Khabarovsk: “Respected citizens, you are taking part in an unsanctioned public event. We demand you disperse.” Reuters was not able to independently verify the post.

Jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny had called for protests on Sunday across Russia and the rest of the world against Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

About 2,000 people attended an anti-war protest in Kazakhstan’s biggest city Almaty, videos posted on social media showed. Reuters was unable to independently verify the posts.

Demonstrators take part in an anti-war protest in support of Ukraine in front of the monument to Soviet state founder Vladimir Lenin in Almaty, Kazakhstan on 6 March 2022. Photograph: Pavel Mikheyev/Reuters

The crowd shouted slogans such as “No to war” and “Putin is a dickhead”, while waving Ukrainian flags. Activists put blue and yellow balloons in the hand of a Lenin statue towering over the small square where the rally took place.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.26pm GMT

block-time published-time 8.54am GMT

Second ceasefire attempt in Mariupol for evacuations

The city council of Mariupol has said a ceasefire will be observed between 10am and 9pm local time today.

However, the evacuation of civilians was postponed yesterday because Russian forces encircling the city were not respecting an agreed ceasefire.

In a statement, the city council had asked residents to return to shelters in the city and await further information on evacuation.

In a televised broadcast, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said Russia was not observing an agreed ceasefire in some areas, preventing a joint plan to allow civilians to evacuate.

Smoke rises after shelling by Russian forces in Mariupol, Ukraine, Friday, March 4, 2022. Photograph: Evgeniy Maloletka/AP

It comes as the landmine clearance charity The HALO Trust tweeted that it had restored communications with one of its supervisors today.

They said:

No communication, no water, no electricity, no food in stores.#

Ships, artillery, planes are shooting.

The population is already on the edge. But we’re holding on.

I have no words, this is a living hell.

enltrWe briefly regained communications with one of our team on the ground in Mariupol.

We continue to hope and pray for their safety. https://t.co/Q7b0eOy0SH[https://t.co/Q7b0eOy0SH] pic.twitter.com/8fNyRwzlKp[https://t.co/8fNyRwzlKp]

— The HALO Trust (@TheHALOTrust) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/TheHALOTrust/status/1500355721380216832?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.11am GMT

block-time published-time 8.38am GMT

In an address to Ukrainians on Sunday morning, President Volodymyr Zelenskiy praised the many forms of resistance people have chosen to oppose the Russian invasion and called his country “a superpower of spirit.”

The country, he said, was performing at “the maximum of possibilities,” with soldiers fighting but also ordinary people defending towns, hospitals and fire departments. He encouraged residents of occupied areas to protest, if possible.

Ten days into the war, he said, Ukraine had united with “millions of people, which became one whole.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy makes a statement in Kyiv, in Ukraine. Photograph: Ukrainian Presidential Press Service/Reuters

Meanwhile, the Associated Press reported that he made a “desperate” plea to American lawmakers yesterday for the United States to help get more warplanes to his military.

Zelenskiy opened the private video call with US lawmakers by telling them this may be the last time they see him alive. “President Zelenskiy made a desperate plea,” said Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer.

He said Zelenskiy wants the US to facilitate the transfer of planes from Eastern European allies. “I will do all I can to help the administration to facilitate their transfer,” Schumer said.

The US is considering sending American-made F-16s as backfill to former Soviet bloc countries in Eastern Europe that are now members of NATO. They, in turn, would send Ukraine their own Soviet-era MiGs, which Ukrainian pilots are trained to fly.

block-time published-time 8.20am GMT

Russia struck and disabled Ukraine’s Starokostiantyniv military air base with long-range high-precision weapons, Russia’s defence ministry claimed on Sunday.

“The Russia armed forces continue to strike the military infrastructure of Ukraine,” Russian defence ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said.

“On the morning of 6 March, strikes were carried out by high-precision long-range weapons. The Ukrainian air force base near Starokostiantyniv was disabled.”

He said a Ukrainian-controlled S-300 missile system had also been destroyed by Russian rocket forces. He added that Russia had downed 10 Ukrainian planes and helicopters over the past 24 hours.

I’m Tom Ambrose and I’ll be bringing you all the latest news over the next two hours.

block-time published-time 8.06am GMT

Before I hand over to my colleague, Tom Ambrose, here is a quick snap of events from the past few hours. A more detailed summary of events can be found here[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/06/russia-ukraine-war-biden-and-zelenskiy-discuss-more-support-for-ukraine-as-visa-mastercard-pull-out-of-russia-live?page=with:block-6224359f8f084225869781f8#block-6224359f8f084225869781f8].

* An anti-war rally appears to be underway in Almaty, Kazakhstan according to a slew of social media posts this morning.

* The World Health Organization has confirmed “several” attacks on health care centres in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] which resulted in multiple deaths and injuries, the agency’s chief has said.

* South Korea will implement export controls against Belarus for “effectively supporting the Russian invasion of Ukraine”, Seoul’s foreign ministry said on Sunday, Reuters reports.

* The Ukrainian military is reporting that Russia has lost more than 11,000 military personnel since the invasion began.

* Russian forces are targeting populated areas in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] but the strength of resistance has slowed the Russian advance, British military intelligence reveals.

* Ukraine’s emergency services are reporting casualties from a Russian missile strike which hit residential homes in the Zhytomyr region, about 140km north-west of Kyiv.

* The Ukrainian military released its operational report[https://www.facebook.com/100069073844828/posts/270038475308612/?d=n] as of 6am local time, noting its forces have been “ fighting fierce battles to maintain certain borders”.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.33am GMT

block-time published-time 8.00am GMT

An anti-war rally appears to be underway in Almaty, Kazakhstan according to a slew of social media posts this morning.

Almaty-based journalist for The Economist, Joanna Lillis, posted a series of photos from the protest alongside the caption: “Lenin decked out in blue and yellow at anti-war rally in Almaty Kazakhstan - ‘no to bloody dictators’ reads the placard.”

enltrIn #Almaty[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Almaty?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw], #Kazakhstan[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Kazakhstan?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw], locals joined a #protest[https://twitter.com/hashtag/protest?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] rally in support of #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw].

Kazakhstan is formally a political and military ally of #Russia[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Russia?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]. And yet, its people are weary of Russian chauvinism and imperialism which are driving forces of Putin’s barbaric war on Ukraine. pic.twitter.com/qYKDwezsaX[https://t.co/qYKDwezsaX]

— Alex Kokcharov (@AlexKokcharov) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/AlexKokcharov/status/1500367346543861763?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrLenin decked out in blue and yellow at anti-war rally in Almaty #Kazakhstan[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Kazakhstan?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] - "no to bloody dictators" reads the placard #Russia[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Russia?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/T93F9Le1ES[https://t.co/T93F9Le1ES]

— Joanna Lillis (@joannalillis)

March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/joannalillis/status/1500376150018863105?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 7.52am GMT

The World Health Organization has co nfirmed “several” attacks on health care centres in Ukraine which resulted in multiple deaths and injuries, the agency’s chief has said.

Additional reports are being investigated, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a post to Twitter on Sunday.

“Attacks on healthcare facilities or workers breach medical neutrality and are violations of international humanitarian law,” he added.

enltr. @WHO[https://twitter.com/WHO?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] has confirmed several attacks on health care in #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw], causing multiple deaths and injuries. Additional reports are being investigated. Attacks on healthcare facilities or workers breach medical neutrality and are violations of international humanitarian law. #NotATarget[https://twitter.com/hashtag/NotATarget?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] https://t.co/Wdc2jeoHIB[https://t.co/Wdc2jeoHIB]

— Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (@DrTedros) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/DrTedros/status/1500372569425387522?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 7.41am GMT

South Korea will implement export controls against Belarus for “effectively supporting the Russian invasion of Ukraine”, Seoul’s foreign ministry said on Sunday.

The ministry did not detail what measures would be taken, but said they will be applied in a similar way to moves already taken by South Korea against Russia, Reuters reports.

It condemned Moscow as having launched an “armed invasion” of Ukraine.

South Korea said last month it would tighten export controls against Russia by banning shipments of strategic items and join Western countries’ moves to block some Russian banks from the Swift international payments system.

“The Korean government decided today to implement export control measures against Belarus as well, judging that Belarus is effectively supporting the Russian invasion of Ukraine,” the ministry said in a statement.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.43am GMT

block-time published-time 7.32am GMT

The Ukrainian military is reporting that Russia has suffered losses of more than 11,000 military personnel since the invasion began.

A total of 285 Russian tanks and 985 armoured combat vehicles were also reported to have been destroyed as well as 109 artillery systems, 44 aircraft and 48 helicopters, according to a report[https://www.mil.gov.ua/news/2022/03/06/vtrati-rosijskih-okupantiv-stanovlyat-ponad-11-000-osib-znishheno-bilshe-2000-odinicz-vorozhogo-ozbroennya-i-vijskovoi-tehniki-%E2%80%93-generalnij-shtab-zs-ukraini/] by the general staff of the armed forces of Ukraine and published to the website of the Ukrainian ministry of defence.

“Just yesterday, more than 650 wounded members of the Russian occupation forces were taken to the central city hospital in the village of Bryanka, Luhansk region,” the report adds.

“All of them are mostly in serious condition... after providing first aid, they were escorted by an armed convoy from the regular forces of the Russian armed forces to the line of combat to introduce further hostilities as ‘cannon fodder’. It is known that the personnel of the 6th separate motorised rifle regiment is frightened and demoralised, looking for ways to desertion.”

undltr???? ???????? ?????? ?????? ??????????

? 24.02 ?? 06.03 ?????????? ??????????:

???? Total combat losses of the enemy

From 24.02 to 06.03 are approximately: pic.twitter.com/e3lbBNo9o7[https://t.co/e3lbBNo9o7]

— Defence intelligence of Ukraine (@DI_Ukraine) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/DI_Ukraine/status/1500382365050454021?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.34am GMT

block-time published-time 7.08am GMT

Strength of Ukraine resistance 'continues to surprise' Russia - British intelligence report

Russian forces are targeting populated areas in Ukraine but the strength of resistance has slowed the Russian advance, British military intelligence reveals.

In its daily intelligence report[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500357239428763649?s=20&t=45keqm1qzRfT_E_lSR7bGw], the UK’s ministry of defence said the strength of Ukraine’s resistance continues to surprise Russia, which has responded by targeting cities including Kharkiv, Chirnihiv and Mariupol.

The scale and strength of Ukrainian resistance continue to surprise Russia.

[Russia] has responded by targeting populated areas in multiple locations, including Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol.

This is likely to represent an effort to break Ukrainian morale.

Russia has previously used similar tactics in Chechnya in 1999 and Syria in 2016, employing both air and ground-based munitions.

Russia’s supply lines reportedly continue to be targeted, slowing the rate of the advance of their ground forces.”

Russia has repeatedly denied that it is targeting civilian areas.

The intelligence report also says there is a “realistic possibility” that Russia is now “attempting to conceal fuel trucks as regular support trucks in an effort to conceal losses”.

enltrLatest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 06 March 2022

Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/xXx8qpSqRp[https://t.co/xXx8qpSqRp]

???? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ???? pic.twitter.com/nJjcTJTDtX[https://t.co/nJjcTJTDtX]

— Ministry of Defence ???? (@DefenceHQ) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500357239428763649?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.12am GMT

block-time published-time 6.52am GMT

Ukraine’s emergency services are reporting casualties from a Russian missile strike which hit residential homes in the Zhytomyr region, about 140km north-west of Kyiv.

Some 15 private houses were destroyed in the assault in the city of Ovruch, Ukraine’s the state emergency service said in an update[https://t.me/s/dsns_telegram] on its official Telegram account this morning.

In a seperate attack in Korosten, a town just south of Ovruch, one person was reportedly killed and two injured in an overnight rocket attack, according to the agency.

Ten private houses were said to have been destroyed and one building was burnt down. Five children were rescued from the basement.

ukltr??????????? ???????

????????? ????????? ????? ?? ?????????? ??????? ? ?. ????? ?????????? 30 ????????? ???????? ????????, ? ??? 5 ????????. ?????????? ????? ?? ???????????? ?????. ??? ???? ???????? 10 ???? ?? 2 ??. ???????. pic.twitter.com/QgUuh4NDid[https://t.co/QgUuh4NDid]

— DSNS.GOV.UA (@SESU_UA) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/SESU_UA/status/1500363261740527619?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 6.35am GMT

The Ukrainian military has just released its operational report[https://www.facebook.com/100069073844828/posts/270038475308612/?d=n] as of 6am local time, noting its forces have been “ fighting fierce battles to maintain certain borders”.

A defence operation in the eastern part of the Donetsk operational district is underway while efforts are focused on defending the city of Mariupol, the military said.

According to the report, Russian forces were stopped from an advance towards the Dnipropetrovsk region from Balaklia and an operation to defend the city of Chernihiv is underway.

The report references the “heavy losses in weapons, equipment and personnel” alongside the losses of 88 Russian aircraft and helicopters.

“Some enemy pilots who catapulted and survived were found by Ukrainian soldiers. They have received medical treatment and are already testifying about the Putin regime’s crimes against humanity,” the report read.

Due to the resistance of the entire Ukrainian people, Russian troops have been “demoralised” with “extremely low moral and psychological state... due to awareness of the real state of affairs” Ukraine’s general staff of the armed forces said.

Local residents help clear the rubble of a home that was destroyed by a suspected Russian airstrike which killed at least six people in Markhalivka, Ukraine, on Saturday, 5 March. Photograph: Marcus Yam/LOS ANGELES TIMES/REX/Shutterstock

block-time published-time 6.03am GMT

Biden and Zelenskiy discuss more support for Ukraine

US President Joe Biden spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy on Saturday to discuss ongoing efforts to impose sanctions on Russia and speed up US military, humanitarian and economic assistance.

A White House statement[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/05/readout-of-president-bidens-call-with-president-zelenskyy-of-ukraine-6/] of a readout of the call reads:

President Biden highlighted the ongoing actions undertaken by the United States, its Allies and partners, and private industry to raise the costs on Russia for its aggression in Ukraine.

In particular, he [Biden] welcomed the decision this evening by Visa and Mastercard to suspend service in Russia.

President Biden noted his administration is surging security, humanitarian, and economic assistance to Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] and is working closely with Congress to secure additional funding.”

Zelenskiy confirmed the call, writing over Twitter early Sunday morning:

As part of the constant dialogue, I had another conversation with @POTUS. The agenda included the issues of security, financial support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions against Russia.”

enltrAs part of the constant dialogue, I had another conversation with @POTUS[https://twitter.com/POTUS?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]. The agenda included the issues of security, financial support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions against Russia.

— ????????? ?????????? (@ZelenskyyUa) March 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1500261389935517700?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.05am GMT

block-time published-time 6.02am GMT

Thousands of Ukrainian refugees continue to flee their homeland seeking safety in neighbouring countries.

More than 1.3 million Ukrainians [https://data2.unhcr.org/en/situations/ukraine] have crossed borders since the Russian invasion[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/05/zelenskiy-lashes-out-at-nato-over-no-fly-zone-as-russian-attacks-intensify] started on the 24 February in what the United Nations is now calling Europe’s fastest-moving refugee crisis since the end of the second world war. The figure is expected to reach 1.5 million later today.

“This is the fastest-moving refugee crisis we have seen in Europe[https://www.theguardian.com/world/europe-news] since the end of the second world war,” UNHCR head Filippo Grandi said.

A policeman helps Ukrainians to carry their bag at the border in Kroscienko, Poland, on 5 March. Photograph: Enrico Mattia Del Punta/NurPhoto/REX/Shutterstock An exhausted refugee is seen inside the train station at the Polish border town of Przemysl. Photograph: Hesther Ng/SOPA Images/REX/Shutterstock More than 1.3 million Ukrainians have crossed borders since the Russian invasion started on the 24 February, the UN estimates. Photograph: Sachelle Babbar/ZUMA Press Wire/REX/Shutterstock A Ukrainian mother takes her son into her arms to keep him warm, inside a Warsaw refugee centre in Poland. Photograph: Daniel Ceng Shou-Yi/ZUMA Press Wire/REX/Shutterstock

block-time published-time 5.52am GMT

A representative of the Ukrainian Embassy in Washington has said 3,000 US volunteers responded to the Ukraine’s appeal for foreigners to join the “international legion” to help fight the war.

The official said the 3,000 volunteers answered the call in an interview with the Voice of America[https://www.voanews.com/a/american-veterans-volunteer-to-fight-in-ukraine-/6470781.html] news service.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy announced he would be forming an official legion of foreign volunteers, adding just days ago that an estimates 16,000 foreigners had signed up, mostly from other post-Soviet states such as Georgia and Belarus.

block-time published-time 5.39am GMT

Senior US officials traveled to Venezuela on Saturday to meet with President Nicolas Maduro’s government, seeking to determine whether Caracas is prepared to back away from its close ties to Russia amid its invasion of Ukraine, according to a person familiar with the matter, Reuters reports.

The trip is the highest-level US visit to Venezuela in years after the two countries broke diplomatic relations amid a campaign of US sanctions and diplomatic pressure aimed at ousting Maduro, a longtime ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

block-time published-time 5.37am GMT

China opposes any move that adds 'fuel to the flames'

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke earlier by phone with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, who said Beijing opposes any moves that “add fuel to the flames” in Ukraine, according to the Chinese Foreign Ministry and as reported by the Associated Press.

Yi said the “evolution” of the situation in Ukraine is “something China does not want to see,” adding that the Ukraine crisis should be solved through “dialogue and negotiation” and called on the United States, Nato, and the European Union to engage in “equal dialogue” with Russia. He said they should “pay attention to the negative impact of Nato’s continuous eastward expansion on Russia’s security.”

“China supports all efforts conducive to de-escalation and political settlement of the situation, while opposing any moves which are adverse to promoting a diplomatic solution and add fuel to the flames,” Wang said.

With international outrage and sanctions mounting against Russia, Beijing is scrambling to avoid being tainted by association with Moscow while also maintaining their increasingly close ties.

Russia’s President Vladimir Putin seen with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Photograph: Greg Baker/AP

Once Cold War rivals, China and Russia have moved increasingly closer since Xi Jinping took power nearly a decade ago, driven by their shared desire to confront US power.

According to Agence France-Presse, China seems to have been “caught flat-footed” by Russia’s military offensive, fierce Ukrainian resistance, and the volume of the resulting international anti-Kremlin backlash.

The situation has effectively paralysed China, according to Richard Ghiasy, an expert at the Hague Centre for Strategic Studies.

“Security interests virtually always trump economic interests” in China’s calculus, and it will not fundamentally shift toward a more pro-Ukraine stance, he told AFP.

Russia is “a giant, nuclear-armed and resource-rich neighbour” that China won’t risk agitating, Ghiasy said.

Beijing, which has long demanded respect for territorial integrity in border disputes with its own neighbours, has been forced into rhetorical contortions on Ukraine to avoid upsetting Russia.

While maintaining lip service to national sovereignty, China has insisted that Moscow’s security concerns regarding Ukraine and the broader expansion of the US-led North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (Nato) are valid.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.42am GMT

block-time published-time 5.04am GMT

Summary

Hello it’s Samantha Lock with you as we continue to monitor the crisis unfolding in Ukraine.

Russia’s war on its neighbour continues for its tenth day and well into its second week. It is 7am in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] and here is where the situation currently stands:

* US president Joe Biden spoke with Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, to discuss ongoing efforts to impose sanctions on Russia and speed up US military, humanitarian and economic assistance. The White House said during the call the pair also discussed talks between Russia andUkraine, but offered no additional details.

* Britain’s prime ministerBoris Johnson issued a six-point plan in reaction to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] and is urging other leaders to endorse it in efforts to ensure Russia fails in its apparent attempt to take over its democratic neighbour.

* Zelenskiy also said he spoke to SpaceX and Tesla boss Elon Musk, announcing the country will receive more of its Starlink satellite internet terminals[https://www.theguardian.com/world/video/2022/mar/06/zelenskiy-invites-elon-musk-to-ukraine-after-war-following-starlink-commitment-video] this coming week.

* US-based credit card giants Visa and Mastercard announced they will suspend their Russian business operations.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/05/visa-and-mastercard-will-both-suspend-operations-in-russia]

* The Ukrainian military said Russian forces continue to focus on Kyiv while moving ahead with assaults on Kharkiv, Mykolaiv and the creation of a land corridor with Crimea, in its latest operational report[https://www.facebook.com/GeneralStaff.ua/posts/265782555734830]. The report said aircraft from airports in Belarusian territory were involved in air strikes on military and civilian infrastructure in Kyiv and Zhytomyr.

* US-based think tank and policy research organisation, the Institute for the Study of War, released a report[https://www.understandingwar.org/backgrounder/russian-offensive-campaign-assessment-march-5] saying Russian forces in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] may have entered a possibly brief operational pause as they prepare to resume operations against Kyiv, Kharkiv, Mykolayiv, and possibly Odesa in the next 24-48 hours.

* The relief effort to distribute humanitarian aid to Ukraine has stepped up as volunteers across the country work tirelessly to gather basic necessities to give to refugees and prepare food supplies for the army to be sent to the frontline.

* The humanitarian situation in the southern Ukrainian port of Mariupol is “catastrophic” and it is vital that civilians be evacuated, a senior official from the NGO Doctors Without Borders warned.

* The International Monetary Fund announced it could approve[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/05/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-nato-gives-green-light-to-bombing-with-lack-of-no-fly-zone-says-zelenskiy?page=with:block-62239b398f08422586977c21#block-62239b398f08422586977c21] $1.4 billion emergency funding as early as next week as the body warns of war’s “severe impact” on the global economy.

* Western sanctions on Russia are a stumbling block to revived Iran nuclear deal, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said.

* Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba met with US secretary of state Antony Blinken, saying Ukraine “will win this war” but needs more help from Nato.

* Ukraine’s foreign minister, Dymtro Kuleba, appealed for more military assistance while Reuters reports Zelenskiymade[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/05/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-nato-gives-green-light-to-bombing-with-lack-of-no-fly-zone-says-zelenskiy?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-62238b9a8f08d4a3a989fb2d#block-62238b9a8f08d4a3a989fb2d] a “desperate plea” for eastern Europe to provide Russian-made aircraft to Ukraine. In a call with US senators, he is also understood to have called for a no-fly zone, lethal aid, a ban on Russian oil and a suspension of Visa and Mastercard in Russia.

* The US is reportedly in discussions with Poland on the possibility of Poland providing more fighter jets to Ukraine with the US potentially agreeing to backfill Poland’s fleet of fighter planes if Warsaw decides to transfer its used MiG-29s to Ukraine, four US officials told POLITICO[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/03/05/white-house-deal-fighter-jets-ukraine-00014424].

* Russia and Ukraine plan[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/05/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-nato-gives-green-light-to-bombing-with-lack-of-no-fly-zone-says-zelenskiy?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-622398bc8f08d4a3a989fbd7#block-622398bc8f08d4a3a989fbd7] another round of talks on Monday, even though previous talks that produced an agreement to a limited ceasefire in order to protect corridors for civilian have not been honoured by Russia.

* The United Nations recorded 351 civilians killed and 707 injured in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine], according[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/05/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-nato-gives-green-light-to-bombing-with-lack-of-no-fly-zone-says-zelenskiy?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-62239b1e8f08422586977c1d#block-62239b1e8f08422586977c1d] to the UN high commissioner for human rights.

* Tens of thousands joined rallies around the world in support of Ukraine over the weekend, gathering in cities across Europe, the US and South America[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/06/tens-of-thousands-join-rallies-around-the-world-in-support-of-ukraine] to demand an end to Russia’s invasion.

For any tips and feedback please contact me through Twitter[https://twitter.com/Samantha__Lock] or at samantha.lock@theguardian.com

2022-03-06T05:04:35Z 2022-03-08T21:47:46Z https://media.guim.co.uk/e0750680f5b2285da919737bba4b38500dae0881/219_0_3281_1969/500.jpg[https://media.guim.co.uk/e0750680f5b2285da919737bba4b38500dae0881/219_0_3281_1969/500.jpg] A currency trader walks near the screen showing the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollar and South Korean. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. Local residents evacuate as Russian forces advance and continue to bombard the town with artillery, in Irpin, Ukraine. Commuters look at a graffiti by Italian urban artist ‘TVBoy’, Salvatore Benintende, titled ‘Stop The Madness’ depicting Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky holding a Stop sign in the national colors in protest to the ongoing Russian attacks. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi speaking at her weekly press conference. Ivan Kuliak wore a ‘Z’ taped across the front of his shirt, a symbol that has come to symbolise support for the Russian invasion of Ukraine. A view of damaged School 116 in Petrovsko after a shelling, in the pro-Russian separatists-controlled Donetsk, Ukraine. The logo of KPMG. Ukrainian soldiers help people trying to leave the city amid the collapsed structures and debris on March 6, 2022 in Irpin, Ukraine. A factory and a store burn after having been bombarded in Irpin. Residents run for cover as they escape from Irpin after heavy shelling on the only escape route used by locals. Civilians cross the rubble of a damaged bridge in Irpin near Kyiv. Demonstrators in Chile Demonstration in Cardiff, Wales

Protest in New York Demonstration in Paris Demonstrators in Mexico City. A Ukrainian volunteer fighter helps carry a child for local residents as they evacuate Irpin on foot as Russian forces advance and continue to bombard the area with artillery. The Netflix logo is seen on top of their office building in Hollywood, California. A policeman and a civilian take cover from shelling, in Irpin, Ukraine. Denmark’s Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen speaks during a press conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Russian conductor Tugan Sokhiev rehearsing with the Orchestre national du Capitole of Toulouse at the Halle aux Grains venue in Toulouse, south-western France. Civilians evacuate during a Russian attacks on the city of Irpin, northwest of Kyiv. A blast hit just a few metres away during a civilian evacuation in Irpin, Ukraine A resident passing a house on fire after heavy shelling on the only escape route used by locals to leave the town of Irpin, while Russian troops advance towards the capital An Ukrainian serviceman looks through binoculars towards the town of Stoyanka at a checkpoint before the last bridge on the road that connects Stoyanka with Kyiv Demonstrators hold placard and flags during a demonstration in support of Ukraine in Parliament Square, in London A woman fleeing the Russian invasion of Ukraine warms her hands at a fireplace after crossing the border from Ukraine to Poland, at the border checkpoint in Medyka Lesia Ivashchenko and Valerii Fylymonov kiss at their wedding at a checkpoint in Kyiv, Ukraine Two Ukrainian territorial defence fighters tied the knot amid Russian’s invasion of their country A helmet is placed on top of Lesia’s head after she married a fellow Ukrainian fighter. Russian police detain a participant at an anti-war rally in Moscow on 6 March. A protester is detained by police at a demonstration in St Petersburg on 6 March. A protester is detained by police at a demonstration in St Petersburg on 6 March. The crowd gathered outside St. Peter’s Basilica on Sunday to hear Pope Francis speak. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks during a press conference with Moldovan President at The Presidential Palace in Chisinau Refugees, mostly women with children, arriving at the border crossing in Medyka, Poland on Sunday. Local residents look for cover as they escape from the town of Irpin, after heavy shelling landed on the only escape route used by locals near Kyiv Refugees from Ukraine rest in the main train station of Krakow, as they wait to be relocated to other temporary acommodations in Poland or abroad Demonstrators with Ukrainian national flags and posters reading “No war!” gather to protest against the Russian military invasion in Ukraine, in Almaty, Kazakhstan Servicemen of the Ukrainian Military Forces prepare their equipment to repel a tank attack on a position in the Lugansk region Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine Olha Stefanishyna. Dominic Raab in Westminster. Security forces take anti-war protesters into custody at Manege Square in Moscow, Russia on 3 March 2022. Demonstrators take part in an anti-war protest in support of Ukraine in front of the monument to Soviet state founder Vladimir Lenin in Almaty, Kazakhstan on 6 March 2022. Smoke rises after shelling by Russian forces in Mariupol, Ukraine, Friday, March 4, 2022. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy makes a statement in Kyiv, in Ukraine. Local residents help clear the rubble of a home that was destroyed by a suspected Russian airstrike which killed at least six people in Markhalivka, Ukraine, on Saturday, 5 March. A policeman helps Ukrainians to carry their bag at the border in Kroscienko, Poland, on 5 March. An exhausted refugee is seen inside the train station at the Polish border town of Przemysl. More than 1.3 million Ukrainians have crossed borders since the Russian invasion started on the 24 February, the UN estimates. A Ukrainian mother takes her son into her arms to keep him warm, inside a Warsaw refugee centre in Poland. Russia’s President Vladimir Putin seen with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220306ei36000b5


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Sink as Ukraine Onslaught Continues; Brent Tops $130
2340 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日 05:13 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Germany Manufacturing Turnover/Orders; UK Household Finance Review; updates from Volkswagen , Sberbank , SAS, Assa Abloy

Opening Call:

European shares face steep losses Monday as Russian attacks on Ukraine escalated, with rising risk aversion pushing the dollar, Treasury bonds and gold higher. In Asia, stocks tumbled, Brent topped $130, while gold nudged $2,000.

Equities:

European and U.S. stock futures dropped sharply early Monday after Russian forces intensified strikes across Ukraine and as the threat of a potential ban on imports of Russian oil helped spur a surge in energy prices.

In Asia, major stock benchmarks were deep in the red, with Japan's Nikkei down more than 3% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng hovering close at a multiyear low.

"I expect cross-asset volatility will remain high as markets quantify the inflationary impact of higher commodity prices versus demand-destruction impact," wrote Stephen Innes, Managing Partner at SPI Asset Management.

"But at the heart of the matter, for most investors, any kind of 'worst case scenario' is much easier to digest than a 'best case scenario.'"

Overnight, Russian forces pushed toward the Ukraine capital, Kyiv, and the country's second-largest city, Kharkiv, while killing dozens of civilians and disrupting evacuation efforts.

After beating off an initial Russian offensive, Ukraine is now preparing for a second wave of Russian attacks focused on major population centers around the country, Ukraine's national security adviser, Oleksiy Danilov , said in a social-media post Sunday.

The Russian plan, he said, is to encircle Ukrainian forces and "create a situation of humanitarian disaster for the civilian population."

Forex:

The dollar strengthened further against most major currencies, boosted by the continuing Russia-Ukraine war and a renewed surge in commodity prices.

The euro continued its descent against the dollar, with Danske Bank saying: "Our 12-month forecast of [EUR/USD] 1.08 is now looking like mild dollar strength but just a few months ago it was a very bullish dollar forecast."

OANDA said the euro remains very vulnerable to the Russia-Ukraine crisis and its weakness is being accelerated as the U.S. economy still shows signs of a strong consumer that could handle upcoming inflation surges.

Read: Dollar Strength Builds as Ukraine War Deepens

Other News:

China's foreign-exchange reserves--the world's largest--likely fell $6 billion to $3.216 trillion in February, according to a Wall Street Journal poll of economists, as the valuation of dollar bond assets declined. The reserves dropped to $3.222 trillion in January as the dollar gained.

Bonds:

Yields for U.S. government debt continued to fall early Monday, extending Friday's drop, even after the February U.S. employment report signaled the economy was picking up.

"Rather than getting better, financial conditions are still tightening, back to the levels of last March when traders worried about a Covid-19 spike in Europe," said FHN Financial Executive Vice President Jim Vogel. "The Fed can no longer read the markets."

Energy:

Oil prices rose to their highest level since 2008, with front-month Brent gaining 10% to move above $130, as traders reacted to news that the U.S. and its European allies were considering banning imports of Russian oil.

Such a move would "likely continue to severely curtail Russian seaborne oil exports, due to the threat of additional sanctions or of public censure." said Goldman Sachs , citing public backlash after Shell purchased a cargo of Russian Urals crude on Friday. There are no signs of Chinese purchases of Russian crude either, it added.

---

Natural gas prices could rise further as Europe weighs options to wean itself off Russian natural gas, according to a Singapore-based trader.

The trader said European buyers are actively considering importing liquefied natural gas cargoes from northeast Asia, even though Asia typically is the world's largest LNG-importing region. Front-month European benchmark TTF natural gas futures last closed 6% higher at EUR204.15/MWh, equivalent to about $64/MMBtu, more than double its week-ago price.

Front-month Asian LNG Japan-Korea-Marker benchmark futures last closed 11% lower at $38.54/MMBtu; its up 38% in the last one week.

Other News:

Coal output may rise via the restarting of idled mines or increased production at operational pits to help ease the energy crisis exacerbated by the Ukraine-Russia conflict, Jean-Sebastien Jacques , the former Rio Tinto , told WSJ.

"To deal with the immediate energy situation in Europe, all options should be explored, including increased use of coal in some countries temporarily."

However, he doesn't reckon the fuel shortage, which has propelled coal prices to record highs, will result in new mines. "There is no support for that at all." Jacques said there is no turning around the global energy transition, but it was important to acknowledge the shift to a low-carbon economy could take decades to play out.

Metals:

Gold futures headed towards $2,000 an ounce, boosted by safe-haven demand.

Goldman Sachs said precious metals are likely to find support from macroeconomic headwinds due to a "deteriorating growth [and] inflation mix in developed markets." It sees "upside risks to our year-end targets of $2,150/toz for gold and $30/toz for silver."

----

Nickel prices jumped more than 14% in Asia on concerns about supply shortages. There appears to be tight physical supply on rising geopolitical tensions and margin calls that have led to a short squeeze, said Citi Research.

However, extreme backwardation and low nickel deliveries in the past six months seem to be the real reasons behind moves in the market. The front-month LME nickel contract climbs 14.1% to $33,000.00 per ton.

Other News:

Among precious metals, palladium seems like the best hedge against the possibility of restrictions on exports by the Russian government, said Goldman Sachs . There are also "sharply growing risks to the global economy" due to the ongoing war in Ukraine.

Goldman Sachs said palladium demand is inelastic and there are low inventories of the metal outside of Russia. prices gained 3.2% early Monday and have risen more than 31% from a week earlier.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Oil Tops $130 a Barrel as Russian Attacks Escalate

Oil buyers racing to replace Russia' taboo crude are paying record premiums for barrels that can be delivered now rather than later, reflecting worries about adequate near-term fuel supplies and expectations that high prices will reduce consumption and encourage drilling.

Prices for April deliveries of crude have shot up since Russia invaded Ukraine and buyers began shunning the aggressor's oil exports. The main U.S. price last week topped $110 a barrel for the first time in more than a decade and in off-hours trading late Sunday, they burst above $130 following fresh attacks, mounting civilian casualties and a push by U.S. lawmakers to ban Russian oil imports.

   
 
 
Ukraine Faces Fresh Wave of Attacks Focused on Population Centers

Russian forces intensified strikes across Ukraine, pushing toward the capital, Kyiv, and the country's second-largest city, Kharkiv, while killing dozens of civilians and disrupting evacuation efforts.

After beating off an initial Russian offensive, Ukraine is now preparing for a second wave of Russian attacks focused on major population centers around the country, Ukraine's national security adviser, Oleksiy Danilov , said in a social-media post Sunday.

   
 
 
The ECB 's Inflation Problem Is More About Supply Than Demand

U.S. and European central bankers both confront inflation problems, but with different roots that could lead the Americans to raise interest rates more and to a higher level than their continental counterparts.

   
 
 
Private Equity Faces Uncertainty After Record-Setting Year, Report Says

Private-equity managers are continuing to invest at a record pace while attempting to manage uncertainty around interest rates, inflation and global geopolitics, a report from consulting firm Bain & Co . said.

   
 
 
Dollar Strength Builds as Ukraine War Deepens

Escalating conflict between Russia and Ukraine has sent investors dashing to safer assets, propelling the dollar to its highest level since the coronavirus-induced volatility of two years ago.

The ICE U.S. Dollar index, which tracks the currency against a basket of others, surged as high as 98.92 this past week, its highest level since May 2020. It finished the week with a 2.1% jump, one of the largest in the past five years.

   
 
 
China's January-February Exports Growth Slowed

BEIJING-China's exports grew at a slower pace in the January-February period but was better than market expectations.

Outbound shipment rose 16.3% in the first two months of 2022 from the year-earlier period, easing from 20.9% growth in December, the General Administration of Customs said Monday. The result was higher than the 15.0% increase expected by economists polled by The Wall Street Journal.

   
 
 
U.S. Officials Meet With Regime in Venezuela, to Discuss Oil Exports to Replace Russia's

The Biden administration is seeking to ease oil sanctions on Venezuela as part of a broader U.S. strategy to temper oil prices that have skyrocketed because of Russia's war in Ukraine, according to people familiar with the matter.

U.S. officials began rare face-to-face meetings with Venezuelan officials in Caracas over the weekend, with a view to allowing Venezuelan crude oil back on to the open international market, these people said.

   
 
 
Investors See Bullish Signals Under the Stock Market's Surface

It's been a rocky spell for stocks. Under the market's surface, some investors see promising signs.

7 Mar 2022 00:13 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Sink as Ukraine -2-

The S&P 500 has risen or fallen at least 1% in six of the past nine trading days as anxieties over the war in Ukraine, high inflation and the path of interest rates buffet the market. The benchmark U.S. stock index recently suffered its first correction, or decline of at least 10% from a recent high, since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is now down 9.2% this year, including last week's 1.3% fall.

   
 
 
Russia Permits Payments to Foreign Bondholders, but Only With Rubles

Russia will allow borrowers to make payments on their overseas debt, but only using rubles even for bonds denominated in foreign currencies.

Making debt payments in the ruble, which has lost almost 40% of its value this year, could still leave Russia and its companies in default on dollar-denominated debt.

   
 
 
Russian Banks Turn to China to Sidestep Cutoff From Payments Systems

Russian banks that have been cut off from global payments networks are turning to China's state-owned UnionPay system as the country tries to sidestep boycotts by Western businesses for its invasion of Ukraine.

Visa Inc . and Mastercard Inc . said they are suspending their Russian operations, making it difficult for Russians to buy goods from abroad. The moves by the two companies go beyond sanctions issued against many Russian banks.

   
 
 
China's Robust Growth Target Points to More Stimulus Ahead

HONG KONG-By calling for growth of 5.5% this year, China's leaders have set a relatively high bar for an economy facing a litany of challenges at home and abroad-and paved the way, economists say, for more aggressive stimulus measures in the coming months.

Officials in Beijing said Saturday that they would seek to expand gross domestic product by 5.5% this year. While that target is lower than any annual target since China began setting such benchmarks in 1994, economists say it is actually a much heavier lift than its 2021 target of 6% or more, given last year's Covid-related statistical distortions and the mounting headwinds facing the world's second-largest economy.

   
 
 
Iran Nuclear Deal Threatened by Russian Demands Over Ukraine Sanctions

Fresh demands from Russia threatened to derail talks to restore the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, as Moscow said it wanted written guarantees that Ukraine-related sanctions won't prevent it from trading broadly with Tehran under a revived pact.

The demands, made by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Saturday and dismissed by U.S. officials on Sunday, came as Western and Iranian officials said they were near to reaching a deal to restore the nuclear pact, which lifted most international sanctions on Iran in exchange for tight but temporary restrictions on Tehran's nuclear programs.

   
 
 
This Russian Metals Giant Might Be Too Big to Sanction

From its base at a former Arctic gulag, Russia's MMC Norilsk Nickel PJSC digs up a large portion of two metals that are essential to greener transport and computer chips.

So far the U.S. and its allies haven't sanctioned the company, or its oligarch chief executive, underscoring the dilemma some analysts say governments face in seeking to punish Russia without hurting their own access to key commodities.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Monday

06:45/SWI: Feb Unemployment

07:00/GER: Jan Retail Trade

07:00/GER: Jan Manufacturing orders

07:00/GER: Jan Manufacturing turnover

07:00/UK: Feb Halifax House Price Index

07:00/DEN: Jan Industrial production & new orders

07:00/NOR: Jan Industrial Production Index

08:00/AUT: Feb Wholesale Price Index

08:00/SWI: Feb SNB foreign currency reserves

08:00/CZE: 4Q Wages

09:00/ICE: Feb External trade, preliminary figures

09:30/UK: 4Q Household Finance Review

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 07, 2022 00:13 ET (05:13 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220307ei3700058


Live updates: US, UK announce ban on Russian oil imports
10147 字
2022 年 3 月 8 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
WASHINGTON — President Biden announced Tuesday that the U.S. is “targeting the main artery of Russia’s economy” by banning imports of Russian oil, the latest sanction intended to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

“We will not be part of subsidizing Putin’s war,” he said in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.

Biden’s announcement came amid rising pressure from Democrats and Republicans, and it reflects a willingness to accept the political risk of rising gas prices to economically retaliate against Russia.

“Defending freedom is going to cost,” Biden said. “It’s going to cost us as well in the United States.”

Although Biden has tried to work in concert with European allies, he acknowledged that many are not announcing a similar ban because they’re more reliant on Moscow for oil and gas.

“So we can take this step when others can not,” he said. “But we’re working closely with Europe and our partners to develop a long term strategy to reduce their dependence on Russian energy as well.”

___

LONDON — Britain is joining the United States in announcing a ban on imports of Russian oil.

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng says oil and oil products from Russia will be phased out by the end of the year. He said the transition period “will give the market, businesses and supply chains more than enough time to replace Russian imports,” which account for 8% of U.K. demand.

Kwarteng said the U.K. would work with its other oil suppliers, including the U.S., the Netherlands and the Gulf states, to secure extra supplies.

President Joe Biden announced a ban on Russian oil imports, toughening the toll on Russia’s economy in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine. It follows pleas from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to U.S. and Western officials to cut off the imports, which had been a glaring omission in the massive sanctions put in place on Russia over the invasion.

___

MOSCOW - The Kremlin says that Russian President Vladimir Putin had another phone call with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to discuss the situation in Ukraine.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that he also spoke to Bennett on Tuesday and thanked him for his mediation.

Bennett visited Moscow for a meeting with Putin on Saturday, trying to help broker an end to the war with Ukraine. After meeting with Putin, Bennett spoke to Zelenskyy and French President Emmanuel Macron and also visited Berlin on Saturday for talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Bennett also spoke to Putin by phone on Sunday.

____

LONDON — Sports apparel and shoe company Adidas is the latest Western brand to halt its operations in Russia because of the Ukraine invasion.

The company said Tuesday that it has suspended the operations of its retail stores and e-commerce website in Russia until further notice, though it continues to pay its employees there.

Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, said it will make future business decisions and take action as needed, “prioritizing our employee’s safety and support.”

“As a company, we strongly condemn any form of violence and stand in solidarity with those calling for peace,” the company said in a statement.

It’s also donating 1 million euros ($1.1 million) to refugee and children’s charities and clothing to the Global Aid Network for people in Ukraine and neighboring countries.

Last week, Adidas suspended its partnership with the Russian Football Union. Nike has also shut its stores in Russia.

Sales in Russia account for only about 3% of Adidas’s total global revenue, according to company data.

____

WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden’s top intelligence official said Tuesday the U.S. believes Russia underestimated the strength of Ukraine’s resistance before launching an invasion that has likely caused thousands of Russian casualties.

Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines told a congressional panel that U.S. officials believe Russian President Vladimir Putin feels “aggrieved” by Russia’s failure to subdue Ukraine and that he perceives that he cannot afford to lose the war. But what Putin might consider a victory could change given the escalating costs of the conflict to Russia, Haines said.

Despite Putin’s announcement that he would raise Russia’s alert level for nuclear weapons, Haines said the U.S. has not observed unusual changes in Russia’s nuclear force posture.

Haines said it is “unclear at this stage” whether Russia will try to conquer all of Ukraine, something that would require more resources than Putin has committed.

___

HELSINKI — Flights from the eastern Finnish town of Savonlinna near the Russian border to the capital, Helsinki, have been temporarily suspended due to disruptions in GPS signal in eastern parts of the Nordic country, preventing pilots from landing safely.

Finnish communications authority Traficom confirmed Tuesday that GPS disruptions have been recorded in eastern Finland, but declined to comment on how long or how wide the disruptions were.

Transaviabaltika, a Lithuanian airline that operates on the Finnish domestic route with a small turboprop plane, said its pilots have tried landing several times at the Savonlinna airport since Sunday, but have been forced to turn back to Helsinki each time as the GPS signal was disrupted.

Finland shares a 1,340-kilometer (833-mile) land border with Russia. The lakeside town of Savonlinna is a mere 70 kilometers (43 miles) from the border.

In late 2018, the Finnish government said the country’s GPS location signals were intentionally disrupted in the northern Lapland region and the country’s prime minister acknowledged that it was possible that Russia was the disrupting party.

At the same time, the Norwegian Defense Ministry said Russian forces in the Arctic disturbed GPS location signals during a large NATO drill in the country.

___

GENEVA — The international scientific laboratory that is home to the world’s largest atom smasher says it is suspending Russia’s observer status and halting any new collaboration with Russia or its institutions “until further notice.”

The European Organization for Nuclear Research, known as CERN, said its 23 member states — all European, plus Israel — condemned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Ukraine is one of seven associate member states, and Russia, like the United States, Japan and the European Union, has had observer status.

The CERN council made the decisions about Russia at a special meeting on Tuesday and expressed its support “to the many members of CERN’s Russian scientific community who reject this invasion.”

CERN is home to the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s largest particle accelerator.

___

HELSINKI — Finland will donate 15 decommissioned ambulances and two fire trucks to Ukraine, and they are expected to be delivered in the country within a week, Finnish media outlets say.

Ten of the ambulances come from hospital districts across Finland and five from rescue services, Finnish public broadcaster YLE said Tuesday.

The ambulances have just recently been taken out of service, YLE said, quoting health and rescue officials. Decommissioned ambulances are usually sold, but now it was decided to donate them to Ukraine, YLE said.

Finland will also give humanitarian help to Moldova including a field kitchen, five large multi-purpose tents for emergency accomodation and two shower tents to be used by refugees from Ukraine.

A Danish ambulance services and patient transportation company Falck said last week that it donated 30 ambulances to Ukraine and neighboring countries.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — A Latvian lawmaker has traveled to Ukraine to fight alongside Ukrainians, the Baltic country’s Justice Minister Janis Bordans said Tuesday.

Juris Jurass, who is the chairman of the Saeima assembly’s Legal Affairs Committee and a member of the same party as Bordans, “has volunteered to defend the territory of Ukraine and to fight against the invaders,” the justice minister said.

“He made the decision based on his private and moral principles,” Bordans told the Baltic News Service. He was not immediately available for comments.

On Twitter, Ukraine 4 Freedom, a volunteer project by students of international relations at the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, wrote that he had joined a foreign legion unit for international volunteers.

___

MARIUPOL, Ukraine -- Civilians in the besieged port of Mariupol in southeast Ukraine are anxiously waiting for news of evacuation efforts as they struggle to survive in a city where bodies have been left uncollected on the streets.

Since Saturday, Russian and Ukrainian authorities have committed to setting up evacuation routes but efforts have repeatedly collapsed amid more fighting along the route. Another effort was made Tuesday.

With water supplies cut, people have been collecting water from streams or melting snow. Power cuts mean that many residents have lost internet access and now rely on their car radios for information, picking up news from stations broadcast from areas controlled by Russian or Russian-backed separatist forces.

___

GENEVA — The International Committee for the Red Cross says it’s not involved in any evacuation of civilians from two Ukrainian cities and is emphasizing the strict rules under international law about the use of the red cross emblem in an armed conflict.

Videos have shown buses leaving northern Sumy and heading toward Mariupol in the southeast bearing a red cross on the side. It’s not clear who put them there.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the International Red Cross was “forbidding the use of its emblem on our cars,” without elaborating.

ICRC spokesman Ewan Watson said “we don’t forbid per se” but cited rules about use of protective emblems like the red cross. “In armed conflict, it may be used by medical staff and facilities, including army medics and vehicles. It may also be used by Red Cross and Red Crescent workers, vehicles, facilities, and the humanitarian relief they bring," he said.

ICRC said it has no staffers in Sumy but has been working with Ukrainian and Russian authorities toward an agreement to help people leave Mariupol.

___

LONDON — Trading in nickel, much of it produced in Russia, was suspended Tuesday on the London Metal Exchange after prices doubled to an unprecedented $100,000 per metric ton.

Nickel is used mostly to produce stainless steel and some alloys, but increasingly it is used in batteries, particularly electric vehicle batteries.

Russia, facing severe economic sanctions after invading Ukraine, is the world’s third biggest nickel producer. The Russian mining company Nornickel is a major supplier of the high-grade nickel that is used in electric vehicles.

Nickel prices had quadrupled in a week over supply issues and the spike Tuesday forced the LME to shut down electronic and floor trading.

Trading in nickel will not resume Tuesday and the halt could last longer than that “given the geopolitical situation which underlies recent price moves,” the LME said Tuesday.

___

VATICAN CITY — The Vatican says it is willing to “do everything to put itself at the service" for peace in Ukraine.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said that Cardinal Pietro Parolin, who is Pope Francis’ secretary of state, spoke by phone with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Tuesday. In the call, Parolin “relayed the deep worry of Pope Francis for the war underway in Ukraine and reaffirmed what the pope said last Sunday,” Bruni said.

Francis had announced he was sending two cardinals to Ukraine this week to express Christian concern for the suffering and stress the pope’s oft-cited words that “war is madness.” Parolin also told Lavrov that the Holy See is willing to do everything to help bring about peace.

GENEVA -- The U.N. human rights office says it has confirmed 474 civilian deaths in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Feb. 24.

The office said Tuesday that the number of confirmed civilian injuries now stands at 861.

The U.N. office uses strict methodology and only reports casualties it has been able to verify.

It acknowledges that the real figures are much higher, in part because intense fighting has delayed its receipt of information and many reports still have to be corroborated.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The U.K. delegation to the global chemical weapons watchdog says in a tweet that it and a group of supporters walked out of a meeting Tuesday in response to what the delegation called “unacceptable Russian falsehoods on Ukraine.”

It was not immediately clear what the Russian representative said at the behind-closed-doors meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons’ executive council to prompt the walkout.

The British delegation tweeted a photo of more than 50 people standing with two Ukrainian flags on the steps outside the OPCW’s headquarters in The Hague.

France’s ambassador, Luis Vassy, says in a tweet that the walkout by European Union nations and their supporters came as Russia’s representative “was denying basic facts about Ukraine” and other issues tackled by the OPCW.

In a written statement posted on the OPCW’s website, U.K. ambassador Joanna Roper urged the organization to be vigilant. “The UK remains concerned that Russia may use the pretext of chemical weapons to try to justify its illegal actions in Ukraine and we know only too well that Russia is also prepared to use chemical weapons against others,” she said.

___

KYIV, UKRAINE — Tuesday is International Women’s Day, an important official holiday in Russia and Ukraine dating from the Soviet era. Women are normally feted with flowers and chocolates and speeches, but this year the holiday was overshadowed in Ukraine by war, and in Russia by economic chaos.

Sugary messages of love and support were shared on social networks as in previous years, but many were tinged with sorrow or pleas for peace.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy opened his morning video address Tuesday saying: “Ukrainians, we usually celebrate this holiday, the holiday of spring. We congratulate our women, our daughters, wives, mothers. Usually. But not today."

“Today I cannot say the traditional words. I just can’t congratulate you. I can’t, when there are so many deaths. When there is so much grief, when there is so much suffering. When the war continues,” he said.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says Russia’s armed forces may be deliberately targeting civilians as they try to flee the military assault on Ukraine.

Stoltenberg said Tuesday “there are very creditable reports of civilians coming under fire as they try to evacuate. Targeting civilians is a war crime, and it’s totally unacceptable.”

He told reporters in Latvia that the humanitarian impact of the almost two-week long war “is devastating.”

“We need real humanitarian corridors that are fully respected,” he said.

Asked what NATO can do to help, Stoltenberg said: “We have a responsibility to ensure the conflict does not spread beyond Ukraine.” NATO is boosting its defenses to ensure that members near Russia and Ukraine are not next on Moscow’s target list.

___

KYIV, UKRAINE — Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov has released new estimates of casualties and damage from the Russian war, saying Russian military actions have killed 38 children and wounded more than 70.

Overall at least 400 civilian deaths have been recorded and 800 wounded, though “these data are definitely incomplete,” he said in a video address.

It was not immediately possible to verify the figures.

He said Russian strikes have destroyed more than 200 Ukrainian schools, 34 hospitals and 1,500 residential buildings.

He estimated some 10,000 foreign students, notably from India, China and the Persian Gulf are trapped by the fighting, and described attacks on British and Swiss journalists.

He claimed that Ukrainian forces have killed more than 11,000 Russian troops.

“Russian invaders fire on humanitarian corridors through which civilians are trying to escape,” he said, without saying where.

Russian officials did not comment Tuesday and have only acknowledged several hundred deaths among Russian forces.

___

BERLIN -- The German federal prosecutor’s office is looking into possible war crimes committed by Russian forces in Ukraine.

The prosecutor’s office said Tuesday it has launched a so-called “structural investigation" — a preliminary investigation against persons unknown which entails looking for evidence leading to possible suspects who could be prosecuted.

It’s unclear whether or when a prosecution of any suspect would actually be launched and what the chances are of any defendant eventually being brought to court in Germany.

Germany applies the principle of universal jurisdiction for serious crimes. In a groundbreaking verdict in January, a German court convicted a former Syrian secret police officer of crimes against humanity for overseeing the abuse of detainees at a jail.

___

BEIJING — China says President Xi Jinping has criticized sanctions imposed on Russia over its war against Ukraine as “harmful to all sides,” in a video summit with French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.

China has largely backed Russia in blaming the U.S. and its allies for provoking the conflict and has abstained in votes at the United Nations over whether to condemn Moscow for its actions.

In its readout of Tuesday’s conversation, Chinese state broadcaster CCTV said Xi expressed “anxiety and deep pain” over the fighting, and urged the sides to pursue peace talks in which he said China was willing to play a role.

Xi gave no indication on what sort of resolution China was looking for and the only details he gave concerned the impact of sanctions.

“We want to strive together to reduce the negative effects of the crisis,” Xi was quoted as saying. “Regarding the impact of sanctions on global finance, energy resources, transport and supply chain stability, in terms of a world economy already burdened by the pandemic, it is harmful to all sides.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s defense minister says his staff will help process applications from Ukrainians fleeing war, after criticism of the sluggish U.K. effort to take in refugees.

Britain says it expects to take in as many as 200,000 displaced Ukrainians, and has set no upper limit on the number it will accept. But as of Monday night, the government said only 300 visas had been issued.

French officials have accused Britain of turning Ukrainians away at the English Channel port of Calais, telling them to apply for visas at British embassies in Paris or Brussels.

Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said Tuesday that “we can do more, we will do more” to speed up people’s journeys to the U.K.

___

MOSCOW — Russia says it has summoned the Irish ambassador to Moscow a day after a truck was driven through the gates of the Russian embassy in Ireland during a demonstration against the war in Ukraine.

The Russian Foreign Ministry said Tuesday it told Irish ambassador Brian McElduff that Russia demanded an apology from the Irish authorities and for Ireland to pay compensation.

Russia likened the incident to “a tactic widely used by terrorists” and said Irish law enforcement had not acted to stop it. The Irish Times newspaper reported Monday that the driver of the truck was arrested.

___

KYIV, UKRAINE — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has called for the expansion of humanitarian corridors for Ukrainian civilians fleeing war, and more support from the Red Cross.

In a video address Tuesday from an undisclosed location, he said a child died of dehydration in the blockaded southern seaport of Mariupol, in a sign of how desperate the city’s population has become.

He pleaded again with Western countries to provide air support.

He said evacuation buses have been sent to Mariupol, but said there was no firm agreement on the route, so “Russian troops can simply shoot on this transport on the way.”

Zelenskiy accused the International Red Cross of “forbidding the use of its emblem on our cars,” but did not give details. Videos of buses heading out of Sumy and toward Mariupol have had signs with a red cross on the side but it’s not clear who pasted them there.

___

LONDON — Estee Lauder is the latest foreign company to halt its operations in Russia after the invasion of Ukraine.

The New York-based cosmetics giant said in a statement late Monday that it has decided to suspend all its commercial activity in Russia, “including every store we own and operate.” It’s not clear how many retail outlets it has in Russia.

Estee Lauder also said it’s suspending shipments to its Russian retailers and will provide “compensation and support” to its Russian employees. The company owns more than two dozen brands including Clinique, Bobbi Brown and MAC Cosmetics.

___

LONDON — Energy giant Shell says it will stop buying Russian oil and natural gas as well as shut down its service stations and other operations in the country amid international pressure for companies to sever ties over the invasion of Ukraine.

Shell says in a statement Tuesday that it would withdraw from all Russian hydrocarbons, including crude oil, petroleum products, natural gas and liquefied natural gas, “in a phased manner.”

The decision comes just days after Ukraine’s foreign minister criticized Shell for continuing to buy Russian oil.

___

LONDON — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is set to address Britain’s Parliament -- the first time a foreign leader has been allowed to speak in the House of Commons.

Screens and simultaneous translation headsets have been set up in the House of Commons so lawmakers can hear from Zelenskyy at 5 p.m. (1700GMT) on Tuesday.

World leaders have previously addressed British lawmakers elsewhere in Parliament, but not in the House of Commons itself.

Zelenskyy has previously thanked Britain for its support, which includes humanitarian aid and defensive weapons.

GENEVA -- The U.N.'s top human rights official is warning that a new Russian law allowing harsh punishment for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about the armed forces adds to concern about repressive legislation in Russia.

High Commission for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet told the U.N. Human Rights Council that “space for discussion or criticism of public policies – including (Russia’s) military action against Ukraine – is increasingly and profoundly restricted.”

Bachelet said some 12,700 people have been “arbitrarily arrested” for holding peaceful anti-war protests and noted that media are required to use only official information and terms.

She said she’s concerned about repressive and vaguely defined legislation, and added that “further legislation criminalising circumstances of ‘discrediting’ the armed forces continues down this concerning path.”

The new measure, signed into law by President Vladimir Putin on Friday, allows for prison sentences of up to 15 years. It has prompted some foreign media to suspend operations within Russia.

___

LONDON — Britain’s defense secretary says the invasion of Ukraine will be Vladimir Putin’s downfall as the Russian leader struggles to defeat and occupy a country that has put up unexpectedly staunch resistance to his armies.

Ben Wallace said Russian forces are already “exhausted” after facing logistical problems and suffering thousands of losses in the first 13 days of fighting. He added it's “an impossible task” to occupy a country of 44 million people that is bigger than France and Germany combined.

“This will be Putin’s end ... and so it should be,” Wallace told the BBC.

Putin is already “a spent force” in the wider world because the international community has decided the invasion of Ukraine and the humanitarian catastrophe it has unleashed are unacceptable, Wallace said. The international sanctions imposed on Russia “are reducing his economy to zero,” and Putin is responsible for that, Wallace said.

___

GENEVA — The number of refugees fleeing Ukraine reached 2 million on Tuesday, according to the United Nations, the fastest exodus Europe has seen since World War II.

“Today the outflow of refugees from Ukraine reaches two million people. Two million,” Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, wrote on Twitter.

The update came as a new effort to evacuate civilians along safe corridors finally got underway Tuesday. The route out of the eastern city of Sumy was one of five promised by the Russians to offer civilians a way to escape the Russian onslaught.

Michelle Bachelet, the U.N. high commissioner for human rights, is pressing for all civilians trapped by fighting in Ukraine to be allowed to leave safely. She said Tuesday she is “deeply concerned about civilians trapped in active hostilities in numerous areas.”

Bachelet also told the U.N. Human Rights Council that her office has received reports of pro-Ukrainian activists being arbitrarily detained in areas of eastern Ukraine that have recently come “under the control of armed groups.” She said there have been reports of beatings of people considered pro-Russian in government-controlled areas.

TOKYO — Japan says it has suspended the assets of 32 more Russian and Belarusian individuals as part of international sanctions against Russia.

The additional sanctions announced Tuesday target 20 Russians including head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov, deputy chiefs of staff and a press secretary for President Vladamir Putin’s govenment, and deputy chairmen of the state parliament. The list also includes business executives with close ties to Putin and his administration such as Volga Group, Transneft, the Private Military Company Wagner and USM Holdings, according to a statement jointly issued by the foreign, finance and trade ministries.

The sanction targets also included 12 Belarusian officials and business executives, including Belarus’ National Olympic Committee President Viktor Lukashenko, as well as 12 organizations in Russia and Belarus.

Officials said Japan is also banning exports of oil refinery equipment to Russia and general purpose goods to Belarus that could be used to strengthen the country’s military capability.

___

WARSAW, Poland -- Poland's prime minister is calling for even tougher sanctions against Russia in order to dismantle President Vladimir Putin’s war machine.

Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki made his comments as he departed Warsaw for visits to NATO countries Britain and Norway.

He told reporters that strengthening NATO’s eastern flank and pushing for more sanctions would be the main topics of discussion. In particular, Morawiecki wants to urge other European countries to replace Russian crude oil and gas with deliveries from other countries.

“In order to hit Russia effectively, our blow must be consistent and long-term if military action continues,” Morawiecki said.

Poland has been building a gas pipeline, Baltic Pipe, meant to import gas from Norway.

He called Baltic Pipe “a symbol of Poland’s sovereignty, of Poland’s independence from Russia, from gas blackmail ... everything which has made it possible for Putin to build a war machine.”

___

TALLINN, ESTONIA — U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is wrapping up a short tour of the three Baltic states aimed at reassuring the former Soviet republics that NATO will guarantee their security as Russia’s war with Ukraine rolls on unabated.

Blinken was meeting with senior Estonian officials in Tallinn on Tuesday, a day after hearing appeals from both Lithuania and Latvia for more support and greater U.S. and NATO troop presence to deter a feared Russian intervention.

“We will defend every inch of NATO territory if it comes under attack,” Blinken said Monday in Riga. “No one should doubt our readiness. No one should doubt our resolve.”

Leaders in all three Baltic states have expressed grave concerns about Russian President Vladimir Putin’s intentions for former Soviet bloc countries that are now allied or otherwise linked to the West.

Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics said the Russian invasion of Ukraine had shown the Baltic countries in particular the need to bolster air and coastal defenses. He added Latvia would like its security cooperation with NATO to be “more efficient.”

Lithuanian President Gitanes Nauseda told Blinken in Vilnius that a policy of deterrence was no longer enough and that “forward defense” was now needed. He predicted that “Putin will not stop in Ukraine if he will not be stopped."

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Safe corridors intended to let civilians escape the Russian onslaught in Ukraine could open Tuesday, officials from both sides said, though previous efforts to establish evacuation routes crumbled amid renewed attacks and it was not clear how large the operation would be if it happened.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Tuesday that both sides agreed to a cease-fire from 9 a.m.-9 p.m. Ukraine time (0700-1900 GMT) for the evacuation of civilians from the eastern city of Sumy.

The first convoy with evacuated civilians in buses or private cars is to leave at 10 a.m. (0800 GMT), on a single route toward the Ukrainian city of Poltava. She said Russia’s Defense Ministry agreed to this in a letter to the International Red Cross.

Those being evacuated from Sumy include foreign students from India and China, she said. The corridor will also be used to bring humanitarian aid into Sumy, she said.

She reiterated that Russian proposals to evacuate civilians to Russia and Belarus were unacceptable. She didn’t elaborate on the possibility of evacuating Ukrainians toward western Ukraine.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — The head of the Norwegian Refugee Council said that refugees fleeing in Ukraine was “the fastest-growing displacement crisis I have witnessed in my 35 years as a humanitarian worker.”

Jan Egeland, secretary general of the humanitarian group, said that “every second the war forces a person to flee across Ukraine’s borders, and countless are displaced within the country.”

The Oslo-based agency, which has been in Ukraine since 2014, said it was launching an aid plan to support 800,000 people inside Ukraine and neighboring countries.

NRC’s humanitarian response plan calls for $82 million and appealed to donors “to dig deep into their pockets to find new funding” and added do “not take resources from other crises.”

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — The head of the World Health Organization’s Europe office says it has confirmed 16 attacks that have affected the provision of health care in Ukraine in the fighting since Russia’s invasion in the country began nearly two weeks ago.

Dr. Hans Kluge also told reporters Tuesday that Ukrainian health authorities have “remarkably” maintained COVID-19 surveillance and response since the invasion began on Feb. 24, though they reported 731 deaths related to the pandemic over the last week.

Kluge warned that “sadly, this number will increase as oxygen shortages continue” — with older people disproportionately affected. Treatment with oxygen is an important part of the response for people whose respiratory systems have been harmed by coronavirus infection.

The WHO Europe chief also said broken supply lines are harming the ability to treat conditions like diabetes, hypertension, and diabetes. Catherine Smallwood, senior emergency officer for WHO Europe, said the attacks on health care in Ukraine have led to at least 9 deaths and 16 injuries.

___

LONDON — Britain’s defense secretary said Tuesday that there are reports Ukrainian special forces destroyed over 20 Russian helicopters on the ground overnight as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues to face logistical problems and fierce resistance.

Russia’s advance toward the capital, Kyiv, continues to face pressure from Ukrainian forces around the nearby towns of Hostomel, Bucha, Vorzel and Irpin, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in an intelligence update released late Monday. In addition, a lengthy Russian column remains stuck on the road north of Kyiv.

Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian forces are becoming more and more desperate in the face of such military and supply holdups, leading to “indiscriminate shelling” of civilians.

“We’ve also recognized that probably the biggest single casualties, so far in the war, are Russian military soldiers who have been let down by appalling leaders, appalling leadership and appalling plans. And now you see them, literally, at large scales dying.”

___

WASHINGTON — The World Bank says it has approved more than $700 in emergency support for Ukraine.

Dubbed FREE Ukraine, it includes nearly $500 million in loans and guarantees and $134 million in grants, with Japan promising another $100 million in financing. The aid is meant to help the Ukrainian government pay wages of hospital workers, pensions and other social programs. Bundling the aid into a package is intended to streamline and speed the provision of the funding, the World Bank said in a statement.

“The World Bank Group stands with the people of Ukraine and the region,” World Bank President David Malpass said. “This is the first of many steps we are taking to help address the far-reaching human and economic impacts of this crisis.”

The World Bank also said it is preparing a $3 billion package of support for Ukraine and the region to help it cope with theflood of displaced people fleeingthe fighting.

___

TOKYO — U.S. Ambassador to Japan Rahm Emanuel praised Japan’s latest sanctions on Russia’s oil refining industry and on Belarus Tuesday.

Japan has frozen the assets of Russian and Belarusian officials and banned the new issue and distribution of Russian government bonds, acting in unity with the U.S. and other Group of Seven industrialized nations. Japan is also banning exports of oil-refining equipment to Russia.

“We applaud the Kishida government’s leadership today to target Russia’s oil refining sector with strict export controls,” Emanuel said in a statement.

The moves help restrict Russia’s access to revenue that supports Vladimir Putin and his war on Ukraine, he said.

“These new actions, implemented in close unity with the United States and other partners, demonstrate Japan’s resolute commitment to stand together with the Ukrainian people and against Putin’s vicious regime,” said Emanuel.

___

ISLAMABAD — Pakistan sent an aircraft to Poland on Tuesday to evacuate more than 300 Pakistanis who escaped fighting in Ukraine.

Pakistan International Airlines says most of them are students.

Pakistan has refused to condemn Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, even as it has denounced war as a solution to differences and called for negotiations and a cease-fire. Prime Minister Imran Khan met with President Vladimir Putin at the Kremlin just hours after the Russian leader sent tanks into Ukraine on Feb. 24.

Pakistan abstained from last week’s U.N. General Assembly vote condemning Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

TOKYO — Japanese automaker Nissan is planning to halt production at its plant in Russia because of “logistical challenges.”

Nissan Motor Co. did not provide a specific date but said Tuesday production will stop “soon.” Its plant in St. Petersburg produced 45,000 vehicles last year, including the X-Trail sport utility vehicle.

The Yokohama-based manufacturer said the safety of its employees is its top priority.

Nissan earlier stopped exports to Russia.

__

LVIV, Ukraine -- Russian aircraft bombed cities in eastern and central Ukraine overnight, Ukrainian officials said. Shelling pounded suburbs of the capital, Kyiv.

In Sumy and Okhtyrka, to the east of Kyiv near the Russian border, bombs fell on residential buildings and destroyed a power plant, regional leader Dmytro Zhivitsky said. He said there were dead and wounded but gave no figures.

Bombs also hit oil depots in Zhytomyr and the neighboring town of Cherniakhiv, located west of Kyiv.

In Bucha, a Kyiv suburb, the mayor reported heavy artillery fire.

“We can’t even gather up the bodies because the shelling from heavy weapons doesn’t stop day or night,” Mayor Anatol Fedoruk said. “Dogs are pulling apart the bodies on the city streets. It’s a nightmare.”

The Ukrainian government is demanding the opening of humanitarian corridors to allow people to safely leave Sumy, Zhytomyr, Kharkiv, Mariupol and suburbs of Kyiv, including Bucha.

__

LVIV, Ukraine -- The mayor of Lviv said the city in far western Ukraine is struggling to feed and house the tens of thousands of people who have fled here from war-torn regions of the country.

“We really need support,” Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said.

More than 200,000 Ukrainians displaced from their homes are now in Lviv, filling up sport halls, schools, hospitals and church buildings. The historical city once popular with tourists had a population of 700,000 before the war.

The mayor said the city needs big tents equipped with kitchens so food can be prepared.

Hundreds of thousands more people could arrive if humanitarian corridors are opened up from cities now under siege from Russian troops.

The embassies of the U.S. and EU countries also moved to Lviv from Kyiv before the invasion.

Lviv is the main transit point for those fleeing just across the border to Poland. Many of the 1.7 million Ukrainians now abroad passed through the city. The United Nations has called the situation the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.

__

LVIV, Russia — A Russian general was killed in the fighting around Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city, which Russian forces have been trying to seize since the invasion began, the Ukrainian military intelligence agency said.

It identified him as Maj. Gen. Vitaly Gerasimov, 45, and said he had fought with Russian forces in Syria and Chechnya and had taken part in the seizure of Crimea in 2014.

It was not possible to confirm the death independently. Russia has not commented.

Another Russian general was killed earlier in the fighting. A local officers’ organization in Russia confirmed the death in Ukraine of Maj. Gen. Andrei Sukhovetsky, the commanding general of the Russian 7th Airborne Division.

Sukhovetsky also took part in Russia’s military campaign in Syria.

__

CANBERRA, Australia — The Australian government says it is placing sanctions on Moscow’s “propagandists and purveyors of disinformation” who legitimatize Russia’s invasion as the “de-Nazification” of Ukraine.

Foreign Minister Marise Payne said in a statement on Tuesday her government was sanctioning 10 “people of strategic interest to Russia” for their role in encouraging hostility toward Ukraine.

“This includes driving and disseminating false narratives about the ‘de-Nazification’ of Ukraine, making erroneous allegations of genocide against ethnic Russians in eastern Ukraine, and promoting the recognition of the so-called Donetsk People’s Republic and Luhansk People’s Republic as independent,” Payne said, referring to separatist regions of Ukraine.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine had been accompanied by a widespread disinformation campaign, both within Russia and internationally, she said.

“Tragically for Russia, President (Vladimir) Putin has shut down independent voices and locked everyday Russians into a world characterized by lies and disinformation,” Payne said.

____

UNITED NATIONS -- Ukraine’s U.N. ambassador says 12 days of an all-out invasion by Russia has brought Ukraine to “the brink of humanitarian catastrophe of potentially global nature.”

Sergiy Kyslytsya, speaking Monday at a U.N. Security Council meeting on the crisis, accused Russia of blocking numerous attempts by Ukrainian authorities to evacuate civilians through humanitarian corridors.

He said Russians shelled depots with evacuation buses near Mariupol and blew up the railway near Irpin in the Kyiv region to prevent evacuation by train. He said Russia bombed and launched missiles at those cities and others like Kharkiv on Monday.

Kyslytsya said Russia must stop violating cease-fire arrangements and allow safe passage through humanitarian corridors, end disinformation, and implement the U.N. General Assembly’s resolution calling for an immediate stop to fighting.

Ukraine as a major wheat producer has been “one of the guarantors of global food security” but this has been challenged by the war and “the implications at the global level will be catastrophic,” he said.

Kyslytsya said Russian shelling had destroyed schools and hospitals and killed and wounded doctors. He said and the country was running low on critical medical supplies. He urged U.N. humanitarian agencies to respond quickly.

____

LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba says when he meets with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Turkey on Thursday he will propose direct talks between the Ukrainian and Russian presidents.

“We want talks between the president of Ukraine and Vladimir Putin since he is the one who makes the final decisions,” Kuleba said early Tuesday on Ukrainian television.

President Volodymyr Zelenskyy often proposed direct talks with Putin in the runup to the war and said he called the Kremlin on the eve of the Russian invasion but got no reply. Putin has agreed to speak only with Western leaders.

Kuleba spoke after a conversation late Monday with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken.

“Grateful to the U.S. for standing by Ukraine,” Kuleba said on Twitter. “We are coordinating intensively on crucial further steps to increase pressure on Russia.”

____

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Rhode Island U.S. Rep. David Cicilline said Monday it was “haunting” to see Ukrainians fleeing from their country in fear when he visited the border of Ukraine and Poland.

Cicilline told The Associated Press Monday night, about an hour after returning to the U.S., that he saw “young children crying and mothers just literally running from their country because they were attacked,” and lines of people waiting for help in the freezing cold with no heavy coats.

“It’s just horrible, the suffering that is being caused because of this brutality by (Russian President) Vladimir Putin,” he said. “It’s hard to describe. It’s hard to get it out of your head. It’s some of the worst stuff I’ve seen.”

Cicilline was part of a bipartisan delegation to the border led by U.S. Rep. Gregory Meeks, chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Michael McCaul, the ranking Republican on the committee. They got there Saturday morning.

____

UNITED NATIONS — Russia’s U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia says Russia will carry out a cease-fire on Tuesday morning at 10 a.m. Moscow time and open humanitarian corridors to evacuate citizens from Kiev, Chernigov, Sumy and Mariupol.

He took the floor at the end of a U.N. Security Council meeting on the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine on Monday to make the announcement.

“This proposal doesn’t have any demands about the citizens being sent necessarily to Russia, into Russian territory,” he said.

“There’s also evacuation offered towards Ukrainian cities to the west of Kyiv, and ultimately it will be the choice of the people themselves where they want to be evacuated to,” Nebenzia said.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said instead of an agreement on humanitarian corridors, what Ukraine got on Monday was “Russian tanks, Russian Grad rockets, Russian mines.”

“They even mined the roads that were the agreed routes for taking food and medicine to the people, to the children, of Mariupol,” Zelenskyy said in what has become a daily video address close to midnight. On Monday night he spoke from behind the ornate desk in his official office, visual proof that he remains in Kyiv.

During talks on Monday, the Russians proposed evacuation routes leading to Russia and its ally Belarus, rather than to areas of western Ukraine that remain peaceful.

“It’s just cynicism,” Zelenskyy said. By opening a small corridor to Russia, he said, Moscow is looking only for a propaganda victory.

He said that on the 12th day of the war, the Ukrainian army is counter attacking and inflicting extremely painful losses on the enemy. “Battles are underway in the center, in the north and in the south of country – Mariupol and Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Sumy, Odesa and Kyiv, Mykolaiv and Zhytomyr.”

____

UNITED NATIONS — The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations is calling on Russia to honor Ukraine’s proposals “for time-bound humanitarian safe passage in specific, agreed upon locations” and unequivocally commit to immediate humanitarian access in the country.

At a U.N. Security Council meeting on the escalating humanitarian crisis in the country, Linda Thomas-Greenfield also called for the establishment of a system on the ground to facilitate the safe movement of aid convoys and flights so food, medicine and other supplies can get into Ukraine to reach those most in need.

The U.S. envoy urged countries that have pledged over $1.5 billion in humanitarian support for Ukraine to quickly turn the pledges into funds, saying “as long as Russia pursues its relentless and brutal campaign, the need for assistance will only increase.”

Thomas-Greenfield said Russian President Vladimir Putin “has a plan to brutalize Ukraine” and the last two weeks have shown that “the Ukrainian people are not going to give up.”

Thomas-Greenfield said the United States will continue to stand with the Ukrainian people, “but president Putin is clearly willing to sacrifice the lives of thousands of Russian soldiers to achieve his personal ambition.”

____

WASHINGTON — Top officials in the U.S. Congress reached agreement Monday on legislation that would ban Russian oil imports to the U.S. and end Russia’s permanent normal trade relations status in response to the intensifying war in Ukraine.

That’s according to a Senate aide granted anonymity to discuss the private deliberations in Congress.

Voting could come swiftly but no schedule has been set.

The White House has been reluctant to ban Russian oil imports as gas prices at the pump spike for Americans, but has not ruled out the option.

Ending the normal trade relations status could result in steep tariffs on other Russian imports.

— AP congressional correspondent Lisa Mascaro contributed to this report.

____

UNITED NATIONS — Calling what’s happening to the 7.5 million children of Ukraine “a moral outrage,” the head of the U.N. children’s agency urged the U.N. Security Council to remind all parties of their legal obligation to protect youngsters and spare them from attack.

UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell told a council meeting Monday that at least 27 children have been killed and 42 injured since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, according to the U.N. human rights office, and “countless more have been severely traumatized.”

With the escalation of the conflict, she said, homes, schools, orphanages and hospitals have come under attack as well as water and sanitation facilities, which provide key civilian needs. She also expressed deep concern at the safety and well-being of nearly 100,000 children, half of them with disabilities, who live in Ukrainian institutions and boarding schools.

She called on the parties to refrain from fighting near these facilities and to avoid the use of explosive weapons in populated areas.

Russell said children must be protected from the brutality of war, saying the image of a mother, her two children and a friend trying to flee to safety lying dead on a street after being hit by a mortar “must shock the conscience of the world.”

For children fleeing Ukraine, she said, UNICEF has started operating “Blue Dot” safe places at border crossings where youngsters are first registered and which provide “a one-stop safe space for children and their families.”

____

UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations is unable to meet the needs of millions of civilians caught in conflict in Ukraine today and is urging safe passage for people to go “in the direction they choose” and for humanitarian supplies to get to areas of hostilities, according to the U.N. humanitarian chief.

Undersecretary-General Martin Griffiths told a U.N. Security Council meeting Monday that his office has sent a team to Moscow to coordinate with the Russian military to try to scale-up the delivery of humanitarian aid to the level needed. He said this followed a phone call Friday between U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and Russia’s Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu.

The first U.N.-Russia meeting has been held, he said, welcoming cooperation by both sides and expressing hope of “further progress in the hours ahead.”

Griffiths said the U.N. and its partners have already provided food to hundreds of thousands of people and the World Food Program “is setting up supply chain operations to deliver immediate food and cash assistance to 3-5 million people inside Ukraine,” and the Ukrainian Red Cross has distributed hygiene and food kits, warm clothing and medicine to thousands of people.

The U.N. humanitarian chief also expressed deep worry at the consequences of “this unnecessary conflict” on “vulnerable people living half a world away” affected by spiking food prices and uncertain supplies and record-level prices. “People in the Sahel, Yemen, the Horn of Africa, Afghanistan, Madagascar, and beyond already face profound food inseucirty,” Griffiths said, and high gas prices means “life becomes harder still in places like Lebanon.”

____

BERLIN — The U.N. nuclear watchdog says Ukraine has informed it that a new research facility producing radioisotopes for medical and industrial uses has been damaged by shelling in Kharkiv.

The International Atomic Energy Agency said the Ukrainian regulator told it that Sunday’s incident didn’t cause any increase in radiation levels at the site. It said the nuclear material at the facility is “always subcritical” and there is a very low stock of it, so the IAEA’s assessment is that the reported damage would have no “radiological consequence.”

However, it adds to a string of concerns the Vienna-based IAEA has over nuclear facilities and material in Ukraine.

It reported “another worrying development” Monday at the Zaporizhzhia power plant, Ukraine’s biggest, which was seized last week by Russian forces. The IAEA said the Ukrainian regulator has informed it that it’s not currently possible to deliver spare parts or medicine to the plant.

The IAEA reiterated that “having operating staff subject to the authority of the Russian military commander contravenes an indispensable pillar of nuclear safety.”

The Ukrainian regulator said eight of the country’s 15 reactors were operating, including two at Zaporizhzhia.

____

NEW YORK — Stoli Group is renaming its Stolichnaya vodka brand as part of a broader effort to distance itself from Russia. In a news release, Luxembourg-based Stoli Group said the vodka will now be sold and marketed as Stoli. Russian billionaire Yuri Shefler, a critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, founded Stoli Group in 1997 but was exiled from Russia four years later and moved production to Latvia. “More than anything, I wish for Stoli to represent peace in Europe and solidarity with Ukraine,” Shefler said in a statement. Stoli Group said a state-owned company in Russia continues to make a vodka called Stolichnaya which is sold in a limited number of markets. But Stoli Group owns the trademark rights to the Stolichnaya name in 150 countries, including the U.S. Stolichnaya means “from the capital city” in Russian.

____

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday that he does not expect a negotiated end to the war in Ukraine for weeks.

He said that he has told the Russian leader that a cease-fire must come before any real dialogue, but that President Vladimir Putin has refused, making their regular talks “difficult.”

“I don’t think that in the days and weeks to come there will be a true negotiated solution,” Macron said at a forum in Poissy, a southwest suburb of Paris, while campaigning for the first time to renew his mandate in April presidential elections.

He said that Putin is making a “historic fault” with his war pitted against Ukrainians, “brothers.” Macron stressed the need to respect the people of all countries ... “and ensure that no nation, no people be humiliated.”

Macron said that Russia, too, must be respected as a country and people because “There is no durable peace if Russia is not (part of) a ... grand architecture of peace on our continent. Because History and geography are stubborn.”

____

ROME — Italy is looking to house those fleeing war in Ukraine in residences confiscated from organized crime syndicates.

Interior Minister Luciana Lamorgese on Monday said that the national agency which keeps track of hundreds of seized and confiscated properties over the years are quickly checking to determine those suitable for refugees.

Some 14,000 refugees have arrived in Italy from Ukraine. Many of them have relatives or friends living in Italy, and it isn’t immediately clear how many have no one to host them.

Ministry officials will be pinpointing real estate that has been confiscated, but not yet assigned for use by municipalities or charities. After judicial authorities determine that property was bought with illicit revenues from organized crime like drug trafficking or extortion, it is seized and eventually made available for use by charities or other non-profit groups.

Lamorgese said using the properties to house refugees, even on a temporary basis, can give “concrete responses to those fleeing from war and above all to the most fragile persons, such as women and children.”

____

TIRANA, Albania — Albania on Monday strongly denounced the shelling of its consulate in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv and called on Russia to stop aggression against Ukraine.

The Albanian Foreign Ministry tweeted photos of the building in Kharkiv where its consulate is seen destroyed after being shelled.

“Albania strongly condemns the #Russian aggression which led to the destruction of the Honorary Consulate of Albania in Kharkiv,” it tweeted, adding that, “Perpetrators must be held accountable! #StopRussianAggression #StandWithUkraine️.”

Albania has joined the European Union in the hard-hitting sanctions against Russian top officials and institutions.

Last week Albania and the United States initiated a resolution at the United Nations Security Council denouncing the Russian invasion.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — Both Russia and Ukraine say they've made a little progress during a third round of talks and Russia’s top negotiator says the corridors are expected to start functioning Tuesday.

Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said without elaboration Monday that “there were some small positive shifts regarding logistics of humanitarian corridors” to allow civilians to flee some besieged Ukrainian cities. He said that consultations will continue on ways to negotiate an end to hostilities.

Russia’s top negotiator Vladimir Medinsky, said he expects that humanitarian corridors in Ukraine will finally start functioning Tuesday. He said no progress has been made on a political settlement, but voiced hope that the next round could be more productive.

“Our expectations from the talks have failed, but we hope that we would be able to make a more significant step forward next time,” Medinsky said. “The talks will continue.”

Efforts to set up safe passage for civilians over the weekend fell apart amid continued shelling. But the Russian Defense Ministry announced a new push Monday, saying civilians would be allowed to leave the capital of Kyiv, Mariupol and the cities of Kharkiv and Sumy.

____

MADRID — U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman says that getting military materiel for Ukrainians to fight a Russian invasion is set to become more difficult for the U.S. and its allies.

“I think that the international community has been tremendously responsive and have found ways to get the materiel in. That may become harder in the coming days, and we’ll have to find other ways to manage this,” Sherman said Monday during a visit to the Spanish capital for meetings with officials.

The Biden administration is considering how to fulfill Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s request for warplanes, the official said, considering that Ukrainians would only be able to operate soviet-era warplanes provided by Poland.

“People are trying to see whether this is possible and doable,” she said, adding that the warplanes should not be regarded by Moscow as direct involvement in the conflict: “We would expect that this delivery would be seen as all the deliveries have been seen as a right for Ukraine to defend itself.”

Sherman met in Madrid with Foreign Minister José Manuel Albares and other officials. She arrived from Turkey and was on her way to Morocco, Algeria and Egypt for a week of intense diplomatic contacts amid the war in Ukraine.

____

PARIS — French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian criticized Russia’s offer of humanitarian corridors for Ukrainian civilians as a “trap” that could possibly lead to more bombing in Ukraine.

Le Drian referred to Russia’s tactic of bombing and then offering humanitarian corridors in the past, citing Aleppo in Syria and Grozny, in Chechnya. He said in such cases Russia’s proposal of establishing humanitarian corridors actually led to more bombings after negotiations failed.

“We must not fall into traps,” Le Drian said Monday in France’s southern city of Montpellier after a meeting of European ministers.

“I’m even wondering if in Russian military schools there are classes to explain: ‘bombing, corridor, negotiations, breach (of negotiations), we start it all again’. It’s quite tragic but unfortunately it sends shivers down your spine,” he said.

____

TIRANA, Albania — Albania’s capital Tirana on Monday named a street “Free Ukraine” to express solidarity with Ukraine’s resistance to the Russian invasion.

Tirana’s city hall council, or parliament, voted unanimously to rename a downtown street in the capital where the Ukrainian, Russian, Serbian and Kosovar embassies are located.

“The two conflicts: Serbia against Kosovo and Russian Against Ukraine are two marking points for the generations and memories of a modern Europe,” said Mayor Erion Veliaj.

Albania has joined the European Union in the hard-hitting sanctions against Russian top officials and institutions. Last week, Albania joined the United States in initiating a resolution at the United Nations Security Council denouncing the Russian invasion.

“We have always aligned on the fair and glorious side of the world’s history, like we did once with the Hebrews, yesterday with the Afghans and today with the Ukrainians,” said Veliaj, adding that 1,500 families have offered shelter for the Ukrainian refugees if they come to the country.

Albania was the only country during World War II to have more Jews in the end compared to the start offering them shelter from Nazi persecution. Last year, Albania was the first country to offer shelter to the Afghans fleeing their country after the Taliban regime came to power.

____

NEW YORK -- All four of the so-called Big Four accounting firms are now cutting ties with Russia over its war in Ukraine.

Deloitte on Monday was the last of the four to say it will no longer operate in Russia, joining Ernst & Young, Pricewaterhousecoopers and KPMG in making similar announcements.

Deloitte said it is also cutting its ties to Russia-allied Belarus. The company said it is separating its global network of member firms from the firms based in Russia and Belarus.

Deloitte Global CEO Punit Renjen said in a statement “we know this is the right decision” but it will have an impact on Deloitte’s 3,000 employees in Russia and Belarus who “have no voice in the actions of their government.”

Pricewaterhousecoopers and KPMG announced they were pulling out of Russia on Sunday, and Ernst & Young earlier on Monday.

____

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has defended his government’s treatment of Ukrainians fleeing war, after France accused U.K. authorities of “inhumane” behavior towards the refugees.

Johnson said Britain was being “very, very generous,” but would not have “a system where people can come into the U.K. without any checks or any controls at all.”

Britain says it expects to take in as many as 200,000 displaced Ukrainians. Very few have managed to reach Britain so far. The Home Office said “around 50” visas had been granted by Sunday.

French Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin said Sunday that hundreds of Ukrainian refugees in the English Channel port of Calais had been turned away and told by British authorities that they must obtain visas at U.K. embassies in Paris or Brussels.

Calling that “a bit inhumane,” Darmanin urged Britain to “stop the technocratic nit-picking."

U.K. Home Secretary Priti Patel denied Britain was turning anyone away. The British government confirmed Monday that it did not have a visa center in Calais.

____

BUDAPEST - Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban signed a decree on Monday allowing for NATO troops to station on Hungarian territory in response to the Russian invasion of neighboring Ukraine.

The government decree reaffirmed Orban’s earlier insistence that Hungary would not allow troops or lethal weapons to be delivered across its borders into Ukraine, but allowed for the transit of NATO forces across its territory into other NATO member countries.

Non-lethal aid, such as personal protective equipment, first aid and medical supplies and humanitarian materials, are permitted to cross into Ukraine from Hungary, according to the decree.

____

ROME — Italian Premier Mario Draghi said Russia appears determined to carry on with its war in Ukraine until it can install a government “friendly” to Moscow.

Draghi was asked by reporters in Brussels on Monday if he thought there was still room for diplomacy. “Look, up till now, (diplomacy) hasn’t yielded any fruits. Up till now, the determination of Russia is very clear,’’ Draghi replied.

Russia will proceed until “the country has surrendered, (and it) probably installs a friendly government and defeats the resistance,’’ the Italian leader said. “That’s what the facts demonstrate.”

____

BRUSSELS — European Commission spokesman for foreign affairs Peter Stano said the EU would like to see China play a mediation role and convince Russia to stop its war in Ukraine.

“China has the potential to reach out to Moscow because of their relationship obviously and we would like China to use its influence to press for a cease-fire and to make Russia to stop the brutal unprecedented shelling and killing of civilians in Ukraine.”

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220309ei3800006


Brexit Britain: 'Bitter' Rejoiners unable to admit 'Ukraine crisis has humiliated the EU'
Charles Harrison
918 字
2022 年 3 月 12 日 11:07 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE Ukraine crisis has highlighted the worst of EU bureaucracy and hypocrisy, argues a seasoned journalist.

Denmark’s former PM Helle Thorning-Schmidt stated on Question Time: “You said something that almost made me chuckle before when you said that ‘Putin will think that the UK’s leading the efforts against Russia right now’. Of course, it’s not. The European Union is leading the effort against Russia so I don’t think they’ll see Boris Johnson as a particular leader in this field.”

Related articles

However, the idea that the UK is falling behind the EU in its response to the Ukraine crisis could not be further from the truth, according to the former Sunday Express writer Camilla Tominey.

Ms Tominey does admit some failures on the part of the UK, most notably in its Ukrainian visa scheme, which she says the Home Office has “spectacularly bungled”.

However, she goes on to slam the EU’s response to the Ukraine crisis, while highlighting the stronger parts of the UK’s - in particular, Mr Johnson’s close relationship with Volodymyr Zelensky.

Ms Tominey said: “If you are really so bitter and full of self-loathing that you can’t bring yourself to admit that Britain has lead on Russia – can you not accept that Boris Johnson’s clearly close relationship with President Zelensky is precisely why the likes of Ukraine, Poland and the Baltics now look to our Prime Minister for leadership?”

She adds that a Downing Street insider described a telephone conversation between the two leaders as “very emotional”, which left “some of those listening with tears in their eyes.

The importance of this relationship cannot be overstated, argues Ms Tominey, writing: “As evidenced by the warmth with which Zelensky referenced “Boris” in his historic Commons address, they appear to have forged a better bond than most.

“That counts for a great deal in a horrific situation like this, regardless of what the detractors might have you believe.”

Despite Ms Thorning-Schmidt’s insistence that the EU is leading the effort against Russia, the bloc has been widely criticised for elements of its response to the Ukraine crisis.

For instance, Ms Tominey highlights that the UK has sanctioned more Russian assets than the EU and US combined, and pushed forward the removal of Russia from the Swift banking system while the EU “dithered and delayed”.

Furthermore, while both the UK and the US have prevented Russian banks from accessing their respective currencies for reserves, the EU has yet to do the same with the euro.

The EU has also been humiliated for their ties with Russia. While the UK relies on Russian gas for just four percent of its supply, the EU uses it for 40 percent of theirs.

Additionally, some commentators have argued that French President Emmanuel Macron’s efforts to build a relationship with Putin is actually doing more harm than good.

READ MORE: Labour civil war: Harriet Harman says party has 'woman problem' - Keir [INSIGHT]

Related articles

On February 20, Mr Macron tried to convince Vladimir Putin in a meeting not to escalate the Ukraine situation any further. Putin reassured the French PM that he would pursue a diplomatic route.

The next day, Putin recognised the Luhansk and Donetsk regions as independent and moved his troops into those areas, a move which was widely regarded as a key escalation before the invasion began - leaving Mr Macron humiliated.

The founder of the Brussels-based Centre for Russia, Europe and Asia Studies Theresa Fallon argued that the EU’s failure to present a unified and strong stance against the Russian despot may have served to embolden him in proceeding with the war.

This was also true of the provision of military equipment to Ukraine.

Ms Tominey said: “While we were training 22,000 Ukrainian troops, providing 2,000 anti-tank missiles, and ordering warships to the Black Sea, the Germans were prevaricating over whether to send 5,000 helmets to the Ukrainian army.”

DON'T MISS: Putin may be battling ravaging disease, ex-MI6 boss says [ANALYSIS]

Kremlin coup could oust Putin warns ex-Russian minister [INSIGHT]

Russia 'doesn't understand trouble it's in' as Ukraine secures weapons [REVEAL]

Germany has since broken with historic policy and provided weapons to Ukrainian soldiers.

Finally, Ms Tominey highlights a baffling decision by the EU to sanction Poland - despite, she argues, “the Poles being among the true heroes of the Ukrainian invasion, taking in more than a million refugees.”

The European Parliament voted to sanction Poland and Hungary earlier this week after the European Court of Justice last month dismissed their challenge to a new law that would allow the bloc to cut funds to member countries found to have violated democratic rights and freedoms.

Ms Tominey said: “If the EU had any morality, it would surely be ploughing billions of euros into Poland to stop the refugee crisis there becoming a pan-European one – not least because most of those refugees will not want to be far from Ukraine, desperately hoping they can one day return to their homeland.

“Instead, EU obsessives are continuing with their petty quest, as all the while Russia shows the true meaning of disregarding the rule of law.”

Related articles Final nail in coffin for Putin's freefalling economy Putin reading 'Hitler's playbook' in bloodthirsty power quest Ukraine crisis has unveiled EU’s weak leadership

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220312ei3c004v1


Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. - Annual Report (Form 10-K)
Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. published this content on 14 Mar 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 14 Mar 2022 11:12:21 UTC.
78894 字
2022 年 3 月 14 日
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Filings
SAEXC
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/FF8401ADEBED24183C142F56A5A6DE25972C4F40]

Annual Report (Form 10-K)

egle-20211231

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

☒ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2021

OR

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from to

Commission File Number001-33831

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Republic of the Marshall Islands                               98-0453513
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
300 First Stamford Place,5th Floor
Stamford, Connecticut                    06902
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (203) 276-8100

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                     Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share EGLE              The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes☐No☒

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes☐No☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes☒No☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes☒No☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer", "accelerated filer", "smaller reporting company", and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer   ☐ Accelerated filer       ☒ Non-Accelerated filer ☐
Smaller reporting company ☒ Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provide pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report.☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes☐No☒

The aggregate market value of the registrant's common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2021, the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second quarter, was approximately $269,420,584 based on the closing price of $47.32 per share on The Nasdaq Global Select Market on that date. (For this purpose, all outstanding shares of common stock have been considered held by non-affiliates, other than the shares beneficially owned by directors, officers and certain shareholders of the registrant holding above 10% of the outstanding shares of common stock; without conceding that any of the excluded parties are "affiliates" of the registrant for purposes of the federal securities laws.)

As of March 9, 2022, 13,633,263 shares of the registrant's common stock were outstanding.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed all documents and reports required to be filed by Section 12, 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 subsequent to the distribution of securities under a plan confirmed by a court. Yes☒No☐

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 2022 annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of December 31, 2021, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

         Page
PART I   7
Item 1.  Business                                                                                            7
Item 1A. Risk Factors                                                                                        40
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                           64
Item 2.  Properties                                                                                          64
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings                                                                                   65
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosure                                                                              65
PART II  66
Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities66
Item 6.  Reserved                                                                                            68
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations               69
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk                                          89
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                         90
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                90
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures                                                                             90
Item 9B. Other Information                                                                                   91
PART III 92
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                              92
Item 11. Executive Compensation                                                                              92
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters      92
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence                           93
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services                                                              93
PART IV  94
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules                                                             94
         Signatures                                                                                          96
References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Form 10-K" or "Annual Report") to "we," "us," "our," "Eagle Bulk," "Eagle," the "Company" and similar terms all refer to Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires.

A glossary of shipping terms (the "Glossary") that should be used as a reference when reading this Annual Report can be found immediately prior to Item 1A. Capitalized terms that are used in this Annual Report are either defined when they are first used or in the Glossary.

All dollar amounts are stated in United States ("U.S.") dollars unless otherwise stated.

Reverse Stock Split

Effective as of September 15, 2020, the Company completed a 1-for-7 reverse stock split (the "Reverse Stock Split") of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share. Proportional adjustments were made to the Company's issued and outstanding common stock and to the exercise price and the number of shares issuable upon exercise of all of the Company's outstanding warrants, the exercise price and number of shares issuable upon exercise of the options outstanding under the Company's equity incentive plans, and the number of shares subject to restricted stock awards under the Company's equity incentive plans. Furthermore, the conversion rate set forth in the indenture governing the Company's Convertible Bond Debt was adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. No fractional shares of common stock were issued in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Furthermore, if a shareholder held less than seven shares prior to the Reverse Stock Split, then such shareholder received cash in lieu of the fractional share. All references to common stock and all per share data contained in this Annual Report have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split unless explicitly stated otherwise.

Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factor Summary

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor provided for under these sections. These statements may include words such as "believe," "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of the timing or nature of future operating or financial performance or other events. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations and observations with respect to future events and financial performance.

Where we express an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, our forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by those forward-looking statements. The principal factors that affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows include charter market rates, which fluctuate based on various economic and market conditions, periods of charter hire, vessel operating expenses and voyage costs, which are incurred primarily in U.S. dollars, depreciation expenses, which are a function of the purchase price of our vessels and our vessels' estimated useful lives and scrap value, general and administrative expenses, and financing costs related to our indebtedness. The accuracy of the Company's assumptions, expectations, beliefs and projections depends on events or conditions that change over time and are thus susceptible to change based on actual experience, new developments and known and unknown risks. The Company gives no assurance that the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct and does not undertake any duty to update them. Our business is subject to a number of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. These risks are discussed more fully under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and include, but are not limited to the following:

•changes in demand in the drybulk market, including, without limitation, changes in production of, or demand for, commodities and bulk cargoes, generally or in particular regions;

•greater than anticipated levels of drybulk vessel newbuilding orders or lower than anticipated rates of drybulk vessel scrapping;

•significant decrease in spot charter rates that could impact our profitability;

•failure of our charterers or other counterparties to meet their obligations under our charter agreements;

•changes in rules and regulations applicable to the drybulk industry, including, without limitation, legislation adopted by international bodies or organizations such as the International Maritime Organization and the European Union (the "EU") or by individual countries;

•actions taken by regulatory authorities, including, without limitation, the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC");

•the global economic environment;

•changes in trading patterns significantly impacting overall drybulk tonnage requirements;

•increased fuel costs or bunker prices;

•changes in the typical seasonal variations in drybulk charter rates and other seasonal fluctuations;

•changes in the cost of other modes of bulk commodity transportation;

•an over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity across the industry may depress charter rates;

•changes in general domestic and international political conditions, including China;

•a decrease in the level of China's export of goods or an increase in trade protectionism globally or by certain countries;

•changes in the condition of the Company's vessels or applicable maintenance or regulatory standards (which may affect, among other things, our anticipated dry docking costs);

•increased costs due to compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies and complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations;

•significant deterioration in charter hire rates from current levels or the inability of the Company to achieve its cost-cutting measures;

•the duration and impact of the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic;

•the relative cost and availability of low and high sulfur fuel oil;

•any legal proceedings which we may be involved from time to time; and other factors listed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC");

•the state of the global financial markets may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing;

•the market value of our vessels are volatile and may decline;

•world events, such as terrorist attacks and international conflicts or instability;

•the conflict between Russia and Ukraine may impact our ability to retain and source crew, and in turn, could adversely affect our revenue, expenses, and profitability;

•acts of piracy on ocean going vessels;

•the imposition of sanctions by the United Nations, U.S., EU, UK and/or other relevant authorities;

•our noncompliance with international safety regulations could result in increased liability or adversely affect our insurance coverage;

•increased costs due to increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls;

•arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants;

•risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels;

•inherent risks of our business that might not be adequately covered by insurance;

•requisitions of our vessels by governments during a period of war;

•costs due to our failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA");

•costs and reputational harm due to cyber-attacks or other security breaches;

•risks of default under our loan agreements;

•our failure to manage our planned growth properly or integrate newly acquired vessels;

•risks associated with purchasing and operating secondhand vessels;

•the loss of one or more of our significant customers;

•our failure to employ our vessels profitably due to the competitive international shipping industry;

•our failure to attract and retain key management personnel;

•costs due to the aging of our fleet;

•technological innovations could reduce our charter hire income and the value of our vessels;

•if we are required to pay tax on U.S. source income;

•if we are treated as a "passive foreign investment company";

•the inability of our subsidiaries to declare or pay dividends;

•costs associated with expanding our business;

•losses from derivative instruments;

•interest rate risks under our debt facilities;

•the phase out of LIBOR on our interest rates and interest rate swaps;

•our common stock might be affected by the under-developed corporate laws of the Marshall Islands;

•the fluctuation of the price of our common stock;

•the inactivity of the public market for our common stock;

•certain shareholders own large portions of our outstanding common stock, which may limit stockholders' ability to influence our actions;

•our shareholders are limited in their ability to elect or remove directors;

•our shareholders are subject to advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations;

•our organizational documents contain super majority provisions;

•our organizational documents provide that disputes between us and our shareholders shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal courts located in the Southern District of New York; and

•changes in global, regional, and local regulatory requirements concerning decarbonization which could impact fuel cost, vessel speeds, or trading areas and could attach cost to certain air emissions.

We have based these statements on assumptions and analyses formed by applying our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. The Company's future results may be impacted by adverse economic conditions, such as inflation, deflation, or lack of liquidity in the capital markets, that may negatively affect it or parties with whom it does business. Should one or more of the foregoing risks or uncertainties materialize in a way that negatively impacts the Company, or should the Company's underlying assumptions prove incorrect, the Company's actual results may vary materially from those anticipated in its forward-looking statements, and its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could harm our results. We disclaim any intent or obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview and Recent Developments

Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. ("Eagle" or the "Company") is a U.S.-based, fully integrated, shipowner-operator, providing global transportation solutions to a diverse group of customers including miners, producers, traders, and end users. Headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, with offices in Singapore and Copenhagen, Eagle focuses exclusively on the versatile mid-size drybulk vessel segment and owns one of the largest fleets of Supramax/Ultramax vessels in the world. The Company performs all management services in-house (strategic, commercial, operational, technical, and administrative services) and employs an active management approach to fleet trading with the objective of optimizing revenue performance and maximizing earnings on a risk-managed basis.

As of December 31, 2021, our owned fleet totaled 53 vessels, or 3.19 million deadweight ton ("dwt"), with an average age of 9.3 years.

Vessel acquisitions and sales

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company took delivery of nine vessels and sold one vessel:

•During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company entered into a series of memorandum of agreements to purchase three high specification scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carriers for a total purchase price of $51.5 million including direct expenses of acquisition, of which $3.3 million was paid as a deposit as of December 31, 2020. The Company took delivery of the vessels during the first quarter of 2021.

•During the first quarter of 2021, the Company entered into another series of memorandum of agreements to purchase four vessels. The first vessel is a high-specification scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carrier for a total purchase price of $15.3 million and a warrant convertible into 212,315 common shares of the Company. The remaining three vessels are 2011-built Crown-58 Supramax bulk carriers that were purchased for a total purchase price of $20.5 million and a warrant convertible into 329,583 common shares of the Company. The above mentioned prices include direct expenses of acquisition. Common shares were issuable upon exercise of warrants on a pro-rata basis in connection with each vessel delivery. The warrants were measured at fair value on the date of the memorandum of agreement and recorded as Vessels and vessel improvements on the Consolidated Balance Sheets when the Company took delivery of the vessels. The fair value of the warrants for the total of 541,898 common shares was approximately $10.7 million as of the date of the memorandum of agreements for each vessel. The Company took delivery of the four vessels during the second and third quarters of 2021 and issued 541,898 shares of common stock upon conversion of outstanding warrants.

•During the second quarter of 2021, the Company entered into memorandum of agreements to acquire two high-specification 2015-built scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carriers. This acquisition was partially financed with cash on hand, which included proceeds raised from equity issued under the Company's ATM Offering (as defined below). The total cost of the vessels acquired including direct costs of acquisition was $42.2 million. The Company took delivery of the two vessels in each of the third and fourth quarters of 2021.

•During the second quarter of 2021, the Company signed a memorandum of agreement to sell the vessel Tern for a total net consideration of $9.2 million after commissions and associated selling expenses. The vessel was delivered to the buyer during the third quarter of 2021. The Company recorded a gain of $4.0 million in its Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021. Additionally, the Company wrote off $0.3 million of unamortized drydock costs upon the sale of the vessel.

Vessel upgrades - ballast water systems

During the third quarter of 2018, the Company entered into a contract for the purchase of ballast water treatment systems ("BWTS") on 39 of our owned vessels. The projected costs, including installation, are approximately $0.5 million per BWTS. The Company intends to complete the majority of the installations during scheduled drydockings. The Company completed installation of BWTS on 23 vessels and recorded $11.5 million in Vessels and vessel improvements in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. Additionally, the Company recorded $4.4 million as advances paid towards installation of BWTS on the remaining vessels as a noncurrent asset in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021.

Business Strategy

Our vision is to be the leading integrated drybulk shipowner-operator through consistent outperformance and sustainable growth. We plan to achieve our vision by:

•Focusing on the most versatile drybulk vessel segment

We focus on owning-operating vessels within the mid-size Supramax/Ultramax segment. We consider this vessel segment to be the most versatile amongst the various drybulk asset classes due to the optimal size and specifications of Supramax/Ultramax ships, which allows us to carry the most diversified cargo mix when compared to other sizes of drybulk carriers. With a size ranging from 50,000 to 65,000 dwt and a length of approximately 200 meters, Supramax/Ultramax vessels are able to accommodate large cargo quantities and call on the majority of ports around the globe. In addition, these vessels are equipped with onboard cranes and grabs, giving them the ability to load and discharge cargoes without the need for shore-based port equipment/infrastructure. We believe the versatility and flexibility of Supramax/Ultramax vessels provide for improved risk-adjusted returns.

•Employing an active management strategy for fleet trading

We employ an active management strategy for fleet employment with the objective of optimizing revenue performance and maximizing earnings on a risk-managed basis. Through the execution of various commercial strategies employed across our global trading desks in the United States, Europe, and Asia, the Company has been able to achieve optimal time charter equivalent results and outperform the relevant market index on a consistent basis.

•Executing on fleet renewal and growth

Since 2016, we have executed on a comprehensive fleet renewal program totaling 49 vessel transactions. We have acquired 29 modern vessels and sold 20 of our oldest and least efficient vessels. We believe these transactions have vastly improved our fleet makeup. The average size of our ships has increased, the average age of our fleet has remained fairly static (over the period), and our fleet emissions profile has significantly improved (as measured by fuel consumption per dwt).

•Performing technical management in-house

We perform all technical management services relating to vessel maintenance, vessel repairs and crewing. We believe maintaining technical management in-house allows us to better optimize operating costs and vessel performance.

•Implementing a prudent approach to balance sheet management

We believe the long-term success of our Company is contingent on maintaining a prudent approach to balance sheet management, including working capital optimization, diversifying capital sources, lowering cost of capital, limiting interest rate exposure, and optimizing the debt profile.

•Emphasis on Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") factors

We have developed, maintained and expanded on various initiatives relating to ESG matters. To better inform our shareholders and other stakeholders about these matters of strategic importance, we started publishing an annual ESG Sustainability Report in 2020, prepared in accordance with the Marine Transportation Framework, established by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. The reports are available for download on our company website. Initiatives we have undertaken include:

Environmental

• Executing on a comprehensive fleet renewal program, acquiring modern efficient vessels and selling older, less efficient ones, which has resulted in an improved fleet makeup and reduced greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions on a ton-mile basis.

• Creating a performance department and implementing performance optimization software, which has resulted in improved vessel performance and reduced fuel consumption.

• Applying high specification hull coatings and installing various energy saving devices around the propeller aperture to improve vessel performance and reduce fuel consumption.

• Reducing sulfur emissions by approximately 85% by following strategies to comply with the International Maritime Organization's ("IMO") fuel sulfur content regulations, which went into effect in January 2020.

• Joining the Getting to Zero Coalition, a global alliance of more than 1,540 companies committed to the decarbonization of deep-sea shipping in line with the IMO GHG emissions reduction strategy and, ultimately, the alignment of shipping emissions with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Paris Agreement.

• Providing relevant data on fuel consumption and sailing distances for each of our owned vessels to our lenders that are signatories to the Poseidon Principles. The Poseidon Principles establish a framework for assessing and disclosing the climate alignment of ship finance portfolios and are consistent with the policies and ambitions of the IMO to reduce shipping's total annual GHG emissions by at least 50% by 2050.

• Becoming a signatory to the Sea Cargo Charter, a global framework for aligning chartering activities with responsible environmental behavior in order to promote international shipping's decarbonization. The Charter is consistent with the IMO's ambition for GHG emissions from international shipping to peak as soon as possible and to reduce by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 2008 levels.

• Joining the Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller Center for Zero Carbon Shipping as Mission Ambassador, which is a not-for-profit, independent research and development center. It works across the shipping sector with industry, academia, and authorities to create an overview of viable decarbonization pathways, facilitate the development and implementation of new energy technologies, build confidence in new concepts, and their supply chains and accelerate the energy transition by defining and maturing viable strategic pathways.

• Investigating existing and emerging technologies to reduce GHG emissions including completing our first 100% sustainable biofuel voyage on the M/V Sydney Eagle.

• Joining other industry leaders in calling on policy makers to prioritize the implementation of a carbon pricing mechanism and dedicated shipping industry decarbonized research and development fund during COP26 held in Glasgow, Scotland.

Social

• Abiding by equal opportunity employer guidelines and promoting diversity in the workforce.

• Recognizing and complying with the Maritime Labor Convention, which was adopted by the International Labor Organization ("ILO"). All of our crew labor contracts are International Transport Workers' Federation compliant agreements.

• Becoming a signatory to The Neptune Declaration, a global "call to action" initiative to help end the unprecedented crew change crisis affecting the maritime industry as a result of the outbreak of COVID-19 and its impact to worldwide travel.

• Implementing a robust safety management system.

• Volunteering with, and donating to, various local charities and causes.

• Providing paid internship opportunities to university students.

Governance

• Setting up a best-in-class corporate governance structure.

• Combating corruption through strict internal procedures and training, as well as taking part in collective action through our membership in the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network.

• Adopting a comprehensive code of ethics program within the organization that provides ongoing training and robust controls.

• Focusing on highly transparent reporting of sustainability, operating, and financial performance.

Our Fleet

The 53 vessels in our owned fleet as of December 31, 2021 included the following vessels:

Vessel           Class    Dwt(in thousands) Year Built
Antwerp Eagle    Ultramax 63.5              2015
Bittern          Supramax 57.8              2009
Canary           Supramax 57.8              2009
Cape Town Eagle  Ultramax 63.7              2015
Cardinal         Supramax 55.4              2004
Copenhagen Eagle Ultramax 63.5              2015
Crane            Supramax 57.8              2010
Crested Eagle    Supramax 56.0              2009
Crowned Eagle    Supramax 55.9              2008
Dublin Eagle     Ultramax 63.5              2015
Egret Bulker     Supramax 57.8              2010
Fairfield Eagle  Ultramax 63.3              2013
Gannet Bulker    Supramax 57.8              2010
Golden Eagle     Supramax 56.0              2010
Grebe Bulker      Supramax 57.8 2010
Greenwich Eagle   Ultramax 63.3 2013
Groton Eagle      Ultramax 63.3 2013
Hamburg Eagle     Ultramax 63.3 2014
Helsinki Eagle    Ultramax 63.6 2015
Hong Kong Eagle   Ultramax 63.5 2016
Ibis Bulker       Supramax 57.8 2010
Imperial Eagle    Supramax 56.0 2010
Jaeger            Supramax 52.5 2004
Jay               Supramax 57.8 2010
Kingfisher        Supramax 57.8 2010
Madison Eagle     Ultramax 63.3 2013
Martin            Supramax 57.8 2010
Montauk Eagle     Supramax 58.0 2011
Mystic Eagle      Ultramax 63.3 2013
New London Eagle  Ultramax 63.1 2015
Newport Eagle     Supramax 58.0 2011
Nighthawk         Supramax 57.8 2011
Oriole            Supramax 57.8 2011
Oslo Eagle        Ultramax 63.7 2015
Owl               Supramax 57.8 2011
Petrel Bulker     Supramax 57.8 2011
Puffin Bulker     Supramax 57.8 2011
Roadrunner Bulker Supramax 57.8 2011
Rotterdam Eagle   Ultramax 63.6 2017
Rowayton Eagle    Ultramax 63.3 2013
Sandpiper Bulker  Supramax 57.8 2011
Sankaty Eagle     Supramax 58.0 2011
Santos Eagle      Ultramax 63.5 2015
Shanghai Eagle    Ultramax 63.4 2016
Singapore Eagle   Ultramax 63.4 2017
Southport Eagle   Ultramax 63.3 2013
Stamford Eagle    Ultramax 61.5 2016
Stellar Eagle     Supramax 56.0 2009
Stockholm Eagle   Ultramax 63.3 2016
Stonington Eagle  Ultramax 63.3 2012
Sydney Eagle      Ultramax 63.5 2015
Valencia Eagle    Ultramax 63.6 2015
Westport Eagle    Ultramax 63.3 2015
Nature of Business

The following is a brief description of the commercial strategies we use to employ our vessels:

1)Time Charter-Out

Time charter-out describes a contract for the use of a ship for an agreed period of time, at an agreed hire rate per day. Commercial control of the vessel becomes the responsibility of the time charterer who performs the voyage(s). The time charterer is responsible to pay the agreed hire and also purchase the fuel and pay port expenses. Time charters can range from as short as one voyage (approximately 20-40 days) to multiple years.

2)Voyage Chartering

Voyage chartering involves the employment of a vessel between designated ports for the duration of the voyage only. Freight is earned on the volume of cargo carried. In contrast to the Time charter-out method, in a voyage charter, we maintain control of the commercial operation and are responsible for managing the voyage, including vessel scheduling and routing, as well as any related costs, such as fuel, port expenses and other expenses. Having the ability to control and manage the voyage, we are able to generate increased margin through operational efficiencies, business intelligence and scale. Additionally, contracting to carry cargoes on voyage terms often gives us the ability to utilize a wide range of vessels to perform the contract (as long as the vessel meets the contractual parameters), thereby giving significant operational flexibility to the fleet. Such vessels include not only ships we own, but also third-party ships, which can be chartered-in on an opportunistic basis (the inverse of a Time charter-out strategy).

3)Vessel + Cargo Arbitrage

With this strategy, we contract to carry a cargo on voyage terms (as described above under the caption "Voyage Chartering") with a specific ship earmarked to cover the commitment. As the date of cargo loading approaches, the market may have moved in such a way whereby we elect to substitute a different vessel to perform the voyage, while assigning a different piece of business to the original earmarked ship. Taken as a whole, this strategy can generate increased revenues, on a risk-managed basis, as compared to the original cargo-vessel pairing.

4)Time Charter-In

This strategy involves us leasing a vessel from a third-party shipowner at a set U.S. dollar per day rate. As referenced above, vessels can be time-chartered in order to cover existing cargo commitments, resulting in a Vessel+Cargo arbitrage. These ships may be chartered-in for periods longer than required for the initial cargo or arbitrage, and can also be chartered-in opportunistically in order to benefit from rate dislocations and to obtain risk-managed exposure to the market overall.

5)Hedging (FFAs)

Forward Freight Agreements ("FFAs") are cleared financial instruments, which we can use to hedge market rate exposure by locking in a fixed rate against the eventual forward market. FFAs are an important tool to manage market risk associated with chartering-in of third-party vessels. FFAs can also be used to lock in revenue streams on owned vessels or against forward cargo commitments the Company may enter into.

6)Asymmetric Optionality

This is a blended strategy approach whereby we utilize time charters, cargo commitments and FFAs together to hedge away market exposure while maintaining upside optionality to positive market volatility. As a simplified example, a ship may be time chartered-in for one year with a further optional year. In such a scenario, and dependent on market conditions, we could sell an FFA for the firm 1-year period commitment, essentially eliminating exposure to the market, while maintaining full upside on rate developments for the optional year.

Charter Characteristics                        VoyageCharter         TimeCharter            IndexCharter
Typical contract length                        Singlevoyage          One or multiplevoyages Six monthsor more
Hire rate basis(1)                             Per MT of cargoloaded Daily                  Linked toBSI
Voyage expenses(2)                             We pay                Customerpays           Customerpays
Vessel operating expenses for owned vessels(3) We pay                We pay                 We pay
Charter hire expense for vessels chartered-in  We pay                We pay                 We pay
Off-hire(4)                                    Customer does not pay Customer does not pay  Customer does not pay
(1)"Hire rate" refers to a sum of money paid to the vessel owner by a charterer under a time charter party for the use of a vessel. "Freight rate basis" means the sum of money paid to the vessel owner under a voyage charter or contract of affreightment based on the unit measurement of cargo loaded. "BSI" refers to the "Baltic Supramax Index" and the daily hire rate varies based on the Index. Please refer to the Glossary for further detail on how the BSI is calculated.

(2)"Voyage expenses" include fuel, port charges, canal tolls, and brokerage commissions.

(3)"Vessel operating expenses" include crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lubes and communication expenses.

(4)"Off-hire" refers to the time a vessel is unavailable to perform the service either due to scheduled or unscheduled repairs.

The Company employs its fleet opportunistically in an effort to maximize earnings. The Company enters into charters and is continuously developing contractual relationships directly with cargo interests. These relationships and the related cargo contracts have the dual benefit of providing greater operational efficiencies and act as a balance to the Company's naturally long position to the market. Notwithstanding the focus on short term chartering, the Company consistently monitors the drybulk shipping market and, based on market conditions, will consider entering into long-term time charters on our owned fleet when appropriate.

The following summary represents the charter characteristics of our vessels as of December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019:

               December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Time Charter   28                18                28
Voyage Charter 22                25                17
Shipyard(1)    3                 2                 5
Total          53                45                50
(1)The vessels are in shipyard as of the year end undergoing statutory drydock, BWTS or scrubber installation and repairs.

In connection with the charters of each of our vessels, unaffiliated third-party ship brokers earn commissions ranging from 1.25% to 5.00% of the total daily charter hire rate of each charter with the commission rate depending on the number of brokers involved with arranging the relevant charter.

Our vessels operate worldwide in compliance with trading limits imposed by governmental economic sanctions regimes and insurance terms and do not operate in or conduct business with countries or territories that are subject to United States, European Union ("EU"), United Kingdom or United Nations ("UN") comprehensive country-wide or territory-wide sanctions.

Our Customers

Our customers include some of the world's leading agricultural, mining, manufacturing and trading companies, as well as smaller, privately owned companies. Our assessment of customers' financial condition and reliability is an important factor in negotiating employment for our vessels. We evaluate the counterparty risk of potential customers based on our management's experience in the shipping industry combined with the additional input of an independent credit risk consultant. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, we did not have a customer who accounted for more than 10% of our revenue.

Operations

There are two central aspects to the operation of our fleet:

•Commercial operations, which involve chartering and operating a vessel; and

•Technical operations, which involve maintaining, crewing and repairing a vessel.

We carry out the commercial, technical and strategic management of our fleet through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Eagle Bulk Management LLC, a Marshall Islands limited liability company which maintains its principal executive offices in Stamford, Connecticut. We also maintain offices in Copenhagen, Denmark and Singapore. Our staff in the three offices worldwide provide the following services:

•Commercial operations and technical supervision;

•Vessel maintenance and repair;

•Vessel acquisition and sale;

•Legal, compliance and insurance services and

•Finance, accounting, treasury and information technology services.

Each of the Company's vessels serve the same type of customer, have similar operation and maintenance requirements, operate in the same regulatory environment, and are subject to similar economic characteristics. Based on this, the Company has determined that it operates in one reportable segment which is engaged in the ocean transportation of drybulk cargoes worldwide through the ownership and operation of drybulk vessels.

Commercial and Strategic Management

We perform the commercial and strategic management of our fleet including obtaining employment for our vessels and maintaining relationships with the charterers of our vessels. We have three offices across the globe located in Copenhagen, Singapore and Stamford, Connecticut which allows for 24 hour global market coverage. We believe that due to our management team's experience in operating drybulk vessels, we have access to a broad range of charterers and can employ our fleet efficiently in diverse market conditions and achieve high utilization rates.

Being an active owner-operator means effectively seeking to operate our own vessels when possible, as compared with time chartering them to other operators, all with a view toward achieving higher-than-market net charter hire income. In doing so, we believe we can take advantage of rapidly changing market conditions and obtain better operational efficiencies from our fleet.

Technical Management

We have established in-house technical management capabilities, through which we provide technical management services to all vessels in our fleet.Technical management includes managing day-to-day operation of the vessel and

machinery, performing general maintenance, ensuring regulatory and classification society compliance, supervising the general efficiency of vessels, arranging the hire of qualified officers and crew, planning, arranging and supervising drydocking and repairs, purchasing supplies, spare parts, lubes, and new equipment for vessels, and appointing supervisors and technical consultants.

Human Capital Management

As of December 31, 2021, we have an aggregate of 94 shore-based personnel employed in our three office locations. We value a diverse workforce and our shore-based personnel comprises of 25 different nationalities across three worldwide offices. We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in our hiring and promoting practices, benefits and wages.

Our values

•PASSIONfor excellence drives us

•EMPOWERMENTof our people leads to better results

•INTEGRITYdefines our culture

•RESPONSIBILITYto safety underpins every decision

•FORWARD THINKINGtakes us to a more successful tomorrow

Talent management and leadership

We take a systemic approach to hiring, training and developing our employees based on our code of ethics. This includes creating individual goals based on company priorities and providing employees periodic feedback in order to assess individual performance. We have developed internal promoting practices based on objective annual performance evaluations, encouraging employees to develop within their chosen career path and providing necessary professional trainings as needed. We also employ a succession planning process that identifies suitable candidates, and their development needs, for key positions in the company.

In addition to our shore-based personnel, we currently crew our vessels with officers and crew members from Ukraine, Russia, Georgia, Bulgaria and the Philippines who are hired through third-party crew managers. Historically, the majority of our crew have been hired through two crew manning agents, one Russian and the other Ukrainian. The officers and crew are primarily Russian and Ukrainian. The evolving situation in Ukraine and the sanctions being imposed may adversely affect our ability to hire and/or pay for our crew for our vessels. As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 1,000 officers and crew members on our owned fleet. The third-party crew managers recruit crew members with training, licenses and experience appropriate for our vessels. On board, our crews perform most operational and maintenance work and assist in supervising work during cargo operations and at drydock facilities. We often man our vessels with more crew members than are required by the vessel's Flag State safe manning requirement in order to allow for the performance of routine maintenance duties. All of our crew members are subject to and are paid commensurate with international collective bargaining agreements and, therefore, we do not anticipate any labor disruptions. The international collective bargaining agreements, to which we are a party, are typically renewed for a two-year term.

Human rights, health and safety

We continuously strive to provide a secure working environment for both our shore-based personnel as well as our crew members on our ships. During COVID-19, we have taken extraordinary measures to protect the health of our shore based employees by allowing our employees to work from home during the peak of the pandemic. We took measures to adapt all of our offices to the new safety precautions to include social distancing guidelines as well as ensuring mask wearing compliance.

For our crew members on our ships, we maintain security measures to ensure well-being and safety on our ships. We developed and implemented a safety management system in compliance with the International Safety Management Code. All necessary certificates required by the IMO were obtained by our in-house technical managers. We comply

with the Maritime Labor Convention adopted by the ILO in 2006. The Convention outlines the minimum requirements for seafarers to work, conditions of employment, facilities while on board, and health and welfare protection. The Convention obliges all ships above 500 gross tons in international trade to have a Maritime Labor Certificate and a Declaration of Maritime Labor Compliance. All our vessels and crew are compliant with the Convention, and we intend to maintain them accordingly. We also publish our ESG report on an annual basis where we report key metrics such as marine casualties, lost time incident rate and port state control.

During the pandemic, government-imposed travel restrictions, which were put in place in order to curtail the spread of the virus, created substantial challenges with respect to being able to effect crew changes and repatriation, and our seafarers sometimes had to work past their contractual employment periods. At Eagle, it has been a strategic priority to relieve our seafarers as close to their contractual due dates as possible, and we have successfully managed crew changeovers even in light of evolving travel restrictions in many countries. In order to achieve this result, we had to divert some of our ships and/or incur additional off-hire costs in addition to higher crew change expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we incurred approximately 115 days of additional off-hire related to crew changes. These costs notwithstanding, we believe it is our obligation to Eagle's seafarers to ensure their overall health and safety.

Permits, Authorizations and Regulations

We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our vessels. The kinds of permits, licenses and certificates required depend upon several factors, including the commodity transported, the waters in which the vessel operates, the nationality of the vessel's crew and the age of a vessel. We expect to be able to obtain all permits, licenses and certificates currently required to permit our vessels to operate. Additional laws and regulations, environmental or otherwise, may be adopted which increase the cost of us doing business.

Our vessels operate worldwide in compliance with trading limits imposed by our insurance terms and do not operate in or conduct business with countries or territories that are subject to U.S., EU, UK or UN comprehensive country-wide or territory-wide sanctions.

Environmental and Other Regulations

Government regulation significantly affects the trading locations and operation of our vessels. We are subject to international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the countries in which our vessels may transit or operate relating to safety and health and environmental protection including the storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of hazardous and non-hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination and liability for damage to natural resources. Compliance with such laws, regulations and other requirements entails significant expense, including required vessel modifications and implementation of certain operating procedures.

A variety of government and private entities subject our vessels to both scheduled and unscheduled inspections. These entities include the local port authorities (including national Coast Guards, harbor masters and port state control authorities), classification societies, flag state administrations (country of vessel registry), as well as our charterers and terminal operators. Certain of these entities require us to obtain permits, licenses and certificates for the operation of our vessels. Failure to maintain the necessary permits or approvals could result in substantial costs in fines and penalties or result in the temporary suspension of the operation of one or more of our vessels.

We believe that the heightening levels of environmental and quality concerns among regulators, charterers and the insurance industry is leading to greater inspection and safety requirements on all vessels, which may accelerate the recycling of older vessels throughout the shipping industry. Increasingly stringent environmental regulations have created a demand for vessels that conform to the most up-to-date environmental standards, whether through retrofitting or new design. We strive to maintain operating standards for all of our vessels that emphasize operational safety, quality maintenance, continuous training of our officers and crews and adherence to applicable international regulations. We believe that our vessels are in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations and

that our vessels have all material permits, licenses, certificates or other authorizations necessary for the conduct of our operations. However, because such laws and regulations are subject to change and may impose stricter requirements, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with these requirements, or the impact of these requirements on the resale value or useful lives of our vessels.

International Maritime Organization

The UN's IMO has adopted several international conventions, including the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto ("MARPOL"). MARPOL has been in effect since October 2, 1983 and has been adopted by over 150 nations, including many of the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate. MARPOL sets forth pollution-prevention requirements applicable to different types of vessels and is broken into six Annexes, each of which regulates a different source of pollution. Annex I relates to oil leakage or spilling; Annexes II and III relate to harmful substances carried in bulk, in liquid or packaged form, respectively; Annexes IV and V relate to sewage and garbage management, respectively; and Annex VI relates to air emissions. Annex VI was separately adopted by the IMO in September of 1997.

In 2013, the Marine Environmental Protection Committee ("MEPC") was adopted by resolution amendments to MARPOL Annex I Conditional Assessment Scheme ("CAS"). The amendments, which became effective on October 1, 2014, pertain to the inspections of bulk carriers and tankers and require compliance with the 2011 Enhanced Survey Programme Code, which enhances the programs of inspections. We made the necessary financial expenditures to comply with these amendments.

Air Emissions

Annex VI to MARPOL, which was designed to address air pollution from vessels and which became effective on May 19, 2005, sets limits on sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from ships and prohibits deliberate emissions of ozone depleting substances, such as chlorofluorocarbons. Annex VI also regulates shipboard incineration and the emission of volatile organic compounds from tankers. In addition, Annex VI includes a global cap on the sulfur content of fuel oil and allows for special areas to be established with more stringent controls of sulfur emissions known as "Emission Control Areas" ("ECAs"), as explained below.

MEPC adopted amendments to Annex VI on October 10, 2008, which entered into force on July 1, 2010. The amended Annex VI seeks to further reduce air pollution by, among other things, implementing a progressive reduction of the amount of sulfur contained in any fuel oil used on board ships. As of January 1, 2020, sulfur content could not exceed 0.50% unless an approved exhaust gas cleaning system ("scrubber") is in use. Additionally, in October 2018, MEPC amended Annex VI to prohibit the carriage of bunkers above 0.5% sulfur on ships on or after March 1, 2020, with the exception of vessels fitted with scrubbers which can carry fuel of higher sulfur content.

We have implemented a comprehensive approach to compliance with IMO sulfur regulations. We believe that fitting scrubbers is the most cost-effective approach to achieve compliance for the majority of the ships in our fleet. As of December 31, 2021, 47 of our 53 vessels were fitted with scrubbers, making us the largest owner of scrubber fitted Supramax/Ultramax vessels in the world. The balance of our fleet complies with the MARPOL Annex VI sulfur limit through consumption of compliant fuels.

Sulfur content standards are stricter within certain ECAs. As of January 1, 2015, ships operating within an ECA may not use fuel with sulfur content in excess of 0.1%. Annex VI establishes procedures for designating new ECAs. Currently, the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, certain coastal areas of North America and United States Caribbean area have been designated as ECAs. Ocean-going vessels in these areas will be subject to stringent emissions controls, which may cause us to incur additional costs to procure compliant fuel and/or install scrubbers. If additional ECAs are approved by the IMO or other new or more stringent requirements relating to emissions from marine engines or port operations by vessels are adopted by the states where our vessels operate, compliance with these regulations could entail additional expenses relating to operation of scrubbers, purchase of compliant fuel or otherwise increase the costs of our operations.

Annex VI also establishes progressive reductions in nitrogen oxide emissions from marine diesel engines installed on ships, with a "Tier II" emission limit for engines installed on a ship constructed on or after January 1, 2011; and a more stringent "Tier III" emission limit for engines installed on a ship constructed on or after January 1, 2016 operating in ECAs.

We believe we are in substantial compliance with all current requirements of Annex VI, but we may incur additional costs to comply with more stringent standards. Additional or new conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could require the installation of expensive emission control systems and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Safety Management System Requirements

The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ("SOLAS") and the International Convention on Load Lines (the "LL Convention") impose a variety of standards that regulate the design and operational features of ships. The IMO periodically revises the SOLAS and LL Convention standards. In addition, the Convention of Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims establishes limits of liability for loss of life or personal injury claim and property claims against shipowners.

The operation of our ships is also affected by Chapter IX of SOLAS, which sets forth the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention (the "ISM Code"). The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive Safety Management System ("SMS") that includes, among other things, the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for emergency response. We rely upon the SMS that we have developed for compliance with the ISM Code. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. As of the date of this filing, all of the vessels in our owned fleet are ISM code-certified.

The ISM Code requires that vessel operators obtain a safety management certificate ("SMC") for each vessel they operate. This certificate evidences compliance by a vessel's operators with the ISM Code requirements for a SMS. No vessel can obtain a SMC under the ISM Code unless its manager has been awarded a document of compliance ("DoC") issued by the vessel's flag state or by an approved organization on behalf of the flag state. Our in-house technical managers have obtained DoC for all offices and safety management certificates for all of our vessels for which the certificates are required by the IMO, which certificates are renewed as needed.

Pollution Control and Liability Requirements

The IMO has negotiated international conventions that impose liability for pollution in international waters and the territorial waters of the signatories to such conventions. For example, the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments ("BWM Convention") is designed to protect the marine environment from the introduction of non-native (alien) species as a result of the carrying of ships' ballast water from one place to another. The BWM Convention was adopted in 2004 and became effective on September 8, 2017. The BWM Convention is applicable to new and existing vessels that are designed to carry ballast water. It defines a discharge standard consisting of maximum allowable levels of critical invasive species. This standard is met by installing ballast water treatment systems ("BWTS") that render the invasive species non-viable. In addition, each vessel is required to have on board a valid International Ballast Water Management Certificate, a Ballast Water Management Plan, and a Ballast Water Record Book.

Under relevant U.S. federal laws, USCG approved BWTS are required to be installed in all vessels at the first out of water drydocking after January 1, 2016 if these vessels are to discharge ballast water inside 12 nautical miles of the coast of the United States. An Alternative Management System ("AMS") may be installed in lieu of a USCG approved BWTS. An AMS is valid for five years from the date of required compliance with ballast water discharge standards, by which time it must be replaced by an approved system unless the AMS itself achieves approval.

On August 14, 2018, the Company entered into a contract for the purchase of BWTS on all of our owned vessels. The projected costs, including installation, is approximately $0.5 million per BWTS. The Company intends to complete the majority of the installations during scheduled drydockings. The Company completed installation of BWTS on 23 vessels and recorded $11.5 million in Vessels and vessel improvements in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. Additionally, the Company recorded $4.4 million as advances paid towards installation of BWTS on the remaining vessels as a noncurrent asset in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021.

The IMO adopted the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage (the "Bunker Convention") to impose strict liability on shipowners for pollution damage in jurisdictional waters of ratifying states caused by discharges of bunker fuel. The Bunker Convention requires registered owners of ships over 1,000 gross tons to maintain insurance for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, as amended). With respect to non-ratifying states, liability for spills or releases of oil carried as fuel in ships' bunkers typically is determined by national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the events or damages occur. Our ships carry insurance in excess of the statutory requirements.

In March 2006, the IMO amended Annex I to MARPOL, including a regulation relating to oil fuel tank protection, which became effective August 1, 2007. The regulation applies to various ships delivered on or after August 1, 2010. The requirements it contains address issues such as fuel tanks, protected location accidental oil fuel outflow performance standards, a tank capacity limit and certain other maintenance, inspection and engineering standards.

IMO regulations also require owners and operators of certain vessels to adopt Ship Oil Pollution Emergency Plans. Periodic training and drills for response personnel and for vessels and their crews are required.

In March 2021, the U.S. government began investigating an allegation that one of the Company's vessels may have improperly disposed of ballast water that entered the engine room bilges during a repair. The investigation of this alleged violation of environmental laws is ongoing, and although at this time we do not believe that this matter will have a material impact on the Company, our financial condition or results of operations, we cannot determine what penalties, if any, will be imposed. We have posted a surety bond as security for any fines, penalties or associated costs that may be issued, and the Company is cooperating fully with the U.S. government in its investigation of this matter. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company incurred and recorded $2.8 million as Other operating expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations, relating to this incident, which includes legal fees, surety bond expenses, vessel off-hire, crew changes and travel costs.

Anti-Fouling Requirements

In 2001, the IMO adopted the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Fouling Systems on Ships (the "Anti-Fouling Convention"). The Anti-Fouling Convention prohibits the use of organotin compound coatings to prevent the attachment of mollusks and other sea life to the hulls of vessels. Vessels of over 400 gross tons engaged in international voyages are required to undergo an initial survey before the vessel is put into service or before an International Anti-Fouling System Certificate is issued for the first time and subsequent surveys when the anti-fouling systems are altered or replaced. We have obtained Anti-Fouling System Certificates for all of our vessels that are subject to the Anti-Fouling Convention.

In November 2020, MEPC 75 approved draft amendments to the Anti-Fouling Convention to prohibit anti-fouling systems containing cybutryne. These amendments were adopted at MEPC 76 in June 2021 and will apply to ships from January 1, 2023.

Compliance Enforcement

The flag state, as defined by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, is responsible for implementing and enforcing a broad range of international maritime regulations with respect to all ships granted the right to fly its flag. The "Shipping Industry Guidelines on Flag State Performance" evaluates and reports on flag states based on factors such as sufficiency of infrastructure, ratification, implementation, and enforcement of principal international maritime treaties, supervision of statutory ship surveys, casualty investigations, and participation at IMO and ILO meetings. Our vessels are flagged in the Marshall Islands. Marshall Islands-flagged vessels have historically received a good assessment in the shipping industry. We recognize the importance of a credible flag state and do not intend to use flag states with poor performance indicators.

Noncompliance with the ISM Code or other IMO regulations may subject the shipowner or bareboat charterer to increased liability, lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels or result in the denial of access to, or detention in some ports. As of the date of this report, each of our vessels is ISM Code certified and it is our intent to maintain ISM code certification. However, there can be no assurance that such certificates will be maintained in the future.

The IMO continues to introduce new regulations. It is impossible to predict what additional regulations, if any, may be passed by the IMO and what effect, if any, such regulations may have on our operations.

The U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act

The U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA") established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all "owners and operators" whose vessels trade with the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States' territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. The United States has also enacted the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), which applies to the discharge of hazardous substances other than oil, except in limited circumstances whether on land or at sea. OPA and CERCLA both define "owner or operator," in the case of a vessel, as "any person owning, operating or chartering by demise," the vessel. Both OPA and CERCLA impact our operations.

Under OPA, vessel owners and operators are "responsible parties" and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (i.e., no showing of "fault" is required) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war. OPA defines these other damages broadly to include:

•Injury to, destruction or loss of, or loss of use of, natural resources and related assessment costs;

•Injury to, or economic losses resulting from, the destruction of real and personal property;

•Net loss of taxes, royalties, rents, fees or net profit revenues resulting from injury, destruction or loss of real or personal property, or natural resources;

•Loss of subsistence use of natural resources that are injured, destroyed, or lost;

•Lost profits or impairment of earning capacity due to injury, destruction or loss of real or personal property or natural resources; and

•Net cost of providing increased or additional public services necessitated by removal activities following a discharge of oil such as protection from fire, safety or health hazards, and loss of subsistence use of natural resources.

OPA contains statutory caps on liability and damages; such caps do not apply to direct cleanup costs. Effective November 19, 2019, the USCG adjusted the limits of OPA liability for non-tank vessels (e.g. drybulk) to the greater of $1,200 per gross ton or $997,100 (subject to periodic adjustment for inflation). These limits of liability may not apply if an incident was caused by the violation of an applicable United States federal safety, construction or operating regulation by a responsible party (or its agent, employee or a person acting pursuant to a contractual

relationship), or a responsible party's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The limitation on liability similarly may not apply if the responsible party fails or refuses to (i) report the incident where the responsibility party knows or has reason to know of the incident; (ii) reasonably cooperate and assist as requested in connection with oil removal activities; or (iii) without sufficient cause, comply with an order issued under the Federal Water Pollution Act (Section 311 (c), (e)) or the Intervention on the High Seas Act.

CERCLA contains a similar liability regime whereby owners and operators of vessels are liable for cleanup, removal and remedial costs, as well as damage for, injury to, or destruction or loss of, natural resources, including the reasonable costs associated with assessing same, and health assessments or health effects studies. There is no liability if the discharge of a hazardous substance results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war. Liability under CERCLA is limited to the greater of $300 per gross ton or $5.0 million for vessels carrying a hazardous substance as cargo or residue and the greater of $300 per gross ton or $500,000 for any other vessel. These limits do not apply (rendering the responsible person liable for the total cost of response and damages) if the release or threat of release of a hazardous substance resulted from willful misconduct or gross negligence, or the primary cause of the release was a violation of applicable safety, construction or operating standards or regulations. The limitation on liability also does not apply if the responsible person fails or refused to provide all reasonable cooperation and assistance as requested in connection with response activities where the vessel is subject to OPA.

OPA and CERCLA both require owners and operators of vessels to establish and maintain with the USCG evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet the maximum amount of liability to which the particular responsible person may be subject. Vessel owners and operators may satisfy their financial responsibility obligations by providing a proof of insurance, a surety bond, qualification as a self-insurer or a guarantee. We have complied with the regulations by providing a certificate of responsibility from third party entities that are acceptable to the USCG.

We currently maintain pollution liability coverage insurance in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident for each of our vessels. If the damages from a catastrophic spill were to exceed our insurance coverages, it could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation.

OPA and CERCLA each preserve the right to recover damages under existing law, including maritime tort law. Also, OPA specifically permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, provided they accept, at a minimum, the levels of liability established under OPA; some states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for oil spills. In some cases, states which have enacted such legislation have not yet issued implementing regulations defining vessel owners' responsibilities under these laws. We intend to comply with all applicable state regulations in the ports where our vessels call. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable existing state requirements. In addition, we intend to comply with all future applicable state regulations in the ports where our vessels call.

Other Environmental Initiatives

The United States Clean Water Act (the "CWA") prohibits the discharge of oil, hazardous substances and ballast water in United States navigable waters unless authorized by a duly-issued permit or exemption and imposes strict liability in the form of penalties for any unauthorized discharges. The CWA also imposes substantial liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages and complements the remedies available under OPA and CERCLA. Furthermore, many U.S. states that border a navigable waterway have enacted environmental pollution laws that impose strict liability on a person for removal costs and damages resulting from a discharge of oil or a release of a hazardous substance. These laws may be more stringent than United States federal law. In 2015, the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and the Army Corps of Engineers ("Corps") expanded the definition of "waters of the United States" ("WOTUS"), thereby expanding federal authority under the CWA. However, in April 2020, the EPA and the Corps published a final rule replacing the 2015 rules, and significantly reducing the waters subject to federal regulation under the CWA. On August 30, 2021, a federal court struck down the replacement rule and, on December 7, 2021, the EPA and the Corps published a proposed rule that would put back into place the pre-2015 definition of "waters of the United States," updated to reflect Supreme Court decisions, while the agencies continue to consult

with stakeholders on future regulatory actions. As a result of such recent developments, substantial uncertainty exists regarding the scope of waters protected under the CWA.

The EPA and the USCG have enacted rules relating to ballast water discharge, which requires the installation of equipment on vessels to treat ballast water before it is discharged or the implementation of other port facility disposal arrangements or procedures. The EPA will regulate these ballast water discharges and other discharges incidental to the normal operation of certain vessels within United States waters pursuant to the Vessel Incidental Discharge Act ("VIDA"), which was signed into law on December 4, 2018 and replaces the 2013 Vessel General Permit ("VGP") program (which authorizes discharges incidental to operations of commercial vessels and contains numeric ballast water discharge limits for most vessels) and current USCG ballast water management regulations adopted under the U.S. National Invasive Species Act ("NISA"). VIDA establishes a new framework for the regulation of vessel incidental discharges under the CWA, requires the EPA to develop performance standards for those discharges within two years of enactment, and requires the USCG to develop implementation, compliance, and enforcement regulations within two years of EPA's promulgation of standards. Under VIDA, all provisions of the 2013 VGP and USCG regulations regarding ballast water treatment remain in force and effect until the EPA and USCG regulations are finalized. Non-military, non-recreational vessels greater than 79 feet in length must continue to comply with the requirements of the VGP, including submission of a Notice of Intent ("NOI") or retention of a PARI form and submission of annual reports. On October 26, 2020, the EPA published a proposed rule establishing national standards for discharges of ballast water under VIDA. Within two years after the EPA publishes its final standards, the USCG must develop corresponding implementation, compliance, and enforcement regulations regarding ballast water.

In addition, certain states have enacted additional discharge standards beyond the requirements of the VIDA. These state specific standards introduce more stringent requirements, such as those further restricting ballast water discharges and preventing the introduction of invasive species. The VIDA and state-specific regulations and any similar restrictions enacted in the future may increase the costs of operating in the relevant waters.

The U.S. Clean Air Act (the "CAA") requires the EPA to promulgate standards applicable to certain air pollutants, including volatile organic compounds. The CAA also requires states to draft State Implementation Plans ("SIPs") designed to attain national health-based air quality standards in each state. State-specific SIPs may include regulations concerning emissions resulting from vessel loading and unloading operations, including the installation of vapor control equipment.

Our operations occasionally generate and require the transportation, treatment and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes that are subject to the requirements of the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA,") or comparable state, local or foreign requirements. The RCRA imposes significant record keeping and reporting requirements on transporters of hazardous waste. In addition, from time to time we arrange for the disposal of hazardous waste or hazardous substances at off-site disposal facilities. If such materials are improperly disposed of by third parties, we may still be held liable for cleanup costs under applicable laws.

In October 2009, the EU amended a directive to impose criminal sanctions for illicit ship-source discharges of polluting substances, including minor discharges, if committed with intent, recklessly or with serious negligence and the discharges individually or in the aggregate result in deterioration of the quality of water. Aiding and abetting the discharge of a polluting substance may also lead to criminal penalties. Member States were required to enact laws or regulations to comply with the directive by the end of 2010. Criminal liability for pollution may result in substantial penalties or fines and increased civil liability claims. The directive applies to all types of vessels, irrespective of their flag, but certain exceptions apply to warships or where human safety or the safety of the ship is in danger.

The European Union has adopted several regulations and directives requiring, among other things, more frequent inspections of high-risk ships, as determined by type, age, and flag as well as the number of times the ship has been detained. The European Union also adopted and extended a ban on substandard ships and enacted a minimum ban period and a definitive ban for repeated offenses. Regulations also provided the European Union with greater authority and control over classification societies, by imposing more requirements on classification societies and providing for fines or penalty payments for organizations that failed to comply. Furthermore, the EU has

implemented regulations requiring vessels to use reduced sulfur content fuel for their main and auxiliary engines. The EU Directive 2005/33/EC (amending Directive 1999/32/EC) introduced requirements parallel to those in Annex VI relating to the sulfur content of marine fuels.

Greenhouse Gas Regulation

Currently, GHG emissions from international shipping are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which entered into force in 2005 and pursuant to which adopting countries have been required to implement national programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with targets extended through 2020. International negotiations are continuing with respect to a successor to the Kyoto Protocol, and restrictions on shipping emissions may be included in any new treaty. In December 2009, more than 27 nations, including the U.S. and China, signed the Copenhagen Accord, which includes a non-binding commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris resulted in the Paris Agreement, which entered into force on November 4, 2016 and does not directly limit greenhouse gas emissions from ships. Although the U.S. withdrew from the Paris Agreement effective November 4, 2020, the U.S. rejoined the Paris Agreement on February 19, 2021, following a January 20, 2021, executive order by U.S. President Biden.

Although the international agreements discussed above do not currently provide for GHG emissions limits or reporting for international shipping, the IMO and EU have imposed reporting requirements and the IMO has proposed emissions requirements. As of January 1, 2019, owners and operators of ships above 5,000 gross tonnage are required to have a documented plan in place to monitor CO2 emissions to comply with the IMO's data collection system ("IMO DCS") requirement. The Company updated its existing Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plans ("SEEMP") in 2018 documenting the methodologies we decided to use for collecting and reporting the required data to flag state. Our updated SEEMPs have been verified by a recognized independent organization and we are collecting all relevant data in our onboard data collection system since the start of 2019. Starting January 1, 2020, a recognized independent organization will review and certify the annual emissions data submitted by each vessel and issue each vessel a Statement of Compliance. The independent organization will then submit the data annually to the IMO Ship Fuel Oil Consumption Database. The IMO will utilize this data to produce an annual report to the MEPC, summarizing the data collected.

The Company also established and received approval for its EU Monitoring, Reporting, Verification ("MRV") monitoring plans from an independent verifier in 2017. The reporting requirements of the EU MRV are similar to those under IMO DCS but only apply to ships calling at European Economic Area (EU, Norway and Iceland) ports. Data collection takes place on a per voyage basis and started January 1, 2018. The reported CO2 emissions, together with additional data, are independently verified before being sent to a central database managed by the European Maritime Safety Agency ("EMSA"). The aggregated ship emission and efficiency data is published annually by the European Commission starting June 30, 2019. Also, on July 14, 2021, the European Commission adopted a series of legislative proposals setting out how it intends to achieve climate neutrality in the EU by 2050, including extending its emissions trading system to the maritime sector. The proposed extension of the emissions trading system would cover CO2 emissions from ships above 5,000 gross tonnage. The obligations would be gradually phased in over a three- to four-year period, such that allowances for 100% of verified emissions would not be required for several years. A vote on the final proposal is likely to occur in approximately June 2022. The Company is evaluating the potential impact that the final proposal, if approved, could have on the Company and its operations.

During MEPC 76 in June 2021, the IMO approved amendments to Annex VI to cut the carbon intensity of existing ships. The amendments will require ships to combine a technical and an operational approach to reduce their carbon intensity, in line with the ambition of the Initial IMO GHG Strategy, which aims to reduce carbon intensity of international shipping by 40% by 2030, compared to 2008. The amendments include (1) a technical requirement to reduce carbon intensity based on a new Energy Efficiency Existing Ship Index ("EEXI"), and (2) operational carbon intensity reduction requirements, based on a new operational carbon intensity indicator ("CII"). These amendments are expected to enter into force on November 1, 2022, with the requirements for EEXI and CII certification coming into effect from January 1, 2023. The Company has evaluated the impact of EEXI requirements and determined that the majority of our fleet will be minimally impacted with some of the oldest ships requiring the application of an engine power limitation that may reduce operational top speed. The Company is working with Class and Flag to

complete the EEXI certification of all vessels in advance of the requirement coming into effect. EEXI requirements will ultimately lead the oldest ships in the drybulk fleet to slow down significantly which will limit drybulk supply and could positively impact rates. The Company is evaluating the impact of CII requirements on the fleet and sees limited impact through 2025 after which the annual CII requirements become incrementally stricter each year. The most immediate impact of CII requirements coming into effect will likely be the need for collaboration between the Company and Charterers to actively manage CII scoring.

Any passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the IMO, the EU, the U.S. or other countries where we operate, or any treaty adopted at the international level to succeed the Kyoto Protocol or Paris Agreement, that restricts emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to make significant financial expenditures which we cannot predict with certainty at this time. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Even in the absence of climate control legislation, our business may be indirectly affected to the extent that climate change may result in sea level changes or more intense weather events such as those which may present a risk of damage or loss to our vessels.

International Labour Organization

The ILO is a specialized agency of the UN with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. The ILO has adopted the Maritime Labor Convention 2006 (the "MLC 2006"). A Maritime Labor Certificate and a Declaration of Maritime Labor Compliance will be required to ensure compliance with the MLC 2006 for all ships above 500 gross tons in international trade. All of our vessels are compliant with the MLC 2006 and we intend to maintain them accordingly.

Vessel Security Regulations

Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security such as the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 ("MTSA"). To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the USCG issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. The regulations also impose requirements on certain ports and facilities, some of which are regulated by the EPA. We have implemented measures to comply with the requirements when calling at U.S. ports.

Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to SOLAS created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new Chapter V became effective in July 2004 and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, and mandates compliance with the International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code ("ISPS Code"). The ISPS Code is designed to enhance the security of ports and ships against terrorism. Amendments to SOLAS Chapter VII, made mandatory in 2004, apply to vessels transporting dangerous goods and require those vessels be in compliance with the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code. To trade internationally, a vessel must attain an International Ship Security Certificate ("ISSC") from a recognized security organization approved by the vessel's flag state. Among the various requirements are:

•On-board installation of automatic identification systems to provide a means for the automatic transmission of safety-related information from among similarly equipped ships and shore stations, including information on a ship's identity, position, course, speed and navigational status;

•On board installation of ship security alert systems, which do not sound on the vessel but only alert the authorities on shore; the development of vessel security plans;

•Ship identification number to be permanently marked on a vessel's hull;

•A continuous synopsis record kept onboard showing a vessel's history including the name of the ship, the state whose flag the ship is entitled to fly, the date on which the ship was registered with that state, the ship's identification number, the port at which the ship is registered and the name of the registered owner(s) and their registered address; and

•Compliance with flag state security certification requirements.

Ships operating without a valid certificate may be detained at port until it obtains an ISSC, or it may be expelled from port, or refused entry at port.

Furthermore, additional security measures could be required in the future which could have a significant financial impact on us. The USCG regulations, intended to be aligned with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. vessels from MTSA vessel security measures, provided such vessels have on board a valid ISSC that attests to the vessel's compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. Our vessels have a valid ISSC and it is our intent to maintain such certificates. We have implemented the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code.

Financial Regulations

Our business operations in countries outside the United States are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the FCPA, as well as economic sanctions and trade embargoes administered by Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"). The FCPA prohibits bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. OFAC administers and enforces economic sanctions and trade embargoes based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals.

In November 2015, the Company filed a voluntary self-disclosure report with OFAC regarding certain apparent violations of U.S. sanctions regulations in the provision of shipping services for third party charterers with respect to the transportation of cargo to or from Myanmar (formerly Burma). The Company had a different senior management team at the time of the apparent violations which occurred between 2011 and 2014. The Company's new senior management and new Board of Directors self-reported the apparent violation and cooperated fully with OFAC's investigation and has since implemented robust remedial measures and significantly enhanced its compliance safeguards.

On January 23, 2020, Eagle Shipping International (USA) LLC ("ESI"), a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a settlement agreement with OFAC in which ESI agreed to make a one-time payment to the U.S. Department of the Treasury in the amount of $1.125 million and undertake certain compliance commitments in exchange for OFAC agreeing to release and forever discharge the Company and its subsidiaries, including ESI, without any finding of fault, from any and all civil liability in connection with the apparent violations. The settlement does not constitute an admission of fault or wrongdoing by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Inspection by Classification Societies

Every ocean-going vessel must be inspected and certified by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the vessel is "in class," signifying that the vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification society and complies with applicable rules and regulations of the vessel's country of registry and the international conventions of which that country is a member. In addition, where surveys are required by international conventions and corresponding laws and ordinances of a flag state, the classification society will undertake them on application or by official order, acting on behalf of the authorities concerned.

The classification society also undertakes on request other surveys and checks that are required by regulations and requirements of the flag state. These surveys are subject to agreements made in each individual case and/or to the regulations of the country concerned.

For maintenance of the class certification, regular and extraordinary surveys of hull, machinery, including the electrical plant, and any special equipment classed are required to be performed as follows:

•Annual Surveys.For ocean-going ships, annual surveys are conducted for the hull and the machinery, including the electrical plant, and where applicable for special equipment classed, within three months before or after each anniversary date of the date of commencement of the class period indicated in the certificate.

•Intermediate Surveys.Intermediate surveys typically are required two and one-half years after the vessel is commissioned, and thereafter at five year intervals. The first three intermediate surveys may be conducted while the vessel remains in the water, and thereafter the vessel must be dry-docked for each Intermediate Survey.

•Class Renewal Surveys.Class renewal surveys, also known as special surveys, are carried out for the ship's hull, machinery, including the electrical plant and for any special equipment classed, at the intervals indicated by the character of classification for the hull. At the special survey the vessel is thoroughly examined, including audio-gauging to determine the thickness of the steel structures. Should the thickness be found to be less than class requirements, the classification society would prescribe steel renewals. The classification society may grant a one year grace period for completion of the special survey. Substantial amounts of money may have to be spent for steel renewals to pass a special survey if the vessel experiences excessive wear and tear. In lieu of the special survey approximately every five years, depending on whether a grace period was granted, a shipowner has the option of arranging with the classification society for the vessel's hull or machinery to be on a continuous survey cycle, in which every part of the vessel would be surveyed within a five year cycle. At an owner's application, the surveys required for class renewal may be split according to an agreed schedule to extend over the entire period of class. This process is referred to as continuous class renewal.

All areas subject to survey as defined by the classification society are required to be surveyed at least once per class period, unless shorter intervals between surveys are prescribed elsewhere. The period between two subsequent surveys of each area must not exceed five years.

Most vessels are also drydocked every 30 to 60 months for inspection of the underwater parts and for repairs related to inspections. If any defects are found, the classification surveyor will issue a "recommendation" which must be rectified by the shipowner within prescribed time limits.

Most insurance underwriters make it a condition for insurance coverage that a vessel be certified as "in class" by a classification society which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies (the "IACS"). In December 2013, the IACS adopted new harmonized Common Structure Rules, which apply to bulk carriers constructed on or after July 1, 2015. All our vessels must be certified as being "in class" prior to their delivery under our standard purchase contracts and memorandum of agreement. If the vessel is not class certified on the date of closing, we have no obligation to take delivery of the vessel. We have all of our vessels and intend to have all vessels that we acquire in the future, classed by IACS members.

Risk of Loss and Liability Insurance

General

The operation of any drybulk vessel includes risks such as mechanical failure, collision, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. In addition, there is always an inherent possibility of a marine casualty, including oil spills (e.g. fuel oil) and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. OPA, which imposes liability upon owners, operators and demise charterers of vessels trading in the United States exclusive economic zone for certain oil pollution accidents in the United States, has made liability insurance more expensive for shipowners and operators trading in the U.S. market.

While we maintain hull and machinery insurance, loss of hire insurance, war risks insurance, protection and indemnity cover and freight, demurrage and defense cover for our owned fleet in amounts that we believe to be prudent to cover normal risks in our operations, we may not be able to achieve or maintain this level of coverage throughout a vessel's useful life. Furthermore, while we believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate, not all risks can be insured, and there can be no guarantee that any specific claim will be paid, or that we will always be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates.

Hull & Machinery and War Risks Insurance

We maintain marine hull, machinery and war risks insurances, which cover the risk of damage or actual or constructive total loss for all of our vessels. Our vessels are each covered up to at least their fair market value with a deductible of $100,000 per vessel per incident.

Protection and Indemnity Insurance Coverage

Protection and Indemnity Insurance is a form of mutual indemnity insurance provided by protection and indemnity associations ("P&I Associations"), which insure our third-party liabilities in connection with our shipping activities. This includes third-party liability and other related expenses resulting from the injury, illness or death of crew, passengers and other third parties, the loss or damage to cargo, claims arising from collisions with other vessels, damage to other third-party property, pollution, and other related costs, including wreck removal. Subject to the "capping" discussed below except for pollution is unlimited.

Our current Protection and Indemnity Insurance coverage for pollution is $1.0 billion per vessel per incident.The 13 P&I Associations that comprise the International Group of P&I Association insure approximately 90% of the world's commercial tonnage and have entered into a pooling agreement to reinsure each association's liabilities. As a member of a P&I Association which is a member of the International Group, we are subject to calls payable to the associations based on the Company's claim records as well as the claim records of all other members of the individual associations and members of the pool of P&I Associations comprising the International Group.

Competition

We compete with a large number of international drybulk owners. Theinternational shipping industry is highly competitive and fragmented with no single owner accounting for more than 2.6% of the on-the-water drybulk fleet, measured by vessel count. As of December 31, 2021, there are approximately 12,700 drybulk vessels over 10,000 dwt totaling approximately 945 million dwt. We compete with other owners of drybulk vessels, primarily in the Supramax/Ultramax segment and (to a lesser extent) the Handysize and Panamax segments. Many of our competitors are privately-held companies.

Competition in the shipping industry varies according to the nature of the contractual relationship as well as the specific commodity being shipped. Our business will fluctuate as a result of changes in the supply and demand for drybulk commodities and also the main patterns of trade in these commodities.Competition in virtually all bulk trades is intense and based primarily on supply of ships and demand for our ocean transportation services. We compete for charters on the basis of price, vessel location, size, age and condition of the vessel, as well as on our reputation as an owner and operator. Increasingly, major customers are demonstrating a preference for modern vessels based on concerns about the environmental and operational risks associated with older vessels. Consequently, we believe owners of large modern fleets have gained a competitive advantage over owners of older fleets.

Seasonality

Demand for vessel capacity has historically exhibited seasonal variations with corresponding fluctuations in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results for our vessels trading in the spot market. The drybulk market is typically stronger in the fall (due to both increased North American grain shipments and higher coal purchases for heating fuel ahead of the cold winter months) and spring (due to increased South American grain shipments). In addition, unpredictable weather patterns may disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities.

Value of Assets and Cash Requirements

The replacement costs of comparable new vessels may be above or below the book value of our fleet. The market value of our fleet may be below book value when market conditions are weak and exceed book value when markets are strong. In common with other shipowners, we may consider asset redeployment which at times may include the sale of vessels at less than their book value.

Exchange Controls

Under Marshall Islands law, there are currently no restrictions on the export or import of capital, including foreign exchange controls or restrictions that affect the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of our common stock.

Tax Considerations

The following is a discussion of the material Marshall Islands and United States federal income tax considerations relevant to owning common stock by a United States Holder or a Non-United States Holder, (each as defined below). This discussion does not purport to deal with the tax consequences of owning the common stock to all categories of investors, some of which (such as financial institutions, regulated investment companies, real estate investment trusts, tax-exempt organizations, insurance companies, persons holding our common stock as part of a hedging, integrated, conversion or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that have elected the mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities, persons liable for alternative minimum tax, persons who are investors in pass-through entities, dealers in securities or currencies, persons required to recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than when such income is reported on an "applicable financial statement," persons subject to the "base erosion and anti-avoidance" tax, persons who own, directly or constructively, 10% or more of our common stock and investors whose functional currency is not the United States dollar) may be subject to special rules. This discussion deals only with holders who own common stock as a capital asset. Shareholders are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences arising in their own particular situation under United States federal, state, local or foreign law of the ownership of our common stock.

Marshall Islands Tax Considerations

In the opinion of Seward & Kissel LLP, the following are the material Marshall Islands tax consequences of our activities to us and shareholders of our common stock. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands. Under current Marshall Islands law, we are not subject to tax on income or capital gains, and no Marshall Islands withholding tax will be imposed upon payments of dividends by us to our shareholders.

United States Federal Income Tax Considerations

In the opinion of Seward & Kissel LLP, our United States tax counsel, the following are the material United States federal income tax consequences to us of our activities and to United States Holders and to Non-United States Holders of our common stock. The following discussion of United States federal income tax matters is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, judicial decisions, administrative pronouncements, and existing and proposed regulations issued by the United States Department of the Treasury, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. In addition, the discussion below is based, in part, on the description of our business as described in Item 1. Business in this Annual Report and assumes that we conduct our business as described in that section.

We have made, or will make, special United States federal income tax elections in respect of each of our ship owning or operating subsidiaries that is potentially subject to tax as a result of deriving income attributable to the transportation of cargoes to or from the United States. The effect of the special U.S. tax elections is to ignore or disregard the subsidiaries for which elections have been made as separate taxable entities and to treat them as part of their parent, the ''Company.'' Therefore, for purposes of the following discussion, the Company, and not the

subsidiaries subject to this special election, will be treated as the owner and operator of the vessels and as receiving the income therefrom.

United States Federal Income Taxation of Our Company

Taxation of Operating Income: In General

The Company currently earns, and anticipates that it will continue to earn, substantially all its income from the hiring or leasing of vessels for use on a time or voyage charter basis or from the performance of services directly related to those uses, all of which we refer to as ''shipping income.''

Unless exempt from United States federal income taxation under the rules of Section 883 of the Code ("Section 883"), as discussed below, a foreign corporation such as Eagle will be subject to United States federal income taxation on its ''shipping income'' that is treated as derived from sources within the United States, to which we refer as ''United States source shipping income.'' For tax purposes, ''United States source shipping income'' includes 50% of shipping income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States.

Shipping income attributable to transportation exclusively between non-United States ports will be considered to be 100% derived from sources outside the United States. Shipping income derived from sources outside the United States will not be subject to any United States federal income tax.

Shipping income attributable to transportation exclusively between United States ports is considered to be 100% derived from United States sources. However, the Company is not permitted by United States law to engage in the transportation of cargoes that produces 100% United States source income.

Unless exempt from tax under Section 883, the Company's gross United States source shipping income would be subject to a 4% tax imposed without allowance for deductions as described below.

Exemption of Operating Income from United States Federal Income Taxation

Under Section 883 and the regulations thereunder, a foreign corporation will be exempt from United States federal income taxation on its United States source shipping income if:

•it is organized in a qualified foreign country, which is one that grants an ''equivalent exemption'' from tax to corporations organized in the United States in respect of each category of shipping income for which exemption is being claimed under Section 883 and to which we refer as the ''Country of Organization Test''; and

•one of the following tests is met:

◦more than 50% of the value of its shares is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by qualified shareholders, which as defined includes individuals who are ''residents'' of a qualified foreign country, to which we refer as the ''50% Ownership Test'';

◦subject to an exception for closely-held corporations, its shares are ''primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market'' in a qualified foreign country or in the United States, to which we refer as the "Publicly-Traded Test"; or

◦it is a ''controlled foreign corporation'' and satisfies an ownership test, to which, collectively, we refer to as the ''CFC Test.''

The Republic of the Marshall Islands, the jurisdiction where the Company is incorporated, has been officially recognized by the United States Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") as a qualified foreign country that grants the

requisite ''equivalent exemption'' from tax in respect of each category of shipping income the Company earns and currently expects to earn in the future. Therefore, the Company will be exempt from United States federal income taxation with respect to its United States source shipping income if it satisfies any one of the 50% Ownership Test, the Publicly-Traded Test, or the CFC Test.

For our 2021 taxable year, we believe that we satisfy the Publicly-Traded Test, as discussed in more detail below. The Company does not currently anticipate a circumstance under which it would be able to satisfy the 50% Ownership Test or the CFC Test.

Publicly-Traded Test

The regulations under Section 883 provide, in pertinent part, that shares of a foreign corporation will be considered to be ''primarily traded'' on an established securities market in a country if the number of shares of each class of shares that are traded during any taxable year on all established securities markets in that country exceeds the number of shares in each such class that are traded during that year on established securities markets in any other single country. The Company's common stock, which is its sole class of issued and outstanding shares, are ''primarily traded'' on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Under the regulations, the Company's common stock will be considered to be ''regularly traded'' on an established securities market if one or more classes of its shares representing more than 50% of its outstanding shares, by both total combined voting power of all classes of shares entitled to vote and total value, are listed on such market, to which we refer as the ''listing threshold.'' Since our common stock, which is our sole class of issued and outstanding shares, is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we believe that we satisfy the listing threshold.

It is further required that with respect to each class of shares relied upon to meet the listing threshold, (i) such class of shares is traded on the market, other than in minimal quantities, on at least 60 days during the taxable year or one-sixth of the days in a short taxable year; and (ii) the aggregate number of shares of such class of shares traded on such market during the taxable year is at least 10% of the average number of shares of such class of shares outstanding during such year or as appropriately adjusted in the case of a short taxable year. We believe the Company will satisfy the trading frequency and trading volume tests. Even if this were not the case, the regulations provide that the trading frequency and trading volume tests will be deemed satisfied if, as is the case with the Company's common stock, such class of shares is traded on an established market in the United States and such shares are regularly quoted by dealers making a market in such shares.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the regulations provide, in pertinent part, that a class of shares will not be considered to be ''regularly traded'' on an established securities market for any taxable year in which 50% or more of the vote and value of the outstanding shares of such class are owned, actually or constructively under specified share attribution rules, on more than half the days during the taxable year by persons who each own 5% or more of the vote and value of such class of outstanding shares, to which we refer as the ''5 Percent Override Rule.''

For purposes of being able to determine the persons who actually or constructively own 5% or more of the vote and value of the Company's common stock ("5% Shareholders"), the regulations permit the Company to rely on those persons that are identified on Schedule 13G and Schedule 13D filings with the SEC, as owning 5% or more of the Company's common stock. The regulations further provide that an investment company which is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, will not be treated as a 5% Shareholder for such purposes.

In the event the 5 Percent Override Rule is triggered, the regulations provide that the 5 Percent Override Rule will nevertheless not apply if the Company can establish that within the group of 5% Shareholders, there are sufficient qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified shareholders in such group from owning 50% or more of the Company's common stock for more than half the number of days during the taxable year, which we refer to as the ''5 Percent Override Exception.''

Based on the ownership and trading of our stock in 2021, we believe that we satisfied the publicly traded test and qualified for the Section 883 exemption in 2021. Even if we do qualify for the Section 883 exemption in 2021, there

can be no assurance that changes and shifts in the ownership of our stock by 5% shareholders will not preclude us from qualifying for the Section 883 exemption in future taxable years.

Taxation in Absence of Section 883 Exemption

If the benefits of Section 883 are unavailable, the Company's United States source shipping income would be subject to a 4% tax imposed by Section 887 of the Code on a gross basis, without the benefit of deductions, to the extent that such income is not considered to be ''effectively connected'' with the conduct of a United States trade or business, as described below. Since under the sourcing rules described above, no more than 50% of the Company's shipping income would be treated as being United States source shipping income, the maximum effective rate of United States federal income tax on our shipping income would never exceed 2% under the 4% gross basis tax regime. Based on the current operation of our vessels, if we were subject to 4% gross basis tax, our United States federal income tax liability would be approximately $2.7 million and $1.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. However, we can give no assurance that the operation of our vessels, which are under the control of third party charterers, will not change such that our United States federal income tax liability would be substantially higher.

To the extent the Company's United States source shipping income is considered to be ''effectively connected'' with the conduct of a United States trade or business, as described below, any such ''effectively connected'' United States source shipping income, net of applicable deductions, would be subject to United States federal income tax, currently imposed at a rate of 21%. In addition, the Company may be subject to the 30% ''branch profits'' tax on earnings effectively connected with the conduct of such trade or business, as determined after allowance for certain adjustments, and on certain interest paid or deemed paid attributable to the conduct of the Company's United States trade or business.

The Company's United States source shipping income would be considered ''effectively connected'' with the conduct of a United States trade or business only if:

•the Company has, or is considered to have, a fixed place of business in the United States involved in the earning of United States source shipping income; and

•substantially all of the Company's United States source shipping income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, such as the operation of a vessel that follows a published schedule with repeated sailings at regular intervals between the same points for voyages that begin or end in the United States.

United States Taxation of Gain on Sale of Vessels

Assuming that any decision on a vessel sale is made from and attributable to the United States office of the Company, as we believe likely to be the case as the Company is currently structured, then any gain derived from the sale of any such vessel will be treated as derived from United States sources and subject to United States federal income tax as ''effectively connected'' income (determined under rules different from those discussed above) under the above described net income tax regime. If the Company were to qualify for exemption from tax under Section 883 in respect of the shipping income derived from the international operation of its vessels, then gain from the sale of any such vessel should likewise be exempt from tax under Section 883.

United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders

As used herein, the term "United States Holder" means a beneficial owner of our common stock that is an individual United States citizen or resident, a United States corporation or other United States entity taxable as a corporation, an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source, or a trust if (i) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary jurisdiction over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) it has in place an election to be treated as a United States person for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

If a partnership holds our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend upon the status of the partner and upon the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner in a partnership holding our common stock, you are encouraged to consult your tax advisor.

Distributions

Subject to the discussion of passive foreign investment companies below, any distributions made by the Company with respect to its common stock to a United States Holder will generally constitute dividends to the extent of the Company's current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined under United States federal income tax principles. Distributions in excess of such earnings and profits will be treated first as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the United States Holder's tax basis in his common stock on a dollar-for-dollar basis and thereafter as capital gain. Because the Company is not a United States corporation, United States Holders that are corporations will not be entitled to claim a dividend received deduction with respect to any distributions they receive from us. Dividends paid with respect to the Company's common stock will generally be treated as ''passive category income'' for purposes of computing allowable foreign tax credits for United States foreign tax credit purposes.

Dividends paid on the Company's common stock to a United States Holder who is an individual, trust or estate (a ''United States Non-Corporate Holder'') will generally be treated as ''qualified dividend income'' that is taxable to such United States Non-Corporate Holder at preferential tax rates provided that (1) the common stock is readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States (such as the Nasdaq Global Select Market on which the Company's common stock is traded); (2) the Company is not a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year during which the dividend is paid or the immediately preceding taxable year (which we do not believe we have been, are or will be); (3) the United States Non-Corporate Holder has owned the common stock for more than 60 days in the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the date on which the common stock becomes ex-dividend; and (4) the United States Non-Corporate Holder is not under an obligation to make related payments with respect to positions in substantially similar or related property.

There is no assurance that any dividends paid on the Company's common stock will be eligible for these preferential rates in the hands of a United States Non-Corporate Holder, although we believe that they will be so eligible. Any dividends out of earnings, and profits the Company pays, which are not eligible for these preferential rates will be taxed as ordinary income to a United States Non-Corporate Holder.

Special rules may apply to any ''extraordinary dividend''-generally, a dividend in an amount which is equal to or in excess of 10% of a shareholder's adjusted basis in a common share-paid by the Company. If the Company pays an ''extraordinary dividend'' on its common stock that is treated as ''qualified dividend income,'' then any loss derived by a United States Non-Corporate Holder from the sale or exchange of such common stock will be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent of such dividend.

Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Common Stock

Assuming the Company does not constitute a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, a United States Holder generally will recognize taxable gain or loss upon a sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized by the United States Holder from such sale, exchange or other disposition and the United States Holder's tax basis in such stock. Such gain or loss will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the United States Holder's holding period is greater than one year at the time of the sale, exchange or other disposition. Such capital gain or loss will generally be treated as United States source income or loss, as applicable, for United States foreign tax credit purposes. Long-term capital gains of United States Non-Corporate Holders are currently eligible for reduced rates of taxation. A United States Holder's ability to deduct capital losses is subject to certain limitations.

Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences

Special United States federal income tax rules apply to a United States Holder that holds shares in a foreign corporation classified as a "passive foreign investment company" for United States federal income tax purposes. In

general, the Company will be treated as a passive foreign investment company with respect to a United States Holder if, for any taxable year in which such holder holds the Company's common stock, either:

•at least 75% of our gross income for such taxable year consists of passive income (e.g., dividends, interest, capital gains and rents derived other than in the active conduct of a rental business); or

•at least 50% of the average value of our assets during such taxable year produce, or are held for the production of, passive income

Income earned, or deemed earned, by the Company in connection with the performance of services would not constitute passive income. By contrast, rental income would generally constitute ''passive income'' unless the Company was treated under specific rules as deriving its rental income in the active conduct of a trade or business.

Based on the Company's current operations and future projections, we do not believe that the Company has been or is, nor do we expect the Company to become, a passive foreign investment company with respect to any taxable year. Although there is no legal authority directly on point, our belief is based principally on the position that, for purposes of determining whether the Company is a passive foreign investment company, the gross income it derives from its time chartering and voyage chartering activities should constitute services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, such income should not constitute passive income, and the assets that the Company owns and operates in connection with the production of such income, in particular, the vessels, should not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether the Company is a passive foreign investment company.

We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and IRS pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. In addition, we have obtained an opinion from our counsel, Seward & Kissel LLP, that, based upon the Company's operations as described herein, its income from time charters and voyage charters should not be treated as passive income for purposes of determining whether it is a passive foreign investment company. However, in the absence of any legal authority specifically relating to the statutory provisions governing passive foreign investment companies, the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS or a court could disagree with our position. In addition, although the Company intends to conduct its affairs in a manner to avoid being classified as a passive foreign investment company with respect to any taxable year, we cannot assure you that the nature of its operations will not change in the future.

As discussed more fully below, if the Company were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, a United States Holder would be subject to different taxation rules depending on whether the United States Holder makes an election to treat the Company as a ''Qualified Electing Fund,'' which election we refer to as a ''QEF election.'' As an alternative to making a QEF election, a United States Holder should be able to make a ''mark-to-market'' election with respect to the Company's common stock, as discussed below. In addition, if we were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company, a United States holder would be required to file an annual report with the IRS for that year with respect to such holder's common stock.

Taxation of United States Holders Making a Timely QEF Election

If a United States Holder makes a timely QEF election, which United States Holder we refer to as an ''Electing Holder,'' the Electing Holder must report for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the Company's ordinary earnings and net capital gain, if any, for each taxable year of the Company for which it is a passive foreign investment company that ends with or within the taxable year of the Electing Holder, regardless of whether or not distributions were received from the Company by the Electing Holder. No portion of any such inclusions of ordinary earnings will be treated as ''qualified dividend income.'' Net capital gain inclusions of United States Non-Corporate Holders would be eligible for preferential capital gains tax rates. The Electing Holder's adjusted tax basis in the common stock will be increased to reflect taxed but undistributed earnings and profits. Distributions of earnings and profits that had been previously taxed will result in a corresponding reduction in the adjusted tax basis in the common stock and will not be taxed again once distributed. An Electing Holder would not,

however, be entitled to a deduction for its pro rata share of any losses that the Company incurs with respect to any year. An Electing Holder would generally recognize capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock. A United States Holder would make a timely QEF election for shares of the Company by filing one copy of IRS Form 8621 with his United States federal income tax return for the first year in which he held such shares when the Company was a passive foreign investment company. If the Company were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, the Company would provide each United States Holder with all necessary information in order to make the QEF election described above.

Taxation of United States Holders Making a ''Mark-to-Market'' Election

Alternatively, if the Company were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year and, as we anticipate, its shares are treated as "marketable stock", a United States Holder would be allowed to make a ''mark-to-market'' election with respect to the Company's common stock, provided the United States Holder completes and files IRS Form 8621 in accordance with the relevant instructions and related Treasury regulations. If that election is made, the United States Holder generally would include as ordinary income in each taxable year the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the common stock at the end of the taxable year over such holder's adjusted tax basis in the common stock. The United States Holder would also be permitted an ordinary loss in respect of the excess, if any, of the United States Holder's adjusted tax basis in the common stock over its fair market value at the end of the taxable year, but only to the extent of the net amount previously included in income as a result of the mark-to-market election. A United States Holder's tax basis in his common stock would be adjusted to reflect any such income or loss amount. Gain realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock would be treated as ordinary income, and any loss realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock would be treated as ordinary loss to the extent that such loss does not exceed the net mark-to-market gains previously included by the United States Holder. No income inclusions under this election will be treated as "qualified dividend income."

Taxation of United States Holders Not Making a Timely QEF or Mark-to-Market Election

Finally, if the Company were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, a United States Holder who does not make either a QEF election or a "mark-to-market" election for that year, whom we refer to as a "Non-Electing Holder" would be subject to special rules with respect to (1) any excess distribution (i.e., the portion of any distributions received by the Non-Electing Holder on the common stock in a taxable year in excess of 125% of the average annual distributions received by the Non-Electing Holder in the three preceding taxable years, or, if shorter, the Non-Electing Holder's holding period for the common stock), and (2) any gain realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock. Under these special rules:

•the excess distribution or gain would be allocated ratably over the Non-Electing Holder's aggregate holding period for the common stock;

•the amount allocated to the current taxable year, and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which the Company was a passive foreign investment company, would be taxed as ordinary income and would not be "qualified dividend income"; and

•the amount allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest rate of tax in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year, and an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit would be imposed with respect to the resulting tax attributable to each such other taxable year.

These special rules would not apply to a qualified pension, profit sharing or other retirement trust or other tax-exempt organization that did not borrow money or otherwise utilize leverage in connection with its acquisition of the Company's common stock. If the Company is a passive foreign investment company and a Non-Electing Holder who is an individual dies while owning the Company's common stock, such holder's successor generally would not receive a step-up in tax basis with respect to such shares.

United States Federal Income Taxation of"Non-United States Holders"

A beneficial owner of common stock (other than a partnership) that is not a United States Holder is referred to herein as a "Non-United States Holder".

If a partnership holds our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend upon the status of the partner and upon the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner in a partnership holding our common stock, you are encouraged to consult your tax advisor.

Dividends on Common Stock

Non-United States Holders generally will not be subject to United States federal income tax or withholding tax on dividends received from the Company with respect to its common stock, unless that income is effectively connected with the Non-United States Holder's conduct of a trade or business in the United States. If the Non-United States Holder is entitled to the benefits of a United States income tax treaty with respect to those dividends, that income is taxable only if it is attributable to a permanent establishment maintained by the Non-United States Holder in the United States.

Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Common Stock

Non-United States Holders generally will not be subject to United States federal income tax or withholding tax on any gain realized upon the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock, unless:

•The gain is effectively connected with the Non-United States Holder's conduct of a trade or business in the United States (and, if the Non-United States holder is entitled to the benefits of an income tax treaty with respect to that gain, that gain is attributable to a permanent establishment maintained by the Non-United States holder in the United States); or

•The Non-United States Holder is an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year of disposition and other conditions are met.

If the Non-United States Holder is engaged in a United States trade or business for United States federal income tax purposes, the income from the common stock, including dividends and the gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of the shares, that is effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business will generally be subject to regular United States federal income tax in the same manner as discussed in the previous section relating to the taxation of United States Holders. In addition, if you are a corporate Non-United States Holder, your earnings and profits that are attributable to the effectively connected income, which are subject to certain adjustments, may be subject to an additional branch profits tax at a rate of 30%, or at a lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty.

Backup Withholding and Information Reporting

In general, dividend payments, or other taxable distributions, made within the United States to you will be subject to information reporting requirements if you are a non-corporate United States Holder. Such payments or distributions may also be subject to backup withholding tax if you are a non-corporate United States Holder and you:

•Fail to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number;

•Are notified by the IRS that you have failed to report all interest or dividends required to be shown on your federal income tax returns; or

•In certain circumstances, fail to comply with applicable certification requirements.

Non-United States Holders may be required to establish their exemption from information reporting and backup withholding by certifying their status on an appropriate IRS Form W-8.

If you are a Non-United States Holder and you sell your common stock to or through a United States office of a broker, the payment of the proceeds is subject to both United States backup withholding and information reporting unless you certify that you are a non-United States person, under penalties of perjury, or you otherwise establish an exemption. If you sell your common stock through a non-United States office of a non-United States broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United States, then information reporting and backup withholding generally will not apply to that payment. However, United States information reporting requirements, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that payment is made to you outside the United States, if you sell your common stock through a non-United States office of a broker that is a United States person or has some other contacts with the United States. Such information reporting requirements will not apply, however, if the broker has documentary evidence in its records that you are a non-United States person and certain other conditions are met, or you otherwise establish an exemption.

Backup withholding tax is not an additional tax. Rather, you generally may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under backup withholding rules that exceed your income tax liability by filing a refund claim with the IRS.

Individuals who are United States Holders (and to the extent specified in applicable Treasury regulations, certain United States entities and Non-United States Holders) who hold "specified foreign financial assets" (as defined in Section 6038D of the Code) are required to file IRS Form 8938 with information relating to the asset for each taxable year in which the aggregate value of all such assets exceeds $75,000 at any time during the taxable year or $50,000 on the last day of the taxable year (or such higher dollar amount as prescribed by applicable Treasury regulations). Specified foreign financial assets would include, among other assets, our common shares, unless the shares are held through an account maintained with a United States financial institution. Substantial penalties apply to any failure to timely file IRS Form 8938, unless the failure is shown to be due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. Additionally, in the event an individual United States Holder (and to the extent specified in applicable Treasury regulations, a United States entity and Non-United States Holders) that is required to file IRS Form 8938 does not file such form, the statute of limitations on the assessment and collection of United States federal income taxes of such holder for the related tax year may not close until three years after the date that the required information is filed. United States Holders (including United States entities) and Non-United States Holders are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors regarding their reporting obligations under this legislation.

Glossary of Shipping Terms

The following are definitions of shipping terms used in this Form 10-K.

Annual Survey- The inspection of a vessel by a classification society, on behalf of a flag state, that takes place every year.

Ballast Water Treatment System or BWTS- A system used to prevent the spread of harmful aquatic organisms from one region to another by minimizing the uptake and/or discharge of sediments and organisms in the water that ships use as ballast to maintain stability. These systems are required on all ships, according to a timetable of implementation, in accordance with the BWM Convention discussed in the Pollution Control and Liability Requirements section above.

Baltic Exchange-Based in London, the Baltic Exchange is a market for the trading and settlement of physical and derivative contracts. The exchange also publishes daily freight market prices and maritime shipping cost indices, including Baltic Dry Index and segment indices for Capesize, Panamax, Supramax, and Handysize bulk carriers.

Baltic Supramax Index or BSI-The BSI is an index published by the Baltic Exchange which tracks the gross time charter spot value for a Supramax vessel. Initiated in 2005, the BSI was originally based on a 52,000 dwt ship of standard design and 6 trade routes across the world. As a result of a trend toward larger ship sizes and changes to trade patterns, this version of the index was discontinued as of January 31, 2019. The updated BSI is now based on a 58,000 dwt, non-scrubber fitted Supramax and 10 trade routes across the world.

Bareboat Charter-Also known as "demise charter." Contract or hire of a ship under which the shipowner is usually paid a fixed amount of charter hire rate for a certain period of time during which the charterer is responsible for the operating costs and voyage costs of the vessel as well as arranging for crewing. Such owner is known as the bareboat charterer or the demise charterer.

Bulk Vessels/Carriers-Vessels which are specially designed and built to carry large volumes of cargo in bulk cargo form.

Bunkers-Fuel oil used to power a vessel's engines. The name is derived from the bins used to store coal onboard when ships were powered by coal. There are three main fuel types currently used on commercial cargo ships. First, High Sulfur Fuel Oil ("HSFO") is a residual fuel with maximum sulfur content of 3.5%. This was the primary fuel used by commercial shipping prior to implementation of the IMO2020 sulfur regulation and continues to be used by scrubber-fitted ships. Second, Very Low Sulfur Fuel Oil ("VLSFO") is a fuel with maximum sulfur content of 0.5% and is the primary fuel used by non-scrubber fitted ships starting January 1, 2020. Third, Marine Gas Oil ("MGO") is a distillate product similar to diesel fuel and has a maximum sulfur content of 0.1%. This fuel type is primarily used in ECA zones.

Capesize-A drybulk carrier in excess of 100,000 dwt.

Charter- The hire of a vessel for a specified period of time or to carry a cargo for a fixed fee from a loading port to a discharging port. The contract for a charter is called a charter party.

Charterer- The individual or company hiring a vessel.

Charter Hire Rate- A sum of money paid to the vessel owner by a charterer under a time charter party for the use of a vessel.

Classification Society-An independent organization which certifies that a vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of such organization and complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of such vessel and the international conventions of which that country is a member.

Deadweight Ton or "dwt"-A unit of a vessel's capacity for cargo, fuel oil, stores and crew, measured in metric tons of 1,000 kilograms. A vessel's dwt or total deadweight is the maximum total weight the vessel can carry when loaded to a particular load line.

Demurrage-Additional revenue paid to the shipowner on its Voyage Charters for delays experienced in loading and/or unloading cargo that are not deemed to be the responsibility of the shipowner, calculated in accordance with specific Charter terms.

Despatch-The amount payable by the shipowner if the vessel completes loading or discharging before the allowed loading/unloading time has expired, calculated in accordance with specific charter terms.

Drybulk-Non-liquid cargoes of commodities shipped in an unpackaged state.

Drydocking-The removal of a vessel from the water for inspection and/or repair of submerged parts.

Emission Control Area or "ECA"-Designated sea areas in which stricter airborne emissions controls are in place. As of early 2020, there are four ECA zones in place that cover the Baltic Sea, North Sea, and most of the coastline of U.S., Canada, and U.S. Caribbean territory. Ships operating within these zones have a maximum sulfur emissions limit of 0.1%.

Gross Ton-Unit of 100 cubic feet or 2.831 cubic meters used in arriving at the calculation of gross tonnage.

Handysize-A drybulk carrier having a carrying capacity of up to approximately 40,000 dwt.

Hull-The shell or body of a vessel.

International Maritime Organization or "IMO"-A UN agency that issues international trade standards for shipping.

Intermediate Survey-The inspection of a vessel by a classification society surveyor which takes place between two and three years before and after each Special Survey for such vessel pursuant to the rules of international conventions and classification societies.

ISM Code-The International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, as adopted by the IMO.

Metric Ton-A ton, unit of measurement equal to 1,000 kilograms.

Light Weight Ton ("lwt")-The actual weight of the ship with no fuel, passengers, cargo, water or stores on board.

Newbuilding-A newly constructed vessel.

OPA-The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (as amended).

Orderbook-A reference to currently placed orders for the construction of vessels (e.g., the Panamax orderbook).

Panamax-A drybulk carrier of approximately 65,000 to 100,000 dwt of maximum length, depth and draft capable of passing fully loaded through the Panama Canal. Ships of this size may occasionally be equipped with onboard cargo handling equipment, but typically do not and must rely on shore-based equipment to load and unload.

Protection and Indemnity Insurance-Insurance obtained through a mutual association formed by shipowners to provide liability insurance protection from large financial loss to one member through contributions towards that loss by all members.

Scrapping-The disposal of old or damaged vessel tonnage by way of sale as scrap metal.

Scrubber or Exhaust Gas Cleaning System- This equipment is used to remove SOxfrom ship's exhaust gas.

Short-Term Time Charter-A time charter which lasts less than approximately 12 months.

SOLAS-The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974, as amended, adopted under the auspices of the IMO.

Special Survey-The inspection of a vessel by a classification society surveyor which takes place a minimum of every four years and a maximum of every five years.

Spot Market-The market for immediate chartering of a vessel usually for single voyages.

Supramax-A drybulk carrier ranging in size from approximately 50,000 to 60,000 dwt.

Technical Management-The management of the operation of a vessel, including physically maintaining the vessel and all of its machinery, maintaining necessary certifications, and supplying necessary stores, spares, and lubricating oils. Responsibilities also generally include selecting, engaging and training crew, and arranging necessary insurance coverage.

Time Charter-Contract for hire of a ship. A charter under which the shipowner is paid charter hire rate on a per day basis for a certain period of time, the shipowner being responsible for providing the crew and paying operating costs while the charterer is responsible for paying the voyage costs. Any delays at port or during the voyages are the

responsibility of the charterer, save for certain specific exceptions such as loss of time arising from vessel breakdown and routine maintenance.

Ultramax-A drybulk carrier ranging in size from approximately 60,000 to 65,000 dwt.

Voyage Charter-Contract for hire of a vessel under which a shipowner is paid freight on the basis of moving cargo from a loading port to a discharge port. The shipowner is responsible for paying both operating costs and voyage costs. The charterer is typically responsible for any delay at the loading or discharging ports.

Voyage Expenses-Includes fuel, port charges, canal tolls, brokerage commissions and cargo handling operations. These expenses are subtracted from shipping revenues to calculate Time Charter Equivalent revenues for Voyage Charters.

Vessel Operating Expenses-Includes crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lubes, communication expenses.

Available Information

The Company makes available free of charge through its internet website, www.eagleships.com[http://www.eagleships.com], its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports including related exhibits and supplemental schedules, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Our SEC filings are also available to the public at the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov[http://www.sec.gov]. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.

We maintain our principal executive offices at 300 First Stamford Place 5thFloor, Stamford, Connecticut. Our telephone number at that address is (203) 276-8100. Our website address is www.eagleships.com[http://www.eagleships.com]. Information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

We operate in a highly cyclical and competitive industry. Some of the risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market, national and global economic conditions and the ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of certain geopolitical, macroeconomic, or industry-specific factors, including the risks outlined below, could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.

Industry Specific Risk Factors

The global economic environment may have a material adverse effect on our business.

Drybulk demand is highly correlated to the global macroeconomic landscape. According to the International Monetary Fund ("IMF"), global economic growth for 2021 was 5.9%, as compared to 2020 which was -3.1%. World output in 2020 was impacted significantly by COVID-19, but experienced a strong rebound in 2021. As of January 2022, the forecast for 2022 is 4.4% growth, compared to a 5-year average of 3.4% for the period 2015 to 2019. Although the current global economic environment is relatively positive, a resurgence of COVID-19 or slowdown in vaccine distribution or other events that impact the global economic environment, such as the recent invasion of Ukraine by Russia and any resulting macroeconomic impacts from this event, could affect us negatively in the following ways:

•Employing our fleet at charter hire rates below our breakeven levels which could negatively impact our ability to operate and generate a profit. Operating at below breakeven levels for a prolonged period of time may leave us with insufficient cash resources to meet certain obligations, including the payment of interest and principal on our debt, causing us to potentially breach financial covenants under our existing credit facility and bond terms.

•Our charterers may fail to meet their obligations under existing time charter or voyage charter agreements.

•The market value of our fleet could decrease, causing us to potentially recognize losses if vessels are sold or if their values impaired. Additionally, a decline in the value of our fleet could cause us to breach certain covenants under our existing credit facility.

Changes in the economic and political environment in China, including as a result of COVID-19, which was first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, and policies adopted by the Chinese government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business.

China is a major source of demand for drybulk; a deterioration in the economic fundamentals for this nation, including as a result of COVID-19, which was first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, may materially impact drybulk demand. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a market economy and enterprise reform.

Many of the reforms, particularly some limited price reforms that result in the prices for certain commodities being principally determined by market forces, are unprecedented and may be subject to revision, change or abolition. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the amount of its imports and exports could adversely be affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

A decrease in the level of China's export of goods or an increase in trade protectionism globally or by certain countries could have a material adverse impact on our charterers' business and, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Our vessels may be deployed on routes involving trade in and out of emerging markets, and our charterers' shipping and business revenue may be derived from the shipment

of goods from the Asia Pacific region to various overseas export markets including the United States and Europe. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China-based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China's exports and on our charterers' business. For instance, the government of China has recently implemented economic policies aimed at increasing domestic consumption of Chinese-made goods. This may have the effect of reducing the supply of goods available for export and may, in turn, result in decreased demand for our charterers' business. The level of imports to and exports from China could also be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government.

Our operations expose us to the risk that increased trade protectionism, including by the United States, will adversely affect our business. If the global economy is undermined by downside risks, governments may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for international shipping. Ongoing current trade frictions between the United States and China increase the risk of interruptions to exports from and to China. Since July 2018, the U.S. Government has imposed additional tariffs ranging from 7.5% to 25% on Chinese-origin goods covering the vast majority of products traded between the two countries. China has retaliated with increased tariffs on some U.S. goods. These tariffs caused trade between the two countries to significantly decrease in 2018 and 2019. On January 15, 2020, the United States and China signed a "Phase One" trade agreement, in which China agreed to increase its purchases and imports of U.S. goods by $200 billion over 2017 levels during the two-year period from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2021. This had the effect of increasing exports from the United States to China, although China did not meet its commitments and thus exports did not increase as much as required by the agreement. In connection with this agreement, the United States agreed to reduce certain tariffs and indefinitely suspend the imposition of certain additional tariffs. Nonetheless, U.S. tariffs of 7.5% to 25% on the vast majority of Chinese products and Chinese retaliatory tariffs on some U.S. products remain in place. While the Phase One agreement may reduce the risk of adverse effects on Chinese and U.S. trade policy, the success of the agreement is uncertain, as the Biden Administration has recently signaled the need to maintain political pressure on China, particularly with respect to national security and human rights concerns, and to respond to China's failure to achieve its commitments under the agreement, including through the continued or escalated use of restrictive or protectionist trade policies. Further increased protectionism in the markets that our charterers serve may cause an increase in: (i) the cost of goods exported from China, (ii) the length of time required to deliver goods from China and (iii) the risks associated with exporting goods from China, as well as a decrease in the quantity of goods to be shipped. Moreover, despite the Phase One agreement the United States continues to implement a number of policies that may reduce trade between the United States and China, including stricter export control requirements and supply chain restrictions; targeted sanctions related to the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong and human rights abuses in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region ("XUAR"); sanctions that prohibit U.S. persons from purchasing or selling any publicly traded securities, or any publicly traded securities that are derivative of or designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of certain Chinese companies; and import restrictions related to human rights abuses in China generally, but with a focus on the XUAR. While it is unclear how the Biden Administration will handle each of these policies, the expectation is that most of these measures will remain in place or be further strengthened.

Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade, especially trade with China, would still have an adverse impact on our charterers' business, operating results, and financial condition and could thereby affect their ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew and increase the number of their time charters with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.

The COVID-19 or other pandemics, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.

We believe that COVID-19 and the measures to contain it taken by governments of various countries have negatively affected our business and could continue to do so. COVID-19 impacted the global economies and the trade routes in which we operate, the way we conduct our business and the business of our charterers. Governments have imposed lockdowns, quarantine regulations and other emergency health measures to protect their citizens from

exposure to COVID-19. We took similar precautions, by repurposing our global office spaces to meet the social distancing guidelines, enabling our employees to work remotely and froze our corporate travel until the pandemic restrictions were lifted.

The Company experienced delays in cargo operations due to port restrictions and additional protocols and cancellation of a few cargo contracts. However, the Company was able to secure alternative business for its vessels upon cancellation at the prevailing charter rates. The travel restrictions imposed at various ports have severely impeded our crew rotation plans during the year. We experienced disruptions to our normal vessel operations and incurred additional off-hire time due to deviations our vessels had to take to allow for crew changes. As a result of the spread of COVID-19, the Company has incurred some additional expenses relating to procurement of personal protective equipment, COVID-19 testing, and crew travel, which is included in our vessel operating expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Additionally, the Company experienced some delays in operations, drydocking and BWTS installations as a result of protocols regarding COVID-19, as well as limitations of labor. We also experienced loss of revenues due to a number of off-hire days relating to crew changes and quarantine restrictions as a number of our crew members tested positive for COVID-19 during 2021.

All of the foregoing have impacted our business in 2020 and 2021 and although the current drybulk rates are high, the negative effects of the pandemic may have prolonged impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and forward-looking expectations. Furthermore, modified processes, procedures and controls could be required to respond to changes in our business environment. The increase in remote working of our employees may exacerbate certain risks to our business, including an increased demand for information technology resources, increased risk of malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks and phishing attacks, and increased risk of improper dissemination of personal, proprietary or confidential information.

Charter rates for drybulk vessels are volatile and could experience an extended period of low rates, which may adversely affect our earnings, revenue and profitability and our ability to comply with our loan covenants.

The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with high volatility in charter rates and profitability. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of drybulk vessels has varied widely. In the past, time charter and spot market charter rates for drybulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels (including as recently as 2016). The Baltic Supramax Index or the "BSI", a daily average of charter rates for key drybulk routes published by the Baltic Exchange Ltd, which tracks the gross time charter spot value for a Supramax vessel. Initiated in 2005, the BSI was originally based on a 52,000 dwt ship of standard design and 6 trade routes across the world.As a result of a trend toward larger ship sizes and changes to trade patterns, this version of the index was discontinued as of January 31, 2019.The updated BSI is now based on a 58,000 dwt, non-scrubber fitted Supramax and 10 trade routes across the world. Over the last ten years (i.e., 2011-2021), the calendar year average for the BSI has ranged from $6,966 in 2015 to $26,768 in 2021. The average of daily rates from 2011 to 2021 was approximately $11,100.

Our ability to be profitable will depend upon a number of factors. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply of and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for the major commodities carried by water internationally. Because the factors affecting the supply of and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Since we charter our vessels principally in the spot market, we are exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot market. Spot market charter rates may fluctuate significantly based upon available charters and the supply of and demand for seaborne shipping capacity, and we may be unable to keep our vessels fully employed in these short-term markets. Alternatively, charter rates available in the spot market may be insufficient to enable our vessels to operate profitably. A significant decrease in charter rates would also affect asset values and adversely affect our profitability and cash flows.

Factors that influence the demand for drybulk vessel capacity include:

•supply of and demand for energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products;

•changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products;

•the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities;

•the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products;

•the globalization of production and manufacturing;

•global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes;

•natural disasters and weather;

•disruptions and developments in international trade, including trade disputes, the imposition of tariffs on various commodities or finished goods, or export controls;

•disruptions from conflict/war and any related sanctions or restrictions imposed on certain regions or/and countries;

•changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea;

•environmental and other legal regulatory developments;

•currency exchange rates.

Factors that influence the supply of drybulk vessel capacity include:

•the number of newbuilding orders and deliveries including slippage in deliveries;

•number of shipyards and ability of shipyards to deliver vessels;

•port and canal congestion;

•the scrapping rate of vessels;

•speed of vessel operation;

•vessel casualties;

•the number of vessels that are out of service, namely those that are laid-up, dry docked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire;

•availability of financing for new vessels;

•changes in national or international regulations that may effectively cause reductions in the carrying capacity of vessels or early obsolescence of tonnage; and

•changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels.

In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance costs, insurance

coverage costs, the efficiency and age profile of the existing drybulk fleet in the market, and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions.

We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk vessels will be dependent upon economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk fleet, including vessel scrapping and ordering rates of newbuildings, and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. A decrease in the level of China's imports of raw materials or a decrease in trade globally could have a material adverse impact on our charterers' business and, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Global drybulk supply is expected to remain low over the next two years, as a result of low orders placed over the past three years and future uncertainties relating to future regulations around decarbonization. Although global economic conditions have improved, there can be no assurance as to the sustainability of future economic growth. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.

If we are required to charter our vessels at a time when demand and charter rates are very low, we may not be able to secure employment for our vessels at all, or we may have to accept reduced and potentially unprofitable rates. If we are unable to secure profitable employment for our vessels, we may decide to lay-up some or all unemployed vessels until such time that charter rates become attractive again. During the lay-up period, we will continue to incur some expenditures, such as insurance and maintenance costs, for each such vessel. Additionally, before exiting lay-up, we will have to pay reactivation costs for any such vessel to regain its operational condition. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our compliance with covenants in our credit facility may be affected.

Our operating results will be subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results.

Demand for vessel capacity has historically exhibited seasonal variations and, as a result, fluctuations in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results for our vessels trading in the spot market. The drybulk market is typically stronger in the fall (due to both increased North American grain shipments and higher coal purchases for heating fuel ahead of the cold winter months) and spring (due to increased South American grain shipments). In addition, unpredictable weather patterns may disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. To the extent that we must enter into a new charter or renew an existing charter for a vessel in our fleet during a time when seasonal variations have reduced prevailing charter rates, our operating results may be adversely affected.

An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity across the industry may depress the charter rates, which may limit our ability to operate our drybulk carriers profitably.

The global drybulk fleet increased significantly from 2009 to 2013 as a result of the large number of newbuilding orders placed during the boom in the drybulk freight market from 2007 to 2008. Scrapping of older ships helped curtail some of this new supply growth, but was not enough to materially offset the large net growth in the fleet. Supply growth momentum has slowed significantly over the last five years as fewer newbuilding orders have been placed. During 2021, thefleet growth decreased slightly to 3.6% in 2021 from 3.8% in 2020. In 2021, vessels representing 37.9 million dwt were delivered, a decrease of 11.0 million dwt from 2020. Scrapping in 2021 totaled 5.1 million dwt, a decrease of 10.2 million dwt from 2020.

Although supply growth has been decreasing, any increase in the vessel supply or increase in newbuilding ordering levels may decrease our future charter rates earned on our vessels affecting our profitability and our ability to meet our financial obligations as they become due.

The market values of our vessels are volatile and may decline which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or cause us to breach certain financial covenants under our credit facility or bond terms.

The fair market values of our vessels have been very volatile. As of December 31, 2021, the fair market value of our fleet is higher than their carrying value; however, the fair market value of our vessels may continue to fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including:

•prevailing level of charter rates;

•the duration and impact of COVID-19;

•general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry;

•types, sizes, and ages of vessels;

•supply of and demand for vessels;

•other modes of transportation;

•cost of new buildings;

•governmental or other regulations;

•the need to upgrade secondhand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment or otherwise; and

•technological advances.

Conversely, if vessel values are elevated at a time when we wish to acquire additional vessels, the cost of acquisition may increase and this could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.

Declines in charter rates and vessel values could cause us to incur impairment charges.

We evaluate the carrying amounts of our vessels to determine if events have occurred that would require an impairment of their carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed based on events and changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. The review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires us to make various estimates including future freight rates and earnings from the vessels. All of these items have been historically volatile.

If indicators of impairment are present, we perform an analysis of the undiscounted projected net operating cash flows for each vessel and compare it to the vessel's carrying value. We record impairment charges if the projected net operating cash flows do not exceed the carrying value. The amount of impairment recorded is equal to the difference between the fair market value and the carrying value of each vessel.

The carrying values of our vessels may not represent their fair market value in the future because the new market prices of second-hand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in charter rates and the cost of new buildings. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of declines in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our ability to meet the financial covenants in our loan agreements.

Fuel cost, or bunker prices, may adversely affect profits.

While we generally do not bear the cost of fuel, or bunkers, for vessels operating on time charters, fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability at the time of charter negotiation. Fuel is also a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail.

New regulations restricting sulfur emissions became effective January 1, 2020. We installed scrubbers on 37 of our vessels as part of our strategy to comply with the sulfur emissions regulations, and ten of the vessels we acquired from 2019 to 2021 were equipped with scrubbers upon delivery to the Company. As of December 31, 2021, the Company has 47 vessels of the fleet which are scrubber fitted.

Beginning January 1, 2020, we transitioned to consuming IMO compliant fuel on our vessels that were not equipped with scrubbers or when our scrubbers could not be used. Generally, VLSFO is more expensive than HSFO. During 2021, the fuel prices have increased and are expected to continue to rise during 2022. As a result, the cost differential between the low sulfur fuel and the high sulfur fuel has widened. The cost differential between the two grades of fuel increased from $72/MT in the fourth quarter of 2020 to $134/MT in the fourth quarter of 2021.

Although the fuel prices recovered during 2021, if the cost differential between the low sulfur fuel and high sulfur fuel stays at a lower than anticipated level, we may not realize the economic benefits or recover the cost of the scrubbers we have installed. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, a number of countries have imposed restrictions on the discharge of wash water from open loop scrubbers within their port limits. While there are no restrictions on using open loop scrubbers outside of port limits, any changes in these regulations or more stringent standards globally could impact the use of open loop scrubbers going forward.

Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business.

The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention.

A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two and a half to five years for inspection, depending on its age, of its underwater parts.

Compliance with the above requirements may result in significant expense. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to, OPA, CERCLA, the CAA, the CWA, the MTSA, requirements of the USCG and the EPA, and regulations of the IMO, including MARPOL, as from time to time amended including designation of ECAs thereunder, SOLAS, as from time to time amended, the ISM Code, the LL Convention, the Bunker Convention, and EU regulations. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast and bilge waters, elimination of tin-based paint, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard

to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are strictly, and jointly and severally, liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. For additional information regarding the environmental regulations affecting our operations, see Item 1. Business.

In March 2021, the U.S. government began investigating an allegation that one of the Company's vessels may have improperly disposed of ballast water that entered the engine room bilges during a repair. The investigation of this alleged violation of environmental laws is ongoing, and although at this time we do not believe that this matter will have a material impact on the Company, our financial condition or results of operations, we cannot determine what penalties, if any, will be imposed. We have posted a surety bond as security for any fines, penalties or associated costs that may be issued, and the Company is cooperating fully with the U.S. government in its investigation of this matter. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company incurred and recorded $2.8 million as Other operating expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations, relating to this incident, which includes legal fees, surety bond expenses, vessel off-hire, crew changes and travel costs.

World events could affect our operations and financial results.

Past terrorist attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks around the world, and the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, continue to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Conflicts, instability and other recent developments in the Middle East, Europe and elsewhere may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We could also be negatively impacted by market disruption caused by health crises. In December 2019, COVID-19 was reported in China and has since spread across the world. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic. In response, many countries, ports, and organizations, including those where the Company conducts a large part of its operations, have implemented measures to combat the pandemic, such as quarantines and travel restrictions. Such measures led to a significant short-term slowdown in the worldwide economic activity and decline in demand for drybulk cargoes, which resulted to lower charter rates and shipping revenues in 2020. Although the 2021 drybulk rates were higher, the negative effects of the pandemic may have a prolonged impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and forward-looking expectations. Please refer toItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis - Business outlookfor additional information.

This outbreak adversely affected the Company by (i) reducing demand for its services because of reduced global or national economic activity primarily during 2020 and (ii) negatively impacted our ability to perform crew changes on our vessels. Although this disruption from COVID-19 may only be temporary, given the dynamic nature of these circumstances, the duration of business disruption and the related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time but could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business.

Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, West Africa and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although the frequency of sea piracy worldwide has decreased from 2014 to 2021, sea piracy incidents continue to occur in the Gulf of Guinea and the West Coast of Africa, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. The Company experienced two piracy incidents, one each in 2020 and 2021, on our vessels which were resolved peacefully and

without significant losses to the Company, and with no loss of life, or personal injury, to our crew members. If piracy attacks continue to occur in regions that are characterized as "war risk" zones, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, insurance premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs and costs in relation to the employment of onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. Furthermore, if our vessels were seized and detained by pirates, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention or hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

If our vessels call on ports located in countries or territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions imposed by the UN, the United States, the EU or other relevant authorities, or if we are found to be in violation of sanctions, there could be an adverse effect on our reputation, business position, financial condition or results of operations, or the market for our common shares.

As a company maintaining its corporate office in the United States with offices in Denmark and Singapore, we are subject to U.S. and EU economic sanctions and trade embargo laws and regulations as well as equivalent economic sanctions laws of other relevant jurisdictions in connection with our activities. The laws and regulations of these different jurisdictions vary in their application and do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities. In addition, the sanctions and embargo laws and regulations of each jurisdiction may be amended to increase or reduce the restrictions they impose over time, and the lists of persons and entities designated under these laws and regulations are amended frequently. Moreover, most sanctions regimes provide that entities owned or controlled by the persons or entities designated in such lists are also subject to sanctions. The U.S. and EU have enacted new sanctions programs in recent years. Additional countries or territories, as well as additional persons or entities within or affiliated with those countries or territories, have been, and in the future, the target of sanctions. Further, the U.S. has increased its focus on sanctions enforcement with respect to the shipping sector.

As a result of Russian actions in Ukraine, the U.S., EU and United Kingdom, together with numerous other countries, have imposed significant sanctions on persons and entities associated with Russia and Belarus, as well as comprehensive sanctions on certain areas within the Donbas region of Ukraine, and such sanctions apply to entities owned or controlled by such designated persons or entities. These sanctions adversely affect our ability to operate in the region and also restrict parties whose cargo we may carry. Moreover, historically, the majority of our crew have been hired through two crew manning agents, one Russian and the other Ukrainian. The officers and crew are primarily Russian and Ukrainian. The evolving situation in Ukraine and the sanctions being imposed may adversely affect our ability to hire and/or pay our crew for our vessels.

In recent years, multilateral international sanctions targeting Iran have restricted and/or prohibited us and our charterers from engaging in Iran-related activities, including calling on ports in Iran. The United States continues to maintain comprehensive sanctions on Iran that generally prohibit persons and companies in the United States, as well as U.S. persons and persons owned or controlled by U.S. persons, wherever located, from engaging in nearly all Iran-related activity. In addition, following the U.S. withdrawal from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ("JCPOA"), the U.S. re-imposed all of its previously-lifted sanctions that target non-U.S. companies for engaging in certain activities with Iran, including those related to Iran's energy, shipping, shipbuilding, and insurance sectors, and has issued additional sanctions targeting other sectors of the Iranian economy. On the other hand, the EU has stayed in the JCPOA and maintained the lifting of nearly all of its sanctions targeting Iran, except for targeted asset freezes and travel bans against certain Iranian individuals and entities and restrictions on activities related to the military, nuclear proliferation and human rights abuses. The EU and Germany also have blocking rules in place intended to protect the interests of EU persons against the extraterritorial application of U.S. sanctions against Iran and Cuba.

In November 2015, the Company filed a voluntary self-disclosure report regarding certain apparent violations of U.S. sanctions regulations in the provision of shipping services for third party charterers with respect to the transportation of cargo to or from Myanmar (formerly Burma), which occurred under a different senior operational management team. In January 2020, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with OFAC in which the Company agreed to make a one-time payment to the U.S. Department of the Treasury in the amount of $1.125 million and undertake certain compliance commitments in exchange for OFAC agreeing to release and forever discharge the Company and its subsidiaries, without any finding of fault, from any and all civil liability in connection with these apparent violations. The settlement does not constitute an admission of fault or wrongdoing by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Sanctions and trade embargo laws and regulations are generally subject to strict liability. Although we intend to maintain compliance with all applicable economic sanctions and trade embargo laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that, notwithstanding our compliance safeguards, we will not be found in the future to have been in violation, particularly as the sanctions and embargo laws and regulations are amended, the scope of certain laws and regulations may be unclear, and the laws and regulations are subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators that may change over time. Further, charterers or other counterparties may violate provisions in contracts with us, or legal restrictions relating to sanctions. Any such violation might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, including that any such violation could result in substantial fines or other civil and/or criminal penalties that could be increased due to our prior settlement agreement with OFAC, andcould severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business. Additionally, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected and /or some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in the Company if we engage in certain other activities in countries subject to sanctions, such as entering into permissible charters or engaging in permissible operations with individuals or entities in or associated with those countries. The determination by these investors and/or lenders not to invest in, or to divest from, our common shares may adversely affect the price at which our common shares trade. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.

Investor perception of the value of our common shares may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries.

We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports.

The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Each of the vessels that has been delivered to us is ISM Code-certified and we expect that each other vessel that we have agreed to purchase will be ISM Code-certified when delivered to us. However, if we are subject to increased liability for non-compliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of non-compliance, it may negatively affect our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, our revenues may be adversely impacted.

In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel-owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance.

The operation of our vessels is also affected by other government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations.

Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business.

International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination and trans-shipment points. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us.

It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period.

Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the "sister ship" theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with "sister ship" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own.

Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price.

The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of:

•marine disaster;

•environmental accidents;

•cargo and property losses or damage;

•business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and

•piracy.

These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover these costs or losses and may have to pay drydocking costs not covered by our insurance. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of cash that we have available for dividends. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced

to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator.

Our business has inherent operational risks, which may not be adequately covered by insurance.

The operation of our company has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels' holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel's bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator.

Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, environmental accidents, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. In addition, transporting cargoes across a wide variety of international jurisdictions creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes and boycotts, the potential for changes in tax rates or policies, and the potential for government expropriation of our vessels. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters.

In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. We procure insurance for the vessels in our fleet employed against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include marine hull and machinery insurance, Protection and Indemnity Insurance, which include pollution risks and crew insurances, and war risk insurance. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through P&I Associations and providers of excess coverage is $1.0 billion per vessel per occurrence.

We have procured hull and machinery insurance, Protection and Indemnity Insurance (including pollution insurance), and war risk insurance for our fleet. We have also purchased insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result from the loss of use of a vessel. We may not be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future, and we may not be able to obtain certain insurance coverage, including insurance against charter party defaults, that we have obtained in the past on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. Moreover, insurers may default on claims they are required to pay.

We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks or that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our vessels in the future. For example, in the past more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings.

A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at unilateral charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues.

Failure to comply with the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws could result in fines, criminal penalties, and an adverse effect on our business.

We may operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the FCPA. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and/or agents may take actions determined to be in violation of applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA. Any such violation might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, any such violation could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business and could result in some investors and/or lenders deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us or lend to us. The determination by these investors and/or lenders not to invest in, or to divest from, our common shares may adversely affect the price at which our common shares trade. Any such violation could also result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.

Cyber-attacks or other security breaches involving our computer systems or the systems of one or more of our vendors could materially and adversely affect our business.

Our systems are vulnerable to cyber security risks, and we are subject to potential disruption caused by such activities. Companies such as ours are subject to cyber-attacks on their systems. Such attacks may have various goals, from seeking confidential information to causing operational disruption. Although to date such activities have not resulted in material disruptions to our operations or, to our knowledge, a material breach of any security or confidential information, no assurance can be provided that such disruptions or breach will not occur in the future. Additionally, any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation, regulatory investigations, penalties, ongoing expenses related to client credit monitoring and support, and other expenses, any of which could damage our reputation and adversely affect the growth of our business. While we have deployed resources that are responsible for maintaining appropriate levels of cyber-security, and while we utilize third party technology products and services to help identify, protect, and remediate our information technology systems and infrastructure against security breaches and cyber-incidents, our responsive and precautionary measures may not be adequate or effective to prevent, identify, or mitigate attacks by hackers, foreign governments, or other actors or breaches caused by employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions.

Financial Risk Factors

The state of the global financial markets may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing, including the refinancing of our existing credit facility and bond terms, on acceptable terms, restricting us from being able to operate or expand our business.

Global financial markets are volatile with access to debt and equity capital being potentially expensive or restrictive. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available if, and when, needed. We also cannot be certain that

we will be able to refinance our existing credit facility and bond terms, on acceptable terms or at all, prior to maturity. If additional financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, nor be able to grow our existing business through potential acquisitions or similar opportunities as they arise. For more information on our debt facilities, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 6, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements.

If general economic conditions throughout the world deteriorate, including as a result of COVID-19, it will impede our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could impair our ability to access capital markets at a reasonable cost.

If the economic conditions in the world deteriorate, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions such as those that occurred as a result of COVID-19 in 2020, and the adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facility or any future financial arrangements and may cause the trading price of our common shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market to decline.

A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, and particularly in China and India, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. China's gross domestic product grew by 8.1% in 2021, as compared to 2.3% in 2020. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will not experience a significant contraction in the future. The ongoing trade dispute between the United States and China may have an adverse effect on the Chinese economy, including on industrial production and exports. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic growth and urbanization, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these initiatives by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions. Notwithstanding economic reform, the Chinese government may adopt policies that favor domestic drybulk shipping companies and may hinder our ability to compete with them effectively. Moreover, a significant or protracted slowdown in the economies of the United States, the EU or various Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries.

We have substantial indebtedness, and if we default under our loan agreements, our lenders may act to accelerate our outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility, which would impact our ability to continue to conduct our business.

At December 31, 2021, the Company's debt excluding debt issuance costs totaled $401.7 million of which $49.8 million is shown in the current portion of long-term debt.

As described under Note 6, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements, the obligations under these agreements are secured by collateral, contain a number of operating restrictions, covenants and events of default, and a breach of any of the covenants could result in an event of default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions.

The failure of our charterers to meet their obligations under our charter agreements, on which we depend for substantially all of our revenues, could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business and ability to comply with covenants in our credit facility.

The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry and the overall financial condition of the counterparties. Charterers are sensitive to the commodity markets and may be impacted by market forces affecting commodities, such as iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks. In addition, in depressed market conditions, there have been reports of charterers, including some of our charter counterparties, defaulting on their obligations under charters, and our customers may fail to pay charter hire. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under its charter with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel at a similar charter rate. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, if any, in the future, and compliance with covenants in our credit facility.

Utilizing derivative instruments, such as forward freight, bunker and interest rate swap agreements, could result in losses.

From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments, including FFAs, interest rate swaps and bunker swaps. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner's exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. We recorded a net realized and unrealized loss of $38.2 million on FFAs and bunker swaps which was recorded in Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

In addition, we entered into, and in the future may enter into additional, interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of our debt from a floating to a fixed-rate basis. Under these swap contracts, exclusive of applicable margins, we pay fixed rate interest and receive floating-rate interest amounts based on three-month LIBOR settings. If our hedging strategies are not effective, we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements.

Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions,results of operations or cash flows.

Our revolver facility under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility exposes us to interest rate risk.

Although the interest on our outstanding term loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility is fixed by an interest rate swaps, our earnings are exposed to interest rate risk associated with the revolver facility under Global Ultraco Debt Facility, which is undrawn as of December 31, 2021, and bears interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 2.50% per annum. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on multiple facts, including general short-term interest rates, rates set by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks, the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market and general economic conditions. Accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period will fluctuate based on LIBOR. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Changes in our interest rates under our credit facility and our interest rate swaps due to the phase-out of LIBOR may adversely affect our interest expense.

LIBOR is the basic rate of interest used in lending between banks on the London interbank market and is widely used as a reference for setting the interest rates on loans globally. We generally use LIBOR as a reference rate to calculate interest rates under our credit facility. In 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"), which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intended to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2021. Subsequently, the administrator of LIBOR announced its plan to cease publication of certain LIBOR rates after June 30, 2023. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with a new index, the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"), calculated using short-term repurchase agreements backed by Treasury securities. SOFR is observed and backward looking, unlike LIBOR under the current methodology, which is an estimated forward-looking rate and relies, to some degree, on the expert judgment of submitting panel members. Given that SOFR is a secured rate backed by government securities, it will be a rate that does not take into account bank credit risk (as is the case with LIBOR). SOFR also may be more volatile than LIBOR. Whether or not SOFR, or another alternative reference rate, attains market traction as a LIBOR replacement tool remains in question. Although we expect that the capital and debt markets will cease to use LIBOR as a benchmark in the near future, and the administrator of LIBOR announced its intention to extend the publication of most tenors of LIBOR for U.S. dollars through June 30, 2023, we cannot predict whether or when LIBOR will actually cease to be available, whether SOFR will become the market benchmark in its place or what impacts such a transition may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ultraco and the facility agent may amend the Global Ultraco Debt Facility to replace LIBOR with an alternate benchmark rate (including any mathematical or other adjustments to the benchmark (if any) incorporated therein, a "LIBOR Successor Rate"). We may also need to amend our interest rate swaps and any credit facilities to replace LIBOR with an agreed upon replacement index. This could cause certain of the interest rates under our credit facility and interest rate swaps to change. The new rates may not be as favorable to us as those in effect prior to any LIBOR phase-out. We may also find it desirable to engage in more frequent interest rate hedging transactions.

Company Specific Risk Factors

We are dependent on spot charters and any decrease in spot charter rates in the future may adversely affect our earnings, our ability to pay dividends or meet our financial covenants on our indebtedness.

As of December 31, 2021, we owned a fleet of 53 vessels which are employed for less than one year exposing us to fluctuations in spot market charter rates. Historically, the drybulk market has been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price, supply and demand for drybulk capacity. A global economic crisis may reduce demand for transportation of drybulk cargoes, which may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. The spot charter market may fluctuate significantly based upon supply of and demand for vessels and cargoes. The successful operation of our vessels in the competitive spot charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. The spot market is very volatile, and, in the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. If future spot charter rates decline, then we may be unable to operate our vessels trading in the spot market profitably, meet our obligations, including payments on indebtedness, or to pay dividends, if any, in the future. Furthermore, as charter rates for spot charters are fixed for a single voyage, which may last up to several weeks, during periods in which spot charter rates are rising, we will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from such increases.

The laws of the Marshall Islands generally prohibit the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds or surplus to make distributions to us. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid at all.

In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of the board of directors, restrictions contained in our existing debt agreements and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, the Company's earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, the ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by the Company's growth strategy, the terms of its outstanding indebtedness and the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to distribute funds to it. During 2021, the Company adopted a dividend policy which allows for a minimum dividend of 30% of its net income, but not less than $0.10 per share, subject to approval from its board of directors. Pursuant to the adoption, the Company declared a dividend of $2.00 per outstanding share of common stock based on its net income of $78.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. Additionally, on February 22, 2022, the Company declared a dividend of $2.05 per outstanding share of common stock, based on net income of $87.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2021. Please see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Dividends.

We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly and integrating newly acquired vessels.

The management of the 53 vessels in our owned fleet, as of December 31, 2021, and additional drybulk vessels that we may acquire in the future impose significant responsibilities on our management and staff. The addition of vessels to our fleet may require us to increase the number of our personnel. Further, we are providing technical management services to all of our vessels in our fleet. We will also have to manage our customer base so that we can provide continued employment for our vessels upon the expiration of our existing charters.

We intend to continue to grow our business. Our future growth will primarily depend on:

•locating and acquiring suitable vessels;

•obtaining required financing on acceptable terms;

•identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures;

•enhancing our customer base; and

•managing our expansion.

Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth.

Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization.

While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into dry dock, which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels.

We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business.

We have entered into and may enter into in the future, among other things, charter agreements with our customers. Such agreements subject us to counter party risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of vessels, the supply and demand for commodities such as

iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks and various expenses. Should a counter party fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The loss of one or more of our significant customers may affect our financial performance.

Some of our charterers are privately owned companies for which limited credit and financial information was available to us in making our assessment of counter party risk when we entered into our charter. In addition, the ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. If one or more of these charterers terminates its charter or chooses not to re-charter our vessel or is unable to perform under its charter with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. In addition, we may be required to change the flagging or registration of the related vessel and may incur additional costs, including maintenance and crew costs if a charterer were to default on its obligations. Our shareholders do not have any recourse against our charterers. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Company had no charterers which individually accounted for more than 10% of the Company's gross charter revenue.

In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources, and as a result, we may be unable to employ our vessels profitably.

Our vessels are employed in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If we are unable to successfully compete with other drybulk shipping companies, our results of operations would be adversely impacted.

We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations.

Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be desirable. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers.

The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings.

In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Although the weighted average age of the 53 drybulk vessels in our owned fleet as of December 31, 2021 was approximately 9.3 years, as our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more expensive to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives.

Technological innovation could reduce our charter hire income and the value of our vessels.

The charter hire rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel's efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge cargo quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. The length of a vessel's physical life is related to its original design and construction, its maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new drybulk carriers are built that are more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced vessels could adversely affect the amount of charter hire payments we receive for our vessels once their initial charters expire and the resale value of our vessels could significantly decrease. As a result, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.

We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us.

We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which will reduce our earnings.

Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder.

We believe that we qualify for this statutory tax exemption for our 2021 taxable year and we intend to take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status. If we are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we could be subject for those years to an effective 2% U.S. federal income tax on the gross shipping income we derive during the year that are attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings and cash available to pay amounts due on the note or for distribution to our shareholders. For more information, see Item 1. Business - United States Federal Income Taxation of Our Company.

United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders.

A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income."

United States shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC.

Based on our current method of operation, we do not believe that we have been, are or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time and voyage chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time and voyage chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets.

There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation and there is authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations.

If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders may face adverse United States tax consequences and information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders made an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock at the then prevailing income tax rates applicable to ordinary income plus interest as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common stock.

We may be subject to additional taxes, including as a result of challenges by tax authorities or changes in applicable law, which could adversely impact our business and financial results.

We are subject to tax in certain jurisdictions in which we are organized, own assets or have operations. In computing our tax obligations in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that, upon review of these positions, the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority, or a change in applicable law, could result in additional tax imposed on us, which could adversely impact our business and financial results.

We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy certain of our financial obligations and to make dividend payments.

We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments in the future depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends.

As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels.

Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we continue to expand the size of our fleet in the future and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, if we further expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shore side administrative and management personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial

performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders may be reduced.

We conduct business in China, where the legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us.

Some of our vessels may be chartered to Chinese customers or from time to time on our charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on Chinese ports. Such charters and any additional charters that we enter into may be subject to new regulations in China that may require us to incur new or additional compliance or other administrative costs and may require that we pay to the Chinese government new taxes or other fees. Changes in laws and regulations, including with regards to tax matters, and their implementation by local authorities could affect our vessels chartered to Chinese customers as well as our vessels calling to Chinese ports and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The conflict between Russia and Ukraine may impact our ability to retain and source crew, and in turn, could adversely affect our revenue, expenses, and profitability.

We have relationships with Ukrainian and Russian manning agencies which procure our crews. The invasion of Ukraine by Russia may impact our ability to continue to source and retain crew from these countries. Continued hostilities and the implementation of sanctions may reduce, or eliminate, the pool of available crew from these countries, and in turn, result in delays and lost earnings for our vessels. We have relationships with manning agencies in areas outside of Ukraine and Russia, including in Asia. If we are not able to source Ukrainian and Russian crews in the future, we may experience delays and loss of earnings for our vessels until replacement crews are employed. We may incur additional travel expenses to repatriate the Russian and Ukrainian crew members on board our vessels, as well as their replacements sourced from other regions. Global crew wages may rise if the available supply of Russian and Ukrainian crew is diminished, as we will be competing with other shipowners to employ crew from other regions.

Risks Relating to Our Common Stock

We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law.

Our corporate affairs are governed by our Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (the "Charter") and Second Amended and Restated By-laws (the "Bylaws") and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act (the "BCA"). The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as United States courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law.

The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the future.

The market price of our common shares has fluctuated since we became a public company and may continue to do so as a result of many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of our competition and of the shipping industry in general and in particular the drybulk sector, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts'

recommendations or projections, changes in general valuations for companies in the shipping industry, particularly the drybulk sector, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations.

The public market for our common shares may not be active and liquid enough for you to resell our common shares in the future.

The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. If the volatility in the market continues or worsens, it could continue to have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and could impact a potential sale price if holders of our common stock decide to resell their shares.

The seaborne transportation industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may also be volatile. The market price of our common shares may be influenced by many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:

•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry;

•announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments;

•mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry;

•terrorist acts;

•future sales of our common shares or other securities;

•market conditions in the shipping industry;

•economic and regulatory trends;

•shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts;

•announcements concerning us or our competitors;

•the general state of the securities market; and

•investors' perception of us and the drybulk shipping industry.

As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for such shares. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance.

Certain shareholders own large portions of our outstanding common stock, which may limit other shareholders' ability to influence our actions.

Certain shareholders currently hold significant percentages of our common stock. To the extent a significant percentage of the ownership of our common stock is concentrated in a small number of holders, such holders will be able to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of incorporation or by-laws and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.

The effect of the sale of any borrowed shares, which sales, if any, may be made to facilitate transactions by which investors in our Convertible Bond Debt may hedge their investments, may be to lower the market price of our common stock.

We have been advised that certain selling shareholders may sell borrowed shares (including under this prospectus) and use the resulting short position to establish or maintain their hedge with respect to their investments in our Convertible Bond Debt. The existence of the share lending arrangements and the short sales of our common stock effected in connection therewith could cause the market price of our common stock to be lower over the term of the share lending arrangements than it would have been had we not entered into such arrangements, due to the effect of the increase in the number of our outstanding shares of common stock being traded in the market or otherwise.

Future sales, or availability for sale, of common stock by shareholders could depress the market price of our common stock.

Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, including sales by any selling shareholder or sales pursuant to our ATM Offering, or the perception that large sales could occur could depress the market price of our common stock. Such future sales, or perception thereof, could also impact our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-linked securities. During 2021, we issued 541,898 shares in relation to acquisition of four vessels. From time to time, we may issue additional shares in connection with the acquisition of vessels. As of March 9, 2022, we had 13,633,263 shares of common stock issued and outstanding.

To the extent we issue common stock upon conversion of our Convertible Bond Debt, the conversion of some or all of the Convertible Bond Debt will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. If we elect to deliver shares to holders of our Convertible Bond Debt with respect to the principal amount owed at maturity or upon the holder's exercise of the conversion option prior to maturity, the ownership interests of existing stockholders would be diluted. Any sales in the public market of common stock so issued could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of our Convertible Bond Debt may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of our Convertible Bond Debt could depress the price of our common stock.

Our shareholders are limited in their ability to elect or remove directors.

The Charter prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. The Bylaws require parties other than the board of directors to give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. The Charter also provides that directors may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors and vacancies occurring in the board of directors for any reason may only be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum exists.

Our shareholders may take action only at Annual or Special Meetings.

The Charter and the Bylaws provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by shareholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareholders. Except as otherwise mandated by law, shareholders may not act by written consent.

Under the Bylaws, annual shareholder meetings will be held at a time and place selected by the board of directors. The meetings may be held in or outside of the Marshall Islands. These provisions may impede shareholders' ability to take actions with respect to the Company that they deem appropriate or advisable.

The Charter and the Bylaws provide that, except as otherwise required by law, special meetings of shareholders may be called at any time only by (i) the lead director (if any), (ii) the chairman of the board of directors, (iii) the board of directors pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the board stating the purpose or purposes thereof, or (iv) any one or more shareholders who beneficially owns, in the aggregate, 15% or more of the aggregate voting power of all then-outstanding shares of Voting Stock. The notice of any such special meeting is to include the purpose or purposes thereof, and the business transacted at the special meeting is limited to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice (or any supplement thereto). These provisions may impede the ability of shareholders to bring matters before a special meeting of shareholders.

The board of directors may set a record date between 15 and 60 days before the date of any meeting to determine the shareholders that will be eligible to receive notice and vote at the meeting.

Our shareholders are subject to advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations

The Bylaws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. To be timely, a shareholder's notice will have to be received at the Company's principal executive offices not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, such as is the case for the 2019 annual meeting, notice by the shareholder must be received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever occurs first, in order for such notice by a shareholder to be timely. The Bylaws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder's notice. These advance notice requirements, particularly the 60 to 90 day requirement, may impede shareholders' ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders.

Certain super majority provisions in our organizational documents may discourage, delay or prevent changes to such documents.

The Charter provides that a two-thirds vote is required to amend or repeal certain provisions of the Charter and Bylaws, including those provisions relating to: the number and election of directors; filling of board vacancies; resignations and removals of directors; director liability and indemnification of directors; the power of shareholders to call special meetings; advance notice of director nominations and shareholders proposals; and amendments to the Charter and Bylaws. These super majority provisions may discourage, delay or prevent changes to the Charter or Bylaws.

Our Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that the U.S. federal courts located in the Southern District of New York or, if such courts lack jurisdiction, the state courts of the State of New York, shall be the sole and exclusive forum for certain disputes between us and our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees.

Our Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, or our Articles of Incorporation, provide that, unless the Company consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the U.S. federal courts located in the Southern District of New York or, if such court lacks jurisdiction, the state courts of the State of New York, shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (b)any action asserting a claim of a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or the Company's shareholders, (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the BCA or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This forum selection provision could apply to actions brought under provisions of the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act and Exchange Act. The forum selection provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims.

The Company may not achieve the intended benefits of having a forum selection provision if it is found to be unenforceable.

Our Articles of Incorporation include a forum selection provision as described above. However, the enforceability of similar forum selection provisions in other companies' governing documents has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that in connection with any action a court could find the forum selection provision contained in our Articles of Incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. If a court were to find the forum selection provision to be inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, the Company may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We do not own any real property. We lease office space at 300 First Stamford Place, Stamford CT 06902. In addition, we lease offices in Singapore and Copenhagen, Denmark. Our interests in our drybulk vessels are our only material properties. See Item 1. Business - Our Fleet.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

SeeNote9,Commitments and Contingencies, to the Company's consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K, for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Common Stock

The trading market for shares of our common stock is the Nasdaq Global Select Market, on which our shares are quoted under the symbol "EGLE."

On March 9, 2022, the closing sale price of our common stock, as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, was $63.32per share.

The number of shareholders of record of our common stock was approximately 112on March 9, 2022.

Payment of Dividends toShareholders

During 2021, the Company adopted a dividend policy which allows for a minimum dividend of 30% of its net income, but not less than $0.10 per share, subject to approval from its board of directors. During the year ended December 31, 2021, a quarterly cash dividend for the third quarter of 2021 of $2.00 per share was declared and paid on November 24, 2021 to the shareholders of record as of November 15, 2021. On February 22, 2022, a quarterly cash dividend for the fourth quarter of 2021 of $2.05 per share was declared and is to be paid on March 25, 2022 to the shareholders of record as of March 15, 2022. We expect to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, in the future, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of the board of directors, restrictions contained in the Company's debt facilities, and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, the Company's earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, the ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by the Company's growth strategy, the terms of its outstanding indebtedness and the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to distribute funds to it. See also Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Dividends.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

On December 15, 2016, the Company adopted the 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Plan"), which replaced the prior Management Incentive Program (the "2014 Plan"). Under the terms of the 2016 Plan, a maximum of 764,087 shares may be issued. Any director, officer, employee or consultant of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (including any prospective officer or employee) is eligible to be designated to participate in the 2016 Plan. On June 7, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment and restatement of the 2016 Plan, which increased the number of shares reserved under the 2016 Plan by an additional 357,142 shares to a maximum of 1,121,229 shares of common stock.

The following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 2021 regarding the 2016 Plan. The 2016 Plan was approved by our shareholders on December 15, 2016.

Plan Category                                          Securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights(1) Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights Remaining securities for future issuance under equity compensation plans(1)
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 47,568                                                                               $                                                                           38.60 191,013
(1)The sum, combined with 882,648 restricted shares issued consists of 1,121,229 shares eligible to be granted under the 2016 Plan.

ITEM 6. RESERVED

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and the risk factors identified in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report. For further discussion regarding our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, refer to Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.

General Overview

Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. ("Eagle" or the "Company") is a U.S. based fully integrated shipowner-operator providing global transportation solutions to a diverse group of customers including miners, producers, traders, and end users. Headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, with offices in Singapore and Copenhagen, Eagle focuses exclusively on the versatile mid-size drybulk vessel segment and owns one of the largest fleets of Supramax/ Ultramax vessels in the world. The Company performs all management services in-house such as strategic, commercial, operational, technical, and administrative services and employs an active management approach to fleet trading with the objective of optimizing revenue performance and maximizing earnings on a risk-managed basis. Typical cargoes we transport include both major bulk cargoes, such as iron ore, coal and grain coal, grain, and iron ore, and minor bulk cargoes such as fertilizer, steel products, petcoke, cement, and forest products. As of December 31, 2021, we owned and operated a modern fleet of 53 Supramax/Ultramax drybulk vessels. We chartered-in four Ultramax vessels on a long term basis with a remaining lease term of less than one year. In addition, the Company charters-in third-party vessels on a short to medium term basis.

Our owned fleet totals 53 vessels, with an aggregate carrying capacity of 3.19 million dwt and had an average age of 9.3 years as of December 31, 2021.

Financing

In March 2021, the Company entered into an at market issuance sales agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., BTIG, LLC and Fearnley Securities, Inc., as sales agents (each, a "Sales Agent" and collectively, the "Sales Agents"), to sell shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company with aggregate gross sales proceeds of up to $50.0 million, from time to time through an "at-the-market" offering program (the "ATM Offering"). During the second quarter of 2021, the Company sold and issued an aggregate of 581,385 shares at a weighted-average sales price of $47.97 per share under the ATM Offering for aggregate net proceeds of $27.1 million after deducting sales agent commissions and other offering costs. The proceeds were used for partial financing of vessel acquisitions and other corporate purposes.

On March 26, 2021, Eagle Bulk Holdco LLC ("Holdco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a Credit Agreement ("Holdco Revolving Credit Facility") made by and among (i) Holdco, as borrower, (ii) the Company and certain wholly-owned vessel-owning subsidiaries of Holdco, as joint and several guarantors, (iii) the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders (together with their successors and assigns, the "RCF Lenders"), (iv) Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Nordea Bank ABP, New York Branch, as mandated lead arrangers, (v) Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as arranger, facility agent and security trustee for the RCF Lenders. Pursuant to the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, the RCF lenders agreed to make available an aggregate principal amount of up to the lesser of (a) $35,000,000 and (b) 65% of the Fair Market Value of the Initial Vessels (as defined below). Borrowings under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, which were repaid in full on October 1, 2021, bore interest at a rate of 2.4% plus LIBOR for the relevant interest period.

On October 1, 2021, Eagle Bulk Ultraco LLC ("Eagle Ultraco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, along with certain of its vessel-owning subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a new senior secured credit facility (the "Global Ultraco Debt Facility") with the lenders party thereto (the "Global Ultraco Lenders") Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank ("Credit Agricole"), Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (PUBL), Danish Ship

Finance A/S, Nordea Bank ABP, Filial I Norge, DNB Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, and ING Bank N.V., London Branch. The Global Ultraco Debt Facility provides for an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million, which consists of (i) a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million (the "Global Ultraco Term Facility") and (ii) a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million (the "Global Ultraco Revolving Facility") to be used for refinancing the outstanding debt including accrued interest and commitment fees under the Norwegian Bond Debt and the New Ultraco Debt Facility and Holdco Revolving Credit Facility ("Previous Debt Facilities") and for general corporate purposes. The Company paid fees of $5.8 million to the lenders in connection with the transaction and incurred an additional $0.4 million as third party legal costs.

Pursuant to the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, the Company borrowed $350.0 million and together with cash on hand repaid the outstanding debt, accrued interest and commitment fees under the Previous Debt Facilities. Concurrently, the Company issued a ten day call notice to redeem the outstanding bonds under the Norwegian Bond Debt at a redemption price of 102.475% of the nominal amount of each bond. Pursuant to the bond terms, the Company paid $185.6 million consisting of $176.0 million par value of the outstanding bonds, accrued interest of $5.2 million and $4.4 million of a call premium into a defeasance account to be further credited to the bondholders upon expiry of the notice period. The bonds outstanding under the Norwegian Bond Debt were repaid in full on October 18, 2021 after the expiry of the requisite notice period. Additionally, the Company entered into four interest rate swaps for the notional amount of $300.0 million of the term loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility at a fixed interest rate ranging between 0.83% and 1.06% to hedge the LIBOR based floating interest rate.

The following are certain significant events with respect to our vessels that occurred during 2021:

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company sold one vessel (Tern) for total net proceeds of $9.2 million after brokerage commissions and associated selling expenses. The Company recorded a net gain of $4.0 million from the sale of the Tern in its Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company entered into a series of memorandum of agreements to purchase three high specification scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carriers for a total purchase price of $51.5 million including direct expenses of acquisition. The Company paid a deposit of $3.3 million related to the acquisition of these vessels as of December 31, 2020 and took delivery of the vessels during the first quarter of 2021.

During the first quarter of 2021, the Company entered into another series of memorandum of agreements to purchase four vessels. The first vessel is a high-specification scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carrier for a total purchase price of $15.3 million and a warrant convertible into 212,315 common shares of the Company. The remaining three vessels are 2011-built Crown-58 Supramax bulk carriers that were purchased for a total purchase price of $20.5 million and a warrant convertible into 329,583 common shares of the Company. The above mentioned prices include direct expenses of acquisition. Common shares were issuable upon exercise of warrants on a pro-rata basis in connection with each vessel delivery. The warrants were measured at fair value on the date of the memorandum of agreement and recorded as Vessels and vessel improvements on the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Company took delivery of the vessels. The fair value of the warrants for the total of 541,898 common shares was approximately $10.7 million as of the date of the memorandum of agreement for each vessel. The Company took delivery of the four vessels during the second and third quarters of 2021 and issued 541,898 shares of common stock upon conversion of outstanding warrants.

During the second quarter of 2021, the Company entered into memorandum of agreements to acquire two high-specification 2015-built scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carriers. This acquisition was partially financed with cash on hand, which included proceeds raised from equity issued under the Company's ATM Offering. The total cost of the vessels acquired including the direct costs of acquisition was $42.2 million. The Company took delivery of the two vessels in each of the third and fourth quarters of 2021.

Business Strategy and Outlook:

We believe our strong balance sheet allows us the flexibility to opportunistically make investments in the drybulk segment that will drive shareholder growth. In order to accomplish this, we intend to:

•Maintain a highly efficient and quality fleet in the drybulk segment;

•Maintain a revenue strategy that takes advantage of a rising rate environment and at the same time mitigate risk in a declining rate environment;

•Maintain a cost structure that allow us to be competitive in all economic cycles without sacrificing safety and maintenance;

•Continue to grow our relationships with our charterers and vendors; and

•Continue to invest in our on-shore operations and development of processes.

Our financial performance is based on the following key elements of our business strategy:

(1)Concentration in one vessel category: Supramax/Ultramax drybulk vessels, which we believe offer certain size, operational and geographical advantages relative to other classes of drybulk vessels, such as Handysize, Panamax and Capesize vessels,

(2)An active owner-operator model where we seek to operate our own fleet and develop contractual relationships with cargo interests. These relationships and the related cargo contracts have the dual benefit of providing greater operational efficiencies and act as a balance to the Company's naturally long position to the market. Notwithstanding the focus on short term chartering, we consistently monitor the drybulk shipping market and, based on market conditions, will consider taking advantage of long-term time charters on our owned fleet at higher rates when appropriate.

(3)Maintain high quality vessels and improve standards of operation through improved standards and procedures, crew training and repair and maintenance procedures.

Business Outlook

COVID-19

In March 2020, the World Health Organization (the "WHO") declared COVID-19 to be a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic, has had, and continues to have, widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts on global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. Governments have implemented measures such as social distancing, mask and vaccine mandates, travel restrictions, COVID testing guidelines and quarantine regulations. These measures taken to slow the spread of COVID-19 led to a significant short-term slowdown in the worldwide economic activity and decline in demand for drybulk cargoes. This impacted charter rates and shipping revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020.

In 2021, drybulk trade increased by 3.8% compared to a decrease of 1.6% in 2020, as measured in metric tons of cargo. This was a result of increased demand for nearly all drybulk cargoes compared to 2020, which was severely restricted by lockdowns, travel restrictions, and other economic shocks from the COVID-19 pandemic. Of particular note, coal demand experienced a strong rebound due to both the general effects of the economic recovery and due to high natural gas prices, leading to commodity substitutions. The BSI averaged $26,768 for 2021, compared to $8,189 for 2020, which represents the highest BSI index level since 2008.

The Company continued to experienced delays in cargo operations due to port restrictions and additional protocols. Our crew on our ships were exposed to risk of exposure to COVID-19. The travel restrictions imposed at various ports severely impeded our crew rotation plans during the year. We experienced some disruptions to our normal vessel operations and incurred additional off-hire time due to deviations our vessels had to take to allow for crew changes. As a result of the spread of COVID-19, the Company incurred some additional expenses relating to procurement of personal protective equipment, COVID-19 testing, and crew travel, which is included in our vessel operating expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021. Additionally, the Company experienced some delays in operations, drydocking and BWTS installations as a result of protocols regarding COVID-19, as well as limitations on labor. We also experienced loss of revenues due to a number of off-hire days relating to crew changes and quarantine restrictions as a number of our crew members tested

positive for COVID-19 during 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we incurred 115 days of off-hire related to crew changes. For additional discussion regarding the impact of COVID-19, see "-Liquidity and Capital Resources- Summary of Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 1A Risk Factors."

While the average BSI was at $22,718 per day as of March 9, 2022, the economic activity levels as well as the demand for drybulk cargoes may be negatively impacted by COVID-19. We have instituted measures to reduce the risk of spread of COVID-19 for our crew members on our vessels as well as our onshore offices in Stamford, Connecticut, Singapore, and Copenhagen. However, if the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact the global economy on a prolonged basis, or vaccination program goes slower than expected, the rate environment in the drybulk market and our vessel values may deteriorate and our operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted as well as our ability to meet the debt covenants under our existing debt facility.

The impact of recent developments in Ukraine

In February 2022, as a result of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, economic sanctions were imposed by the U.S., the European Union, the United Kingdom and a number of other countries on Russian financial institutions, businesses and individuals, as well as certain regions within the Donbas region of Ukraine. While it is difficult to estimate the impact of current or future sanctions on the Company's business and financial position, these sanctions could adversely impact the Company's operations. In the near term, we expect increased volatility in the region due to these geopolitical events. The Black Sea region is a major export market for grains with the Ukraine and Russia exporting a combined 15% of the global seaborne grain trade. While uncertainty remains with respect to the ultimate impact of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, we anticipate seeing significant changes in trade flows. A reduction or stoppage of grain out of the Black Sea or cargoes from Russia will negatively impact the markets in those areas. At the same time, it is possible for us to see an increase in ton miles as end users find alternative sources for cargo. For more information regarding the risks relating to economic sanctions as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine as well as the impact on retaining and sourcing our crew, see Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" - If our vessels call on ports located in countries or territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions imposed by the UN, the United States, the EU or other relevant authorities, or if we are found to be in violation of sanctions, there could be an adverse effect on our reputation, business position, financial condition or results of operations, or the market for our common shares; see also Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" - The conflict between Russia and Ukraine may impact our ability to retain and source crew, and in turn, could adversely affect our revenue, expenses, and profitability.

Market Overview

The international shipping industry is highly competitive and fragmented with no single owner accounting for more than 2.6% of the on-the-water drybulk fleet, measured by vessel count. As of December 31, 2021, there are approximately 12,700 drybulk vessels over 10,000 dwt totaling 945 million dwt. We compete with other owners of drybulk vessels, primarily in the Supramax/Ultramax segment and (to a lesser extent) the Handysize and Panamax segments. Many of our competitors are privately-held companies.

Competition in the shipping industry varies according to the nature of the contractual relationship as well as the specific commodity being shipped. Our business will fluctuate as a result of changes in the supply and demand for drybulk commodities and also the main patterns of trade in these commodities. Competition in virtually all bulk trades is intense and based primarily on supply of ships and demand for our ocean transportation services. We compete for charters on the basis of price, vessel location, size, age, and condition of the vessel, as well as on our reputation as an owner and operator. Increasingly, major customers are demonstrating a preference for modern vessels based on concerns about the environmental and operational risks associated with older vessels. Consequently, owners of large modern fleets have gained a competitive advantage over owners of older fleets.

Our strategy is to focus on the Supramax/Ultramax asset class, defined as drybulk vessels that range in size from approximately 50,000 to 65,000 dwt. These vessels have the cargo loading and unloading flexibility offered by their on-board cranes, while the cargo carrying capacity approaches that of Panamax, which ranges in size between 65,000 and 100,000 dwt but which require onshore facilities to load and offload their cargoes. We believe that the cargo handling flexibility and cargo carrying capacity of the Supramax/Ultramax class makes it the preferred type of

ship attractive to potential charterers. As of December 31, 2021, all of our owned vessels range in size between 50,000 and 64,000 dwt.

The supply of drybulk vessels depends primarily on the size of the orderbook and the scrapping of older or less efficient vessels. During 2021, fleet growth decreased slightly to 3.6% in 2021 from 3.8% in 2020. In 2021, vessels totaling 37.9 million dwt were delivered, a decrease of 11.0 million dwt from 2020. Scrapping in 2021 totaled 5.1 million dwt, a decrease of 10.2 million dwt from 2020.

The typical trading life of a Supramax/Ultramax vessel is approximately 25 years. As of December 2021, 11% of the world's drybulk fleet (by vessel count) was 20 years or older.

Fleet Growth for 2022 is expected to continue at low levels of 2.0% for the drybulk fleet and 2.9% for Supramax/Ultramax vessels. The orderbook as of January 2022 stands at approximately 7.0% of the total drybulk fleet, with the orderbook for the Supramax/Ultramax segment at 6.5% of the on-the-water fleet, with both figures at or near the smallest orderbook in approximately 30 years. As of January 2022, the IMF forecasted world GDP growth at 4.4% for 2022, as the global economy continues to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Drybulk trade is expected to grow by approximately 1.7% in 2022 on continuing modest levels of growth across most drybulk commodities.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP" or "GAAP"). The preparation of the financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.

Critical accounting policies are those that reflect significant judgments of uncertainties and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. We have described below what we believe are our most critical accounting policies, because they generally involve a comparatively higher degree of judgment in their application. For a description of all our accounting policies, see Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements included herein.

Revenue Recognition

Revenues are generated from time charters and voyage charters. Time charter revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective time charter agreements as service is provided. Voyage revenues for cargo transportation are recognized ratably over the estimated relative transit time of each voyage. Voyage revenue is deemed to commence upon the commencement of loading of the charterer's cargo and is deemed to end upon the completion of discharge of the cargo, provided the charter rate is fixed and determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. The costs incurred during the period prior to commencement of loading the cargo, primarily bunkers, are deferred as they represent setup costs and recorded as a current asset and are amortized on a straight-line basis as the related performance obligations are satisfied.

Revenue is based on contracted charter parties, including spot-market related time charters for which rates fluctuate based on changes in the spot market. However, there is always the possibility of dispute over terms and payment of hires and freights. In particular, disagreements may arise as to the responsibility for third party costs incurred by the customer and revenue due to us as a result. Additionally, there are certain performance parameters included in contracted charter parties, which if not met, can result in customer claims.

On January 1, 2020, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-13,Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,(or "ASC 326"). The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses for expected uncollectible accounts receivable, which is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable and changes in such are classified as voyage expense in the Consolidated Statements of

Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Upon adoption of ASC 326, the Company assessed collectability by reviewing accounts receivable on a collective basis where similar characteristics exist and on an individual basis when we identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, the Company considered historical collectability based on past due status and made judgments about the creditworthiness of customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. The Company also considered customer-specific information, current market conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions to inform adjustments to historical loss data. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our assessment considered business and market disruptions caused by COVID-19 and estimates of expected emerging credit and collectability trends. The continued volatility in market conditions and evolving shifts in credit trends are difficult to predict causing variability and volatility that may have a material impact on our allowance for credit losses in future periods.

Vessel Lives and Impairment

The Company estimates the useful life of the Company's vessels to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard to the original owner. In addition, the Company estimates the scrap rate to be $300 per lwt, to compute each vessel's residual value, which is based on the 15-year average scrap value of steel.

The carrying values of the Company's vessels may not represent their fair market value at any point in time since the market prices of second-hand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in charter rates and the cost of new buildings. Historically, both charter rates and vessel values tend to be cyclical. The volatility in the drybulk market is heavily impacted by growth rate and demand for commodities such as coal and iron ore in the world economy and Chinese economy in particular. We evaluate the carrying amounts and periods over which long-lived assets are depreciated to determine if events have occurred which would require modification to their carrying values or useful lives. In evaluating useful lives and carrying values of long-lived assets, we review certain indicators of potential impairment, such as carrying value of the vessels lower than their fair market value, vessel sales, business plans and overall market conditions.

If indicators of impairment are present, we perform an analysis of the undiscounted projected net operating cash flows for each vessel and compare it to the vessel's carrying value. This assessment is made at the individual vessel level since we can separately identify cash flow information for each vessel. In developing estimates of future cash flows, the Company must make assumptions about future charter rates, vessel operating expenses, and the estimated remaining useful lives of the vessels. These assumptions are based on historical trends as well as future expectations. The Company annually reviews all the assumptions that are used in the calculation of projected net operating cash flows. Specifically, we utilize the rates currently in effect for the duration of their current charters. Based on our annual review of assumptions, for periods of time where our vessels are not fixed on charters, we utilized an estimated daily time charter equivalent for our vessels' unfixed days based on a historical average of the last fifteen years of one and three years' time charter rates as published by a third party. Historically, the Company utilized the 25 year average of one and three year time charters for the unfixed days of the remaining useful life in its impairment analysis. This is considered a change in accounting estimate and it was done primarily to closely align with our peers and also based on our annual evaluation of assumptions used in the undiscounted projected net operating cash flows analysis, we believe that the 15 year average is more representative of future rate environment for our vessels. The change in accounting estimate did not have any impact on the impairment analysis and the consolidated financial statements.

The undiscounted projected net operating cash flows are determined by considering the future charter revenues from the existing charters for the fixed fleet days and for the unfixed days, projected FFA rates up to 2023 and an estimated daily time charter equivalent over the estimated remaining life of the vessel, assumed to be 25 years from the delivery of the vessel from the shipyard, reduced by commissions, expected outflows for vessels' maintenance and vessel operating expenses (including planned drydocking and special survey expenditures) and any planned capital expenditures such as scrubbers and BWTS.

The Company evaluated if any impairment indicators existed as of December 31, 2021. Based on the evaluation, the Company determined that there were no impairment indicators for our vessels in the Company's fleet for which the

average vessel prices based on vessel valuations received from third party brokers were greater than their carrying values. The Company determined that there were no impairment indicators and no further impairment analysis was required.

Of the inputs that the Company uses for its impairment analysis, future time charter rates are the most significant and most volatile. We utilize historical averages as discussed above in our impairment tests due to the highly cyclical nature of the drybulk shipping industry. Our vessels range from very new to eighteen years old, and we believe that utilizing rates over a long period of time incorporates numerous shipping cycles and reflects our strategy of operating our vessels over a long time period, and in line with the overall useful economic life of our vessels. As disclosed elsewhere herein, we also consider whether utilizing ten or five year averages would impact our impairment assessment. Our vessels remain fully utilized and have a relatively long average remaining useful life of approximately 16 years in which to provide sufficient cash flows on an undiscounted basis to recover their carrying values as of December 31, 2021. Management will continue to monitor developments in charter rates in our participatory markets with respect to the expectation of future rates over an extended period.

As of December 31, 2016, as part of our fleet renewal program, management considered it probable that we would divest some of our older vessels as well as certain less efficient vessels from its fleet to achieve operating cost savings. Based on our projected undiscounted cash flows prior to sale, factoring the probability of sale, such vessels were determined to be impaired, and written down to their current fair value as of December 31, 2016, which was determined by obtaining broker quotes from two unaffiliated ship brokers. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $122.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. The carrying value of these vessels prior to impairment was $234.9 million. In addition to the above, in 2015, we identified six vessels as probable sales, and recognized an impairment charge in 2015 of $50.9 million. As the value of such vessels further declined in the first quarter of 2016, we recorded an additional impairment charge of $6.2 million in that quarter. All vessels identified as probable sales in 2015 have been sold as of December 31, 2021. Out of the sixteen vessels impaired in 2016, fourteen vessels have been sold as of December 31, 2021.

Although management believes that the assumptions used to evaluate potential impairment are reasonable and appropriate, such assumptions are highly subjective. In the event that any future impairment were to occur, we would determine the fair value of the related asset and record a charge to operations calculated by comparing the asset's carrying value to its estimated fair value. We estimate fair value primarily through the use of third party valuations performed on an individual vessel basis. Such valuations are not necessarily the same as the amount any vessel may bring upon sale, which may be more or less, and should not be relied upon as such.

The table set forth below indicates the carrying value of each of our vessels as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. We believe, based on broker quotes recently obtained, our vessels have a basic charter free market value greater than its carrying value by approximately $289.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, and a basic charter free market value lower than its carrying value by approximately $223.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Please note that the carrying values of vessels sold during the year 2021 have been excluded from the table. When the carrying value exceeds the basic charter free market value, the difference represents the approximate amount by which we believe we would have to adjust our net income if we sold all of such vessels, excluding commissions, on industry standard terms, in cash transactions, and to a willing buyer where we are not under any compulsion to sell, and where the buyer is not under any compulsion to buy.

Drybulk Vessels  Dwt(in thousands) YearPurchased Carrying Value*as of December 31, 2021 Carrying Value*as of December 31, 2020
Antwerp Eagle    63.5              2015          $21.5 million                          -
Bittern          57.8              2009          $16.4 million                          $17.4 million *
Canary           57.8              2009          $16.3 million                          $17.3 million *
Cape Town Eagle  63.7              2015          $20.1 million                          $20.9 million *
Cardinal         55.4              2004          $5.8 million                           $6.2 million
Copenhagen Eagle 63.5              2015          $19.3 million                          $20.1 million *
Crane             57.8 2010 $17.5 million $18.5 million *
Crested Eagle     56.0 2009 $18.6 million $19.8 million *
Crowned Eagle     55.9 2008 $17.7 million $18.9 million *
Dublin Eagle      63.5 2015 $19.2 million $20.0 million *
Egret Bulker      57.8 2010 $17.2 million $18.2 million *
Fairfield Eagle   63.3 2013 $16.9 million $17.7 million *
Gannet Bulker     57.8 2010 $17.3 million $18.2 million *
Golden Eagle      56.0 2010 $19.8 million $21.1 million *
Grebe Bulker      57.8 2010 $17.5 million $17.8 million *
Greenwich Eagle   63.3 2013 $16.7 million $17.5 million *
Groton Eagle      63.3 2013 $16.9 million $17.4 million *
Hamburg Eagle     63.3 2014 $20.9 million $21.9 million *
Helsinki Eagle    63.6 2015 $16.3 million -
Hong Kong Eagle   63.5 2016 $20.8 million $21.7 million *
Ibis Bulker       57.8 2010 $16.9 million $17.8 million *
Imperial Eagle    56.0 2010 $19.7 million $20.9 million *
Jaeger            52.5 2004 $5.5 million  $5.8 million
Jay               57.8 2010 $16.9 million $17.9 million *
Kingfisher        57.8 2010 $17.3 million $18.3 million *
Madison Eagle     63.3 2013 $17.0 million $17.8 million *
Martin            57.8 2010 $17.2 million $18.2 million *
Montauk Eagle     58.0 2011 $9.8 million  -
Mystic Eagle      63.3 2013 $16.6 million $17.4 million *
New London Eagle  63.1 2015 $21.6 million $21.8 million *
Newport Eagle     58.0 2011 $7.7 million  -
Nighthawk         57.8 2011 $17.8 million $18.8 million *
Oriole            57.8 2011 $18.2 million $18.6 million *
Oslo Eagle        63.7 2015 $15.7 million -
Owl               57.8 2011 $18.3 million $18.8 million *
Petrel Bulker     57.8 2011 $18.2 million $18.7 million *
Puffin Bulker     57.8 2011 $17.8 million $18.7 million *
Roadrunner Bulker 57.8 2011 $18.6 million $18.8 million *
Rotterdam Eagle   63.6 2017 $18.6 million -
Rowayton Eagle    63.3 2013 $16.8 million $17.6 million *
Sandpiper Bulker  57.8 2011 $17.8 million $18.7 million *
Sankaty Eagle     58.0 2011 $10.1 million -
Santos Eagle      63.5 2015 $19.3 million $20.1 million *
Shanghai Eagle    63.4 2016 $20.8 million $21.7 million *
Singapore Eagle   63.4 2017 $18.3 million $18.9 million
Southport Eagle   63.3 2013 $16.8 million $17.6 million *
Stamford Eagle    61.5 2016 $15.8 million $16.3 million
Stellar Eagle     56.0 2009 $19.0 million $19.8 million *
Stockholm Eagle   63.3 2016 $17.6 million -
Stonington Eagle 63.3 2012 $17.1 million $17.8 million *
Sydney Eagle     63.5 2015 $19.3 million $20.1 million *
Valencia Eagle   63.6 2015 $20.2 million -
Westport Eagle   63.3 2015 $17.4 million $18.0 million *
*Indicates drybulk carriers for which we believe the basic charter-free market value is lower than the vessel's carrying value.

Deferred Drydock Cost

There are two methods that are used by the shipping industry to account for drydockings: (a) the deferral method where drydock costs are deferred when incurred and amortized over the period to the next scheduled drydock; and (b) expensing drydocking costs in the period it is incurred. We use the deferral method of accounting for drydock expenses. Under the deferral method, drydock expenses are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis until the next drydock, which we estimate to be a period of two and a half to five years. We believe the deferral method better matches costs with revenue than expensing the costs as incurred. We use judgment when estimating the period between drydock performed, which can result in adjustments to the estimated amortization of drydock expense. If the vessel is disposed of before the next drydock, the remaining balance in deferred drydock is written-off to the gain or loss upon disposal of vessels in the period when contracted. We expect that our vessels will be required to be drydocked approximately every 60 months for vessels younger than 15 years and 30 months for vessels older than 15 years.

Costs deferred as part of the drydocking include direct costs that are incurred as part of the drydocking to meet regulatory requirements. During drydocking, we capitalize into the cost basis of the vessel any expenditures that add economic life to the vessel, increase the vessel's earnings capacity or improve the vessel's efficiency. Expenditures for normal maintenance and repairs, whether incurred as part of the drydocking or not, are expensed as incurred. Unamortized drydocking costs are written off as drydocking expense if the vessels are drydocked earlier than the applicable amortization period. Unamortized drydocking costs of vessels that are sold are written off and included in the calculation of the resulting gain or loss in the year of the vessels' sale.

Vessel acquisition

Where we identify any intangible assets or liabilities associated with the acquisition of a vessel, we record all identified tangible and intangible assets or liabilities at fair value. Fair value is determined by reference to market data and the amount of expected future cash flows. We value any asset or liability arising from the market value of the time charters assumed when an acquired vessel is delivered to us.

Where we have assumed an existing charter obligation or enter into a time charter with the existing charterer in connection with the purchase of a vessel at charter rates that are less than market charter rates, we record a liability in fair value below contract value of time charters acquired based on the difference between the assumed charter rate and the market charter rate for an equivalent vessel. Conversely, where we assume an existing charter obligation or enter into a time charter with the existing charterer in connection with the purchase of a vessel at charter rates that are above market charter rates, we record an asset in fair value above contract value of time charters acquired, based on the difference between the market charter rate and the contracted charter rate for an equivalent vessel. This determination is made at the time the vessel is delivered to us, and such assets and liabilities are amortized to revenue over the remaining period of the charter. The determination of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires us to make significant assumptions and estimates of many variables including market charter rates, expected future charter rates, future vessel operation expenses, the level of utilization of our vessels and our weighted average cost of capital. The use of different assumptions could result in a material change in the fair value of these items, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. In the event that the market charter rates relating to the acquired vessels are lower than the contracted charter rates at the time of their respective deliveries to us, our net earnings for the remainder of the terms of the charters may be adversely affected although our cash flows will not be affected.

Results of operationsfor years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020

This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2021 and 2020 results and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. A discussion of 2020 results of operations compared to 2019 has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but may be found in "Part II, Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on March 12, 2021.

Net Income/(Loss)

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company reported net income of $184.9 million, or basic and diluted income of $14.91 per share and $11.79 per share, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company reported a net loss of $35.1 million, or $3.40 per basic and diluted share. The net income/(loss) for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are the result of the items described below.

Factors Affecting our Results of Operations

The following tables represent the operating data and certain financial statement data for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 on a consolidated basis.

We believe that the important measures for analyzing future trends in our results of operations consist of the following:

                  For the Years Ended
                  December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Ownership days    18,258            18,065
Chartered-in days 2,331             2,179
Available days    19,538            19,612
Operating days    19,439            19,450
Fleet utilization 99.5%             99.2%
•Ownership days: We define ownership days as the aggregate number of days in a period during which each vessel in our fleet has been owned by us. Ownership days are an indicator of the size of our fleet over a period and affect both the amount of revenues and the amount of expenses that we record during a period.

•Chartered-in days: We define chartered-in days as the aggregate number of days in a period during which the Company chartered-in vessels.

•Available days:We define available days as the number of our ownership days and chartered-in days less the aggregate number of days that our vessels are off-hire due to vessel familiarization upon acquisition, repairs, vessel upgrades or special surveys and other reasons which prevent the vessel from performing under the relevant charter party such as surveys, medical events, stowaway disembarkation, etc. The shipping industry uses available days to measure the number of days in a period during which vessels should be capable of generating revenues. We completed drydock for 11 vessels during 2021 and two vessels were in drydock as of December 31, 2021 and 11 vessels completed drydock during 2020.

•Operating days:We define operating days as the number of our available days in a period less the aggregate number of days that our vessels are off-hire due to any reason, including unforeseen circumstances. The shipping industry uses operating days to measure the aggregate number of days in a period during which vessels actually generate revenues.

•Fleet utilization:We calculate fleet utilization by dividing the number of our operating days during a period by the number of our available days during the period. The shipping industry uses fleet utilization to

measure a company's efficiency in finding suitable employment for its vessels and minimizing the amount of days that its vessels are off-hire for reasons other than scheduled repairs or repairs under guarantee, vessel upgrades, special surveys or vessel positioning. Our fleet continues to perform at very high utilization rates.

Time Charter and Voyage Revenue

Shipping revenues are highly sensitive to patterns of supply and demand for vessels of the size and design configurations owned and operated by a company and the trades in which those vessels operate. In the drybulk sector of the shipping industry, rates for the transportation of drybulk cargoes such as ores, grains, steel, fertilizers, and similar commodities, are determined by market forces such as the supply and demand for such commodities, the distance that cargoes must be transported, and the number of vessels available or expected to be available at the time such cargoes need to be transported. The demand for shipments is significantly affected by the state of the global economy and in discrete geographical areas. The number of vessels is affected by newbuilding deliveries and by the removal of existing vessels from service, principally due to scrapping.

The mix of charters between voyage charters and time charters also affects revenues. Because the mix between voyage charters and time charters significantly affects shipping revenues and voyage expenses, vessel revenues are benchmarked based on net charter hire income. Net charter hire income comprises revenue from vessels operating on time charters, and voyage revenue less voyage expenses from vessels operating on voyage charters in the spot market and charter hire expenses. Net charter hire income serves as a measure of analyzing fluctuations between financial periods and as a method of equating revenue generated from a voyage charter to time charter revenue.

The following table represents the reconciliation of Net charter hire income, a non-GAAP measure, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

                        For the Years Ended
                        December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Revenues, net           $                 594,537,654 $  275,133,547
Less:
Voyage expenses         104,643,078       89,548,796
Charter hire expenses   37,101,692        21,280,224
Net charter hire income $                 452,792,884 $  164,304,527
                        

% of Net charter hire from
Time charters           61                %           52 %
Voyage charters         39                %           48 %
Our economic decisions are primarily based on anticipated net charter hire rates and we evaluate financial performance based on net charter rates achieved. Our revenues are driven primarily by the number of vessels in our fleet, the number of days during which our vessels operate and the net charter hire that our vessels earn under charters, which, in turn, are affected by a number of factors, including:

•the duration of our charters;

•our decisions relating to vessel acquisitions and disposals;

•the amount of time that we spend positioning our vessels;

•the amount of time that our vessels spend in drydock undergoing repairs;

•maintenance and upgrade work;

•the age, condition and specifications of our vessels;

•levels of supply and demand in the drybulk shipping industry; and

•other factors affecting spot market charter rates for drybulk carriers.

Our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were earned from time and voyage charters. As is common in the shipping industry, we pay commissions ranging from 1.25% to 5.00% of the total daily charter hire rate of each charter to unaffiliated ship brokers and in-house brokers associated with the charterers, depending on the number of brokers involved with arranging the charter. We record such broker commissions as voyage expenses.

Revenues, net

Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $594.5 million, an increase of 116% compared to the prior year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in charter hire rates as rates recovered from the economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, partly offset by a decrease in available days. The available days including chartered-in days for the year ended December 31, 2021 were 19,538 as compared to 19,612 for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Voyage expenses

To the extent that we employ our vessels on voyage charters, we incur expenses that include but are not limited to bunkers, port charges and canal tolls, as these expenses are borne by the vessel owner on voyage charters. Bunkers, port charges, and canal toll expenses primarily increase in periods during which more vessels are employed on voyage charters.

Voyage expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $104.6 million, compared with $89.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Voyage expenses have primarily increased due to an increase in bunker consumption expense, an increase in broker commission expense and an increase in port expenses.

Vessel operating expenses

Vessel operating expenses include expenses relating to crewing costs, vessel operations, general vessel maintenance, regulatory and classification society compliance, insurance, repairs, stores, supplies, spare parts, and technical consultants.

Vessel operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $103.9 million, compared with $86.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.The increase in vessel operating expenses is primarily attributable to an increase in lubes expense, an increase in stores and spares delivery costs, crew wages, and crew changes due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and vessel start-up expenses as the Company purchased and took delivery of nine vessels during 2021.The ownership days for the year ended December 31, 2021 were 18,258 compared to 18,065 for the prior year ended December 31, 2020.

We believe daily vessel operating expenses are a good measure for comparative purposes over a 12-month period in order to take into account all of the expenses that each vessel in our fleet will incur over a full year of operation.

Average daily vessel operating expenses for our fleet for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $5,689 as compared to $4,790 for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Insurance expense varies with overall insurance market conditions as well as the insured's loss record, level of insurance and desired coverage. The main insurance expenses include hull and machinery insurance (i.e. asset insurance) costs, loss of hire insurance, Protection, and Indemnity ("P&I") insurance (i.e. liability insurance) costs. Certain other insurances, such as basic war risk premiums based on voyages into designated war risk areas are often for the account of the charterers for time charter voyages and on owners' account for voyage charters.

Our vessel operating expenses, which generally represent costs under the vessel operating budgets, cost of insurance and vessel registry and other regulatory fees, will increase with the enlargement of our fleet. Other factors beyond our control, some of which may affect the shipping industry in general, may also cause these expenses to increase, including, for instance, developments relating to market prices for crew, insurance, lubricants, and supplies.

Charter hire expense

Charter hire expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $37.1 million compared to $21.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in charter hire expenses in 2021 compared with 2020 was mainly due to an increase in charter hire rates due to improvement in the charter hire market and an increase in the number of chartered-in days. The chartered-in days for 2021 were 2,331 compared to 2,179 in 2020. Between 2017 and 2021, the Company entered into a series of agreements to charter five Ultramax vessels on a long term basis. The minimum chartered-in periods ranged between one and four years with an option to extend the duration between three and 24 months. Four and three of those five vessels were chartered-in as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The remaining vessel will be delivered during the second quarter of 2022.

Depreciation and amortization

We depreciate the cost of our vessels on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of each vessel. Depreciation is based on the cost of the vessel less its estimated residual value. We estimate the useful life of our vessels to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard to the original owner. We estimate the scrap rate to be $300/lwt to compute each vessel's residual value.

Depreciation and amortization expenses for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $53.5 million and $50.2 million, respectively. The increase in depreciation expense is due to an increase in the cost base of our owned fleet due to the capitalization of scrubbers and BWTS on our vessels, and the acquisition of nine vessels in 2021, offset by the sale of five vessels in the third and fourth quarters of 2020 and the sale of one vessel in the third quarter of 2021. The increase in drydock amortization is due to the completion of eleven additional drydocks since the end of 2020. Total depreciation and amortization expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes $44.9 million of vessel and other fixed asset depreciation and $8.7 million of deferred drydocking amortization. Total depreciation and amortization expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes $42.8 million of vessel and other fixed asset depreciation and $7.4 million of amortization of deferred drydocking costs.

Drydocking relates to our regularly scheduled maintenance program necessary to preserve the quality of our vessels as well as to comply with international shipping standards and environmental laws and regulations. Management anticipates that vessels are to be drydocked every two and a half years for vessels older than 15 years and every five years for vessels younger than 15 years, accordingly, these expenses are deferred and amortized over that period.

General and administrative expenses

Our general and administrative expenses include legal, professional expenses, recurring administrative and other expenses including payroll and expenses relating to our executive officers and office staff, office rent, directors fees, and directors and officers insurance. General and administrative expenses also include stock-based compensation expenses.

General and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $35.2 million and $31.5 million, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses in 2021 was primarily due to an increase in legal expenses, compensation and benefits and an increase in stock-based compensation expense.

General and administrative expenses include stock-based compensation charges of $3.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. These stock-based compensation charges relate to the stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based stock awards granted to certain members of management, employees, and certain directors of the Company under the 2016 Plan. The stock-based compensation expense is higher primarily due to higher stock grants during the year. Please see Note 13, Stock Incentive Plans, to the consolidated financial statements.

Other operating expense

Other operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $2.8 million, with no comparable amount for the year ended December 31, 2020. In March 2021, the U.S. government began investigating an allegation that one of our vessels may have improperly disposed of ballast water that entered the engine room bilges during a repair. The Company posted a surety bond as security for any fines, penalties or other associated costs. Other operating expense consists of expenses incurred relating to this incident, which include legal fees, surety bond expenses, vessel off-hire, crew changes and travel costs.

(Gain)/loss on sale of vessels

For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded a gain of $4.0 million and a loss of $0.5 million, respectively. The gain for the year ended December 31, 2021, includes a gain on the sale of the vessel Tern. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2020, includes a loss on the sale of five vessels - Goldeneye, Shrike, Skua, Osprey I and Hawk I.

Interest expense

Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $32.3 million and $35.4 million, respectively. The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to a decrease in outstanding debt and lower interest rates due to the refinancing of the Company's debt in the fourth quarter of 2021.

Amortization of debt issuance costs is included in interest expense. These financing costs relate to costs associated with our various outstanding debt facilities. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the amortization of debt issuance costs was $7.1 million and $6.3 million, respectively. The interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 includes $4.1 million and $3.9 million, respectively, of interest expense representing the amortization of the equity component of the Convertible Bond Debt. Please refer to Note 6, Debt, to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net

Realized and unrealized loss on derivative instruments, net for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $38.2 million compared to a realized and unrealized gain on derivatives instruments, net of $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in realized and unrealized losses on derivative instruments was primarily due to the sharp increase in charter hire rates. Please refer to Note 7, Derivative Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Loss on debt extinguishment

Loss on debt extinguishment for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $6.1 million, with no comparable amount for the year ended December 31, 2020. On October 18, 2021, the Company repaid the outstanding debt together with accrued interest as of that date under the Norwegian Bond Debt and discharged the debt in full from the proceeds of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility and cash on hand. As a result, the Company recognized $1.6 million representing the outstanding balance of debt discount and debt issuance costs, as well as a $4.4 million call premium on the Norwegian Bond Debt as a loss on debt extinguishment in the fourth quarter of 2021. During the third quarter of 2021, the Company cancelled the Super Senior Facility. There was no outstanding debt under the Super Senior Facility. The Company recognized $0.1 million representing the outstanding balance of debt issuance costs as a loss on debt extinguishment. Please see Note 6, Debt, to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Selected Financial Data

The selected financial data presented below have been derived in part from, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements

(Dollars, Shares, and Weighted average shares outstanding amounts in thousands except Per Share amounts and Fleet Data)

Income Statement Data                                              2021      2020    2019      2018     2017
Revenues, net                                                      $         594,538 $         275,134  $ 292,378  $ 310,094 $ 236,785
Voyage expenses                                                    104,643   89,549  87,701    79,566   62,351
Vessel operating expenses                                          103,877   86,528  82,342    81,336   78,607
Charter hire expenses                                              37,102    21,280  42,169    38,046   31,284
Depreciation and amortization                                      53,517    50,157  40,546    37,717   33,691
General and administrative expenses                                35,161    31,532  35,042    36,157   33,126
Other operating expense(1)                                         2,812     -       1,125     -        -
Impairment of operating lease right-of-use assets(2)               -         352     -         -        -
(Gain)/loss on sale of vessels                                     (3,966)   490     (5,979)   (335)    (2,135)
Total operating expenses, net                                      333,146   279,888 282,947   272,487  236,925
                                                                   

Interest expense                                                   32,257    35,393  30,577    25,744   29,377
Interest income                                                    (92)      (257)   (1,867)   (585)    (651)
Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net 38,244    (4,827) 150       (126)    (38)
Loss on debt extinguishment(3)                                     6,085     -       2,268     -        14,969
Net income/(loss)                                                  $         184,898 $         (35,063) $ (21,697) $ 12,575  $ (43,797)
                                                                   

Share and Per Share Data
Basic net income/(loss) per share(4)                               $         14.91   $         (3.40)   $ (2.13)   $ 1.25    $ (4.43)
Diluted net income/(loss) per share(4)                             $         11.79   $         (3.40)   $ (2.13)   $ 1.23    $ (4.43)
Weighted average shares outstanding - Basic(4)                     12,400    10,310  10,195    10,095   9,883
Weighted average shares outstanding - Diluted(4)                   15,684    10,310  10,195    10,257   9,883
                                                                   

Consolidated Cash Flow Data
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities                $         209,171 $         12,595   $ 21,686   $ 45,470  $ (10,037)
Net cash used in investing activities                              (125,481) (5,492) (168,619) (31,014) (155,250)
Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities                (86,317)  22,615  127,900   7,381    145,022
(1)In March 2021, the U.S. government began investigating an allegation that one of our vessels may have improperly disposed of ballast water that entered the engine room bilges during a repair. The Company posted a surety bond as security for any fines, penalties or other associated costs. Other operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 consists of expenses incurred relating to this incident, which include legal fees, surety bond expenses, vessel off-hire, crew changes and travel costs. Other operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $1.1 million. The expense relates to our legal settlement with OFAC.

(2)During the second quarter of 2020, the Company determined that there were impairment indicators present for one of our chartered-in vessel contracts and, as a result, we recorded an operating lease impairment of $0.4 million.

(3)On October 18, 2021, the Company repaid the outstanding debt together with accrued interest as of that date under the Norwegian Bond Debt and discharged the debt in full using the proceeds of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility and cash on hand. As a result, the Company recognized $6.0 million representing a bond call premium and the outstanding balance of debt discount and debt issuance costs, as Loss on debt extinguishment in the fourth quarter of 2021. See Note 6, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements.

During the third quarter of 2021, the Company cancelled the Super Senior Revolving Facility. There were no outstanding amounts under the facility and the Company recorded $0.1 million as Loss on debt extinguishment in the third quarter of 2021. Please see Note 6, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements.

On January 25, 2019, the Company repaid the outstanding debt together with accrued interest as of that date under the New First Lien Facility and the Original Ultraco Debt Facility and discharged the debt in full from the proceeds of the New Ultraco Debt Facility. As a result, the Company recognized $2.3 million representing the outstanding balance of debt issuance costs, as a loss on debt extinguishment in the first quarter of 2019. Please see Note 6, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements.

On December 8, 2017, the Company repaid the amounts outstanding under the First Lien Facility and the Second Lien Facility by issuance of $200.0 million of the Norwegian Bond Debt and $65.0 million of the New First Lien Facility. As a result, the Company recognized a $15.0 million loss on debt extinguishment in the fourth quarter of 2017.

(4)Adjusted to give effect for the 1-for-7 Reverse Stock Split that became effective as of September 15, 2020, see Note 1, General Information, to the consolidated financial statements.

December 31,
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data                 2021      2020    2019      2018    2017
Current assets                                  $         156,033 $         118,265 $ 100,533 $ 118,474 $ 105,223
Total assets                                    1,126,658 967,127 1,002,087 846,209 808,350
Total liabilities                               455,392   496,709 520,584   366,603 347,185
Current portion of long-term debt(a)            49,800    39,244  35,709    29,176  4,000
Long-term debt                                  330,244   412,931 410,067   301,583 313,684
Stockholders' equity(b)                         671,266   470,418 481,503   479,606 461,165
Other Data
Capital expenditures:
Vessels and vessel improvements                 $         128,254 $         4,230   $ 143,478 $ 43,444  $ 176,603
Purchase of scrubbers and ballast water systems 6,712     28,377  58,196    12,342  -
Drydocking expenditures                         21,906    14,294  11,903    8,323   2,579
Ratio of Total debt to Total capitalization(c)  36.1%     49.0%   48.1%     40.8%   40.8%
Fleet Data
Number of vessels in owned fleet                53        45      50        47      47
Average age of fleet (years)                    9.3       8.8     8.7       9.0     8.2
Fleet ownership days                            18,258    18,065  16,945    17,213  16,293
Charter-in days                                 2,331     2,179   3,583     3,294   3,353
Fleet available days                            19,538    19,612  19,214    20,083  19,245
Fleet operating days                            19,439    19,450  19,058    19,921  19,140
Fleet utilization                               99.5%     99.2%   99.2%     99.2%   99.5%
(a)The 2021 amount represents $49.8 million under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility to be repaid in 2022.

(b)Effective as of September 15, 2020, the Company completed the 1-for-7 Reverse Stock Split of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share. All references herein to common stock and per share data for all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. See Note 1, General Information, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

(c)Ratio of Total debt to Total capitalization was calculated as debt divided by capitalization (debt plus stockholders' equity).

Effects of Inflation

The Company believes that its business benefits during periods of elevated inflation and positive demand growth, as higher charter rates, and net revenues, more than offset increases in costs relating to vessel operating expenses, drydocking, and general and administrative.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following table presents the cash flow information for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

                                                                    For the Years Ended
(in thousands of U.S. dollars)                                      December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Net cash provided by operating activities                           $                 209,171 $ 12,595
Net cash used in investing activities                               (125,481)         (5,492)
Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities                 (86,317)          22,615
                                                                    

(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents                    (2,627)           29,718
Cash, cash equivalents including restricted cash, beginning of year 88,849            59,130
                                                                    

Cash and cash equivalents including restricted cash, end of year    $                 86,222  $ 88,849
Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $209.2 million, compared with $12.6 million in 2020. The increase in cash flows provided by operating activities resulted primarily from the increase in revenues due to higher charter hire rates.

Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $125.5 million, compared to $5.5 million in the prior year. During 2021, the Company purchased nine vessels for $126.2 million. The Company paid $6.7 million for the purchase of ballast water treatment systems on our fleet. Additionally, the Company paid $2.1 million for vessel improvements. This use of cash was partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of one vessel for $9.2 million and $0.4 million of insurance proceeds received on hull and machinery claims.

Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $86.3 million, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $22.6 million in the prior year ended December 31, 2020. During 2021, the Company received (i) $300.0 million in proceeds from the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, (ii) $50.0 million in proceeds from the revolver loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, (iii) $55.0 million in proceeds from the revolver loan under the New Ultraco Debt Facility, (iv) $16.5 million in proceeds from the New Ultraco Debt Facility, (v) $24.0 million in proceeds from the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility and (vi) $27.1 million in net proceeds from the ATM Offering. The Company repaid (i) $182.9 million of the New Ultraco Debt Facility, (ii) $184.4 million of the Norwegian Bond Debt, (iii) $12.5 million of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, (iv) $55.0 million of the revolver loan under the New Ultraco Debt Facility, (v) $24.0 million of the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, (vi) $15.0 million of the revolver loan under the Super Senior Facility and (vii) $50.0 million of the revolver loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. Additionally, the Company paid (i) $6.4 million in financing costs to lenders, (ii) $0.7 million in other financing costs, and (iii) $0.5 million of financing costs related to the equity offerings in December 2020. Additionally, the Company paid $25.8 million in dividends to its shareholders and $1.9 million to settle net share equity awards.

As of December 31, 2021, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $86.1 million, compared to a cash and cash equivalents balance of $69.9 million at December 31, 2020. In addition, our restricted cash balance at December 31, 2021 was $0.1 million which includes $0.1 million for collateralizing letters of credit relating to our office leases. As of December 31, 2020, our restricted cash balance was $18.9 million and includes $18.8 million in proceeds from the sale of vessels which were restricted pursuant to the terms under the Norwegian Bond Debt and $0.1 million for collateralizing letters of credit relating to our office leases.

At December 31, 2021, the Company's debt, net of $21.6 million debt discount and debt issuance costs totaled $380.0 million of which $49.8 million is shown in the current portion of long-term debt and $330.2 million in noncurrent liabilities.

In addition, as of December 31, 2021, we had $100.0 million in an undrawn revolver facility available under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

Our principal sources of funds are operating cash flows, long-term bank borrowings and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our principal use of funds is capital expenditures to establish and grow our fleet, maintain the quality of our vessels, comply with international shipping standards and environmental laws and regulations, fund working capital requirements and repayments of interest and principal on our outstanding debt facilities.

We believe that our current financial resources, together with the undrawn revolver under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our ongoing business needs and other obligations over the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors beyond our control including, among other things, general charter rate environment.

Dividends

During 2021, the Company adopted a dividend policy which allows for a minimum dividend of 30% of its net income, but not less than $0.10 per share, subject to approval from its board of directors. During the year ended December 31, 2021, a quarterly cash dividend for the third quarter of 2021 of $2.00 per share was declared and paid on November 24, 2021 to the shareholders of record as of November 15, 2021. On February 22, 2022, a quarterly cash dividend for the fourth quarter of 2021 of $2.05 per share was declared and is to be paid on March 25, 2022 to the shareholders of record as of March 15, 2022. We expect to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, in the future, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of the board of directors, restrictions contained in the Company's debt facilities, and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, the Company's earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, the ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by the Company's growth strategy, the terms of its outstanding indebtedness and the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to distribute funds to it.

Debt Agreements

Refer to Note 6, Debt, to our consolidated financial statements above for a summary of our credit agreements.

Contractual Obligations

Information about the Company's contractual obligations can be found within Note 3, Vessels, Note 6, Debt, and Note 10, Leases, in addition to the information presented below. We believe that funds from future operating cash flows and cash on hand and available to us through our financing transactions will be sufficient for future operations and commitments, and for capital acquisitions and other strategic transactions for the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter.

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures relate to the purchase of vessels and capital improvements to our vessels, which are expected to enhance the revenue earning capabilities and compliance with new regulations.

In addition to acquisitions that we may undertake in future periods, the Company's other major capital expenditures include funding the Company's program of regularly scheduled drydocking and vessel improvements necessary to comply with international shipping standards and environmental laws and regulations. Although the Company has some flexibility regarding the timing of its drydocking, the costs are relatively predictable. In accordance to the statutory requirements, management anticipates that vessels are to be drydocked every five years for vessels younger than 15 years and two and a half years for vessels older than 15 years. Funding of these requirements is anticipated to be met with cash from operations. We anticipate that the process of recertification will require us to reposition these vessels from a discharge port to shipyard facilities, which will reduce our available days and operating days during that period.

During the third quarter of 2018, the Company entered into a contract for the purchase of BWTS on 39 of our owned vessels. The projected costs, including installation, are approximately $0.5 million per BWTS. The Company intends to complete the installation during scheduled drydockings. The Company completed installation of BWTS on 23 vessels and recorded $11.5 million in Vessels and vessel improvements in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. Additionally, the Company recorded $4.4 million as advances paid towards installation of BWTS as a noncurrent asset in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. We intend to fund the remaining BWTS installations with cash on hand.

Drydocking costs incurred are deferred and amortized to expense on a straight-line basis over the period through the date of the next scheduled drydocking for those vessels. In 2021, 11 of our vessels completed drydock and two vessels were in drydock as of December 31, 2021 and we incurred $21.9 million in drydocking related costs. In 2020, 11 of our vessels completed drydock and we incurred $14.3 million in drydocking related costs. The increase in drydocking costs was primarily due to additional required upgrades including the installation of BWTS, discretionary vessel upgrades, and an increase in shipyard costs due to shipyard congestion caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.

The following table represents certain information about the estimated costs for anticipated vessel drydockings, BWTS, and vessel upgrades in the next four quarters, along with the anticipated off-hire days:

Projected Costs(1)(in millions)
Quarter Ending     Off-hire Days(2) BWTS Drydocks Vessel Upgrades(3)
March 31, 2022     383              $    2.8      $ 4.1 $ 1.2
June 30, 2022      238              0.7  4.0      0.4
September 30, 2022 85               0.2  0.1      -
December 31, 2022  99               0.5  0.3      -
(1)Actual costs will vary based on various factors, including where the drydockings are actually performed. We expect to fund these costs with cash on hand.

(2)Actual duration of off-hire days will vary based on the age and condition of the vessel, yard schedules and other factors.

(3)Vessel upgrades represents capital expenditures relating to items such as high-spec low friction hull paint which improves fuel efficiency and reduces fuel costs, NeoPanama Canal chock fittings enabling vessels to carry additional cargo through the new Panama Canal locks, as well as other retrofitted fuel-saving devices. Vessel upgrades are discretionary in nature and evaluated on a business case-by-case basis. We expect to fund these upgrades with cash on hand.

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

Other Contingencies

We refer you to Note 9, Commitment and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a discussion of our contingencies related to claim litigation. The potential impact from legal proceedings on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, could change in the future.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company's objective is to manage the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings and cash flows. The Company expects to manage this exposure to market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, using derivative financial instruments. The Company has entered into, and in the future may enter into additional, interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes related to its borrowings and to lower its overall borrowing costs. On October 1, 2021, the Company, along with certain of its vessel-owning subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into the Global Ultraco Debt Facility with the Global Ultraco Lenders. The Global Ultraco Debt Facility provides for an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million, which consists of (i) the Global Ultraco Term Facility in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million and (ii) the Global Ultraco Revolving Facility in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million to be used for refinancing the outstanding debt including accrued interest and commitment fees under the Previous Debt Facilities and for general corporate purposes. Additionally, the Company entered into four interest rate swaps for the notional amount of $300.0 million of the term loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility at a fixed interest rate ranging between 0.83% and 1.06% to hedge the LIBOR-based floating interest rate. The interest rate swaps were designated and qualified as a cash flow hedge. The Company uses the interest rate swaps for the management of interest rate risk exposure, as the interest rate swaps effectively convert a portion of the Company's debt from a floating to a fixed rate. The interest rate swaps are an agreement between the Company and counterparties to pay, in the future, a fixed-rate payment in exchange for the counterparties paying the Company a variable payment. The amount of the net payment obligation is based on the notional amount of the interest rate swaps and the prevailing market interest rates. The Company may terminate the interest rate swaps prior to their expiration dates, at which point a realized gain or loss would be recognized. The value of the Company's commitment would increase or decrease based primarily on the extent to which interest rates move against the rate fixed for each swap.

At December 31, 2021, the Company's debt consisted of $114.1 million, net of $13.2 million in debt discount and debt issuance costs under the Convertible Bond Debt and $287.6 million, net of $8.5 million in debt issuance costs under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. In addition, we have $100.0 million in an undrawn revolver facility available under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. The Convertible Bond Debt carries a fixed interest rate of 5.00% and therefore does not carry any exposure to interest rate increases. The interest rate on our outstanding term loan debt under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility is fixed with interest rate swaps which were entered into in the fourth quarter of 2021. Therefore the only outstanding debt which has any exposure to interest rate fluctuations is our revolving facility under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, which carries an interest of margin plus LIBOR. Our total cash interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 on our outstanding revolver loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility was $0.1 million. The table below provides sensitivity analysis of changes in interest rates for an increase or decrease of 100 basis points and an increase of 200 basis points and the increase in annual interest expense under each scenario if our revolver facility is fully drawn at $100.0 million.

                  Incremental interest expense
                  For the year endedDecember 31, 2021 For the year endedDecember 31, 2020
+200 basis points $                                   2,000,000 $ 1,400,000
+100 basis points 1,000,000                           700,000
-100 basis points (1,000,000)                         (700,000)
For information regarding our use of interest rate swaps, see Note 7, Derivative Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements.

Foreign Currency and Exchange Rate Risk

The shipping industry in which the Company operates substantially transacts using the U.S. dollar. The Company generates all of its revenues in U.S. dollars and the Company's current exposure to currency fluctuations is not material. The majority of the Company's operating expenses are in U.S. dollars. However, we incur some of our voyage expenses and vessel operating expenses in other currencies. The amount and frequency of some of these expenses may fluctuate from period to period. Depreciation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies will increase the U.S. dollar cost to us of paying such expenses. There is currently no expectation that that there would be an increase in the business conducted in foreign currencies. In the future if there is a substantial increase in our foreign currency transactions, our exposure could increase and we may seek to hedge against any currency fluctuation.

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The information required by this item is contained in the financial statements set forth in Item 15(a) under the caption "Consolidated Financial Statements" as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9.Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2021. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits to the SEC under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act. The Company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the Company's financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO") in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013). Based on management's assessment and those criteria, management has concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021.

Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of the Company's assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial

statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that the Company's receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of the Company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021 has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules under the heading, "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm."

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

In addition, we evaluated our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act and there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2021 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.Other Information

None

PART III

Item 10.Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information regarding our directors, executive officers and certain corporate governance items will be included in the proxy statement for the 2022 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2021, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

Item 11.Executive Compensation

Information regarding executive compensation will be included in the proxy statement for the 2022 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2021, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

Item 12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

On December 15, 2016, the Company adopted the 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Plan") which replaced the 2014 Plan. Under the terms of the 2016 Plan, a maximum of 1,121,229 shares may be issued. Any director, officer, employee or consultant of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (including any prospective officer or employee) is eligible to be designated to participate in the 2016 Plan.

The following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 2021 regarding the 2016 Plan. The 2016 Plan was approved by our shareholders on December 15, 2016.

Number of Securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rightsWeighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rightsNumber of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans(excluding securities reflected in column (a))Plan Category(a)*(b)(c)*Equity compensation plans approved by security holders47,568$38.60191,013

* The sum, combined with 882,648 restricted shares issued consists of 1,121,229 shares eligible to be granted under the 2016 Plan.

Information regarding beneficial ownership and management and related stockholder matters will be included in the proxy statement for the 2022 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2021, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

Item 13.Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions and director independence will be included in the proxy statement for the 2022 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2021, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

Item 14.Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information regarding principal accounting fees and services billed to us by our principal accountant, Deloitte & Touche LLP (PCAOB ID No. 34) will be included in the proxy statement for the 2022 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2021, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

PART IV

Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a) Documents filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K

1. Consolidated Financial Statements: See accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements.
2. Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule: Financial statement schedules are omitted either due to the absence of conditions under which they are required or because the information required is included in the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.
(b) Exhibits

NumberExhibit Title

3.1[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex3-2.htm]

Second Amended and Restated By-Laws of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., dated as of October 15, 2014[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex3-2.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex3-2.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on October 16, 2014; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex3-2.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex3-2.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex3-2.htm]

3.2[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916036390/ex3-1.htm]

Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., dated as of August 4, 2016[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916036390/ex3-1.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916036390/ex3-1.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on August 4, 2016; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916036390/ex3-1.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916036390/ex3-1.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916036390/ex3-1.htm]

3.3[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm]

Article[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm] s[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm] of Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm] ([https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on September 14, 2020; File No. 001-33831[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm] )[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm] .[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm]

4.1[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex4-1.htm]

Form of Specimen Stock Certificate of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex4-1.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex4-1.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on October 16, 2014; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex4-1.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex4-1.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex4-1.htm]

4.2[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916032152/ex10-1.htm]

Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2016, by and between Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and the Holders party thereto[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916032152/ex10-1.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916032152/ex10-1.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on May 17, 2016; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916032152/ex10-1.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916032152/ex10-1.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916032152/ex10-1.htm]

4.3* Description of Securities.

4.4[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm]

Indenture, dated July 29, 2019, by and between Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 2, 2019[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm]).

4.5[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm]

Form of Note representing the Company's 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 (included as Exhibit A to the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 2, 2019).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm]

10.1#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019004733/a2019proxysc.htm#sAAF7E7224A615DA5AF7FDB6823706964]

Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. Amended and Restated 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A (File No. 001-33831) filed with the SEC on April 25, 2019).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019004733/a2019proxysc.htm#sAAF7E7224A615DA5AF7FDB6823706964]

10.2#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm]

Employment Agreement, dated[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] October[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] 29[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] , 20[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] 21[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] , among Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., Eagle Shipping International (USA) LLC and Gary Vogel[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] 1[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] to the[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] Current[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] Report on Form[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] 8[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] -[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] K[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] November 1[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] , 20[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] 2[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] 1[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] ; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm]

10.3#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm]

Employment Agreement, dated September 3, 2016, among Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., Eagle Shipping International (USA) LLC and Frank De Costanzo[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on November 9, 2016; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm]

10.4#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041582/ex10-1.htm]

Option Award Agreement, dated November 7, 2016, between Frank De Costanzo and Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041582/ex10-1.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041582/ex10-1.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on November 9, 2016; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041582/ex10-1.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041582/ex10-1.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041582/ex10-1.htm]

10.5#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917005696/ex10-38.htm]

Option Award Agreement, dated December 15, 2016, between Gary Vogel and Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917005696/ex10-38.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917005696/ex10-38.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on March 31, 2017; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917005696/ex10-38.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917005696/ex10-38.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917005696/ex10-38.htm]

10.6#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm]

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on March 7, 2017; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm]

10.7#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm]

Form of Option Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on March 7, 2017; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm]

10.8[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021004650/egle-atmsalesagreement.htm]

At Market Issuance Sales Agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., BTIG, LLC and Fearnley Securities, Inc.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021004650/egle-atmsalesagreement.htm] ([http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021004650/egle-atmsalesagreement.htm] incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. filed with the SEC on March 12, 2021; File No. 001-33831[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021004650/egle-atmsalesagreement.htm] )[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021004650/egle-atmsalesagreement.htm] .[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021004650/egle-atmsalesagreement.htm]

10.9* Senior Secured Credit Facility, dated October 1, 2021, by and between Eagle Bulk Shipping, Inc., certain vessel-owning subsidiaries, as guarantors, the lenders party thereto, the swap banks party thereto, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (PUBL), Danish Ship Finance A/S, Nordea Bank ABP, Filial I Norge and DNB Markets Inc., as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners, DNB Bank ASA, as swap coordinator, Deutsche Bank AG and ING Bank N.V., London Branch, as lenders, and Credit Agricole, as security trustee, structurer, sustainability coordinator and facility agent

10.10#* Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan, dated September 3, 2021, between Gary Vogel and Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.

10.11#* Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan, dated September 3, 2021, between Frank De Costanzo and Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.

21.1* Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1* Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

23.2* Consent of Seward & Kissel LLP.

31.1* Rule 13a-14(d) / 15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer.

31.2* Rule 13a-14(d) / 15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer.

32.1** Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer.

32.2** Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer.

101.INS*XBRL Instance Document.101.SCH*XBRL Schema Document.101.CAL*XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document.101.DEF*XBRL Definition Linkbase Document.101.LAB*XBRL Labels Linkbase Document.101.PRE*XBRL Presentation Linkbase Document.104Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101).

* Filed herewith.

** Furnished herewith.

# Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC.
 

 By:    /s/ Gary Vogel
 

 Name:  Gary Vogel
 Title: Chief Executive Officer
March 11, 2022

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 11, 2022.

Name                   Title
                       

/s/ Gary Vogel         Chief Executive Officer and Director(Principal Executive Officer)
Gary Vogel
                       

/s/ Frank De Costanzo  Chief Financial Officer(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
Frank De Costanzo
                       

/s/ Paul M. Leand, Jr. Chairman of the Board of Directors
Paul M. Leand, Jr.
                       

/s/ Randee E. Day      Director
Randee E. Day
                       

/s/ Justin A. Knowles  Director
Justin A. Knowles
                       

/s/ Bart Veldhuizen    Director
Bart Veldhuizen
                       

/s/ Gary Weston        Director
Gary Weston
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No.34)                            F-2
                                                                                                    

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020                                        F-5
                                                                                                    

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019          F-7
                                                                                                    

Consolidated Statements of ComprehensiveIncome/(Loss)for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019F-8
                                                                                                    

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019F-9
                                                                                                    

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019          F-12
                                                                                                    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                          F-14
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.

Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income/(loss), changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)issued by COSO.

Change in Accounting Principle

As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted FASB Accounting Standards Update 2016-02,Leases, using the modified retrospective approach.

Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audits of the financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures to respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

F- 2

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.

Determination of Vessel Asset Impairment Indicators - Refer to Note 2 to the financial statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company's evaluation of vessel assets for impairment involves an initial assessment of each vessel asset to determine whether events or changes in circumstances exist that may indicate that the carrying amounts of vessel assets are no longer recoverable. Total Vessels and vessel improvements, at cost, net of accumulated depreciation as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, were $908 million and $811 million, respectively.

Possible indications of impairment may include events or changes in circumstances affecting the legal environment, the business climate, employment, charter hire rates, market value, useful economic life and physical condition of the vessel assets. When events or changes in circumstances exist, the Company evaluates its vessel assets for impairment by comparing undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the life of each vessel asset to the respective carrying amount. If the Company's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows for any vessel asset for which indicators of impairment exist is lower than the vessel asset's carrying value, and the vessel's carrying value is greater than its fair market value, the carrying value is written down, by recording a charge to operations, to the vessel asset's fair market value.

The Company makes significant assumptions to evaluate vessel assets for possible indications of impairment. Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the vessel assets identified for further analysis. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, no impairment loss has been recognized on vessel assets.

We identified the determination of impairment indicators for vessel assets as a critical audit matter because of the significant assumptions management makes when determining whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred indicating that the carrying amounts of vessel assets may not be recoverable. This required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort when performing audit procedures to evaluate whether management appropriately identified impairment indicators.

F- 3

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the evaluation of vessel assets for possible indications of impairment included the following, among others:

•We tested the effectiveness of the controls over management's identification of possible circumstances that may indicate that the carrying amounts of vessel assets are no longer recoverable, including controls over management's estimates of the legal environment, the business climate, employment, charter hire rates, market value, useful economic life and physical condition of the vessel assets.

•We evaluated management's impairment analysis by:

◦Testing vessel assets for possible indications of impairment, including searching for adverse asset-specific and/or market conditions.

◦Developing an independent expectation of impairment indicators and comparing such expectation to management's analysis.

◦Obtained from the Company's management the vessel assets impairment indicators analysis and the assumptions used in the legal environment, the business climate, employment, charter hire rates, market value, and physical condition of the vessel assets, and considered the consistency of the assumptions used with evidence obtained in other areas of the audit. This included, among others, 1) internal communications by management to the board of directors, and 2) external communications by management to analysts and investors.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

March 11, 2022

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2015.

F- 4

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in U.S. dollars except share data)

                                                                                                    December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                           $                 86,146,552    $ 69,927,594
Restricted cash - current                                                                           -                 18,846,177
Accounts receivable, net of a reserve of $1,818,482 and $2,357,191, respectively                    28,456,036        13,843,480
Prepaid expenses                                                                                    3,361,730         3,182,815
Inventories                                                                                         17,651,381        11,624,833
Collateral on derivatives                                                                           15,080,567        -
Fair value of derivative assets - current                                                           4,668,873         -
Other current assets                                                                                667,677           839,881
Total current assets                                                                                156,032,816       118,264,780
Noncurrent assets:
Vessels and vessel improvements, at cost, net of accumulated depreciation of $218,669,885 and $177,771,755, respectively908,075,913       810,713,959
Advances for vessel purchases                                                                       -                 3,250,000
Operating lease right-of-use assets                                                                 17,017,429        7,540,871
Other fixed assets, net of accumulated depreciation of $1,402,584 and $1,137,562, respectively      257,228           489,179
Restricted cash - noncurrent                                                                        75,000            75,000
Deferred drydock costs, net                                                                         37,093,531        24,153,776
Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent                                                        3,112,091         -
Advances for scrubbers and ballast water systems and other assets                                   4,994,416         2,639,491
Total noncurrent assets                                                                             970,625,608       848,862,276
Total assets                                                                                        $                 1,126,658,424 $ 967,127,056
LIABILITIES & STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable                                                                                    $                 20,781,295    $ 10,589,970
Accrued interest                                                                                    2,957,241         4,690,135
Other accrued liabilities                                                                           17,993,299        11,747,064
Fair value of derivative liabilities - current                                                      4,253,155         481,791
Current portion of operating lease liabilities                                                      15,728,107        7,615,371
Unearned charter hire revenue                                                                       12,087,586        8,072,295
Current portion of long-term debt                                                                   49,800,000        39,244,297
Total current liabilities                                                                           123,600,683       82,440,923
Noncurrent liabilities:
Norwegian Bond Debt, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs                                   -                 169,290,230
Super Senior Facility, net of debt issuance costs                                                   -                 14,896,357
New Ultraco Debt Facility, net of debt issuance costs                                               -                 132,083,949
Global Ultraco Debt Facility, net of debt issuance costs                                            229,289,860       -
Convertible Bond Debt, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs                                 100,953,744       96,660,485
Noncurrent portion of operating lease liabilities                                                   1,282,553         686,422
Other noncurrent accrued liabilities                                                                265,365           -
F- 5

Fair value of derivative liabilities - noncurrent                                                   -             650,607
Total noncurrent liabilities                                                                        331,791,522   414,268,050
Total liabilities                                                                                   455,392,205   496,708,973
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 25,000,000 shares authorized, none issued as of December 31, 2021 and 2020-             -
Common stock, $0.01 par value, 700,000,000 shares authorized, 12,917,027 and 11,661,797 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively129,170       116,618
Additional paid-in capital                                                                          982,745,562   943,571,685
Accumulated deficit                                                                                 (313,494,798) (472,137,822)
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)                                                       1,886,285     (1,132,398)
Total stockholders' equity                                                                          671,266,219   470,418,083
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                                          $             1,126,658,424 $ 967,127,056
                                                                                                    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 6

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in U.S. dollars except share data)

                                                                   For the Years Ended
December 31, 2021                                                  December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Revenues, net                                                      $                 594,537,654 $ 275,133,547  $ 292,377,638
                                                                   

Voyage expenses                                                    104,643,078       89,548,796  87,701,407
Vessel operating expenses                                          103,876,600       86,527,915  82,342,123
Charter hire expenses                                              37,101,692        21,280,224  42,168,642
Depreciation and amortization                                      53,517,372        50,157,147  40,545,904
General and administrative expenses                                35,160,889        31,532,109  35,041,996
Impairment of operating lease right-of-use assets                  -                 352,368     -
Other operating expense                                            2,812,415         -           1,125,000
(Gain)/loss on sale of vessels                                     (3,966,370)       489,772     (5,978,566)
Total operating expenses, net                                      333,145,676       279,888,331 282,946,506
                                                                   

Operating income/(loss)                                            261,391,978       (4,754,784) 9,431,132
                                                                   

Interest expense                                                   32,256,787        35,392,623  30,577,489
Interest income                                                    (91,533)          (257,165)   (1,867,326)
Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net 38,243,746        (4,826,774) 149,632
Loss on debt extinguishment                                        6,085,094         -           2,268,452
Total other expense, net                                           76,494,094        30,308,684  31,128,247
Net income/(loss)                                                  $                 184,897,884 $ (35,063,468) $ (21,697,115)
                                                                   

Weighted average shares outstanding*:
                                                                   

Basic*                                                             12,399,509        10,310,246  10,195,088
Diluted*                                                           15,684,392        10,310,246  10,195,088
                                                                   

Per share amounts:
Basic net income/(loss) *                                          $                 14.91       $ (3.40)       $ (2.13)
Diluted net income/(loss) *                                        $                 11.79       $ (3.40)       $ (2.13)
* Adjusted to give effect for the 1-for-7 Reverse Stock Split that became effective as of September 15, 2020, see Note 1, General Information.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 7

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS)

(in U.S. dollars)

                                               For the Years Ended
                                               December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Net income/(loss)                              $                 184,897,884       $ (35,063,468) $ (21,697,115)
Other comprehensive income/(loss):
Net unrealized gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges 3,018,683         (1,132,398)       -
Comprehensive income/(loss)                    $                 187,916,567       $ (36,195,866) $ (21,697,115)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 8

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(in U.S. dollars except share data)

F- 9

                                                                            Common Shares* Common Shares Amount* Additional paid-in Capital* Accumulated Deficit Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) Total Stockholders' Equity
Balance at January 1, 2019                                                  10,150,771     $                     101,508                     $                   894,881,580                                   $ (415,377,239) $ -         $ 479,605,849
Net loss                                                                    -              -                     -                           (21,697,115)        -                                             (21,697,115)
Proceeds received from the Share Lending Agreement                          -              -                     35,829                      -                   -                                             35,829
Issuance of shares due to vesting of restricted shares                      63,829         638                   (638)                       -                   -                                             -
Equity component of Convertible Bond Debt, net of equity issuance costs     -              -                     20,175,803                  -                   -                                             20,175,803
Cash used to settle net share equity awards                                 -              -                     (1,443,753)                 -                   -                                             (1,443,753)
Stock-based compensation                                                    -              -                     4,826,324                   -                   -                                             4,826,324
Balance at December 31, 2019                                                10,214,600     102,146               918,475,145                 (437,074,354)       -                                             481,502,937
Net loss                                                                    -              -                     -                           (35,063,468)        -                                             (35,063,468)
Issuance of shares due to vesting of restricted shares                      65,982         660                   (660)                       -                   -                                             -
Issuance of common shares for Equity Offerings                              1,381,215      13,812                23,803,693                  -                   -                                             23,817,505
Fees for Equity Offerings                                                   -              -                     (579,651)                   -                   -                                             (579,651)
Cash used to settle net share equity awards                                 -              -                     (1,162,609)                 -                   -                                             (1,162,609)
Cash used to settle fractional shares in the Reverse Stock Split            -              -                     (12,513)                    -                   -                                             (12,513)
Unrealized loss on cash flow hedges                                         -              -                     -                           -                   (1,132,398)                                   (1,132,398)
Stock-based compensation                                                    -              -                     3,048,280                   -                   -                                             3,048,280
Balance at December 31, 2020                                                11,661,797     116,618               943,571,685                 (472,137,822)       (1,132,398)                                   470,418,083
Net income                                                                  -              -                     -                           184,897,884         -                                             184,897,884
Dividends declared                                                          -              -                     -                           (26,254,860)        -                                             (26,254,860)
Issuance of shares due to vesting of restricted shares                      81,281         813                   (813)                       -                   -                                             -
Issuance of shares upon exercise of stock options                           50,641         506                   55,072                      -                   -                                             55,578
Issuance of shares upon conversion of Convertible Bond Debt                 25             -                     982                         -                   -                                             982
Issuance of shares upon conversion of warrants                              541,898        5,419                 10,674,569                  -                   -                                             10,679,988
Issuance of shares from ATM Offering, net of commissions and issuance costs 581,385        5,814                 27,132,524                  -                   -                                             27,138,338
Fees for Equity Offerings                                                   -              -                     (232,971)                   -                   -                                             (232,971)
Cash used to settle net share equity awards                                 -              -                     (1,936,581)                 -                   -                                             (1,936,581)
Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges                                         -              -                     -                           -                   3,018,683                                     3,018,683
Stock-based compensation                                                    -              -                     3,481,095                   -                   -                                             3,481,095
Balance at December 31, 2021                                                12,917,027     $                     129,170                     $                   982,745,562                                   $ (313,494,798) $ 1,886,285 $ 671,266,219
F- 10

* Adjusted retroactively to give effect for the 1-for-7 Reverse Stock Split that became effective as of September 15, 2020, see Note 1, General Information.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 11

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in U.S. dollars)

                                                               For the Years Ended
                                                               December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Cash flows from operating activities:
Net income/(loss)                                              $                 184,897,884       $ (35,063,468) $ (21,697,115)
Adjustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation                                                   44,861,755        42,778,395        34,318,053
Amortization of deferred drydocking costs                      8,655,617         7,378,752         6,227,851
Amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets            16,364,248        12,516,798        12,764,596
Amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs          7,082,655         6,272,309         3,783,939
Loss on debt extinguishment                                    6,085,094         -                 2,268,452
(Gain)/loss on sale of vessels                                 (3,966,370)       489,772           (5,978,566)
Impairment of operating lease right-of-use assets              -                 352,368           -
Net unrealized loss/(gain) on fair value of derivatives        68,153            (536,935)         (75,537)
Stock-based compensation expense                               3,481,095         3,048,280         4,826,324
Drydocking expenditures                                        (21,906,358)      (14,293,562)      (11,903,474)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Accounts payable                                               10,066,523        (4,170,779)       3,199,113
Accounts receivable                                            (14,966,819)      1,917,765         (6,902)
Accrued interest                                               (1,732,894)       (630,954)         3,585,458
Inventories                                                    (6,026,548)       4,199,445         313,507
Operating lease liabilities current and noncurrent             (17,131,939)      (13,255,978)      (13,475,534)
Collateral on derivatives                                      (15,080,567)      -                 -
Fair value of derivatives, other current and noncurrent assets (1,622,099)       (228,992)         1,503,904
Other accrued liabilities                                      6,204,957         (3,006,946)       4,261,774
Prepaid expenses                                               (178,915)         1,448,601         4,463
Unearned charter hire revenue                                  4,015,291         3,380,036         (2,234,580)
Net cash provided by operating activities                      209,170,763       12,594,907        21,685,726
                                                               

Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of vessels and vessel improvements                    (128,253,515)     (979,612)         (143,477,720)
Advances for vessel purchases                                  -                 (3,250,000)       -
Purchase of scrubbers and ballast water treatment systems      (6,712,172)       (28,376,566)      (58,196,164)
Proceeds from hull and machinery insurance claims              354,263           3,943,667         3,845,967
Proceeds from sale of vessels                                  9,163,354         23,224,650        29,560,746
Purchase of other fixed assets                                 (33,071)          (53,794)          (351,434)
Net cash used in investing activities                          (125,481,141)     (5,491,655)       (168,618,605)
                                                               

Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from the revolver loan under New First Lien Facility  -                 -                 5,000,000
Payment of revolver under New First Lien Facility              -                 -                 (5,000,000)
Proceeds from Convertible Bond Debt, net of debt discount      -                 -                 112,482,586
F- 12

Proceeds from New Ultraco Debt Facility                                                             16,500,000    22,550,000   187,760,000
Proceeds from Share Lending Agreement                                                               -             -            35,829
Proceeds from the revolver loan under New Ultraco Debt Facility                                     55,000,000    55,000,000   -
Proceeds from the Super Senior Facility                                                             -             15,000,000   -
Proceeds from Holdco Revolving Credit Facility                                                      24,000,000    -            -
Proceeds from the Global Ultraco Debt Facility                                                      300,000,000   -            -
Proceeds from the revolver loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility                              50,000,000    -            -
Proceeds from issuance of shares under ATM Offering, net of commissions                             27,138,338    -            -
Repayment of New First Lien Facility - term loan                                                    -             -            (60,000,000)
Repayment of Norwegian Bond Debt                                                                    (184,356,000) (8,000,000)  (8,000,000)
Repayment of Original Ultraco Debt Facility                                                         -             -            (82,600,000)
Repayment of term loan under New Ultraco Debt Facility                                              (182,929,593) (28,734,393) (15,146,013)
Repayment of term loan under Global Ultraco Debt Facility                                           (12,450,000)  -            -
Repayment of revolver loan under New Ultraco Debt Facility                                          (55,000,000)  (55,000,000) -
Repayment of revolver loan under Super Senior Facility                                              (15,000,000)  -            -
Repayment of revolver loan under Holdco Revolving Credit Facility                                   (24,000,000)  -            -
Repayment of revolver loan under Global Ultraco Debt Facility                                       (50,000,000)  -            -
Financing costs paid to lenders                                                                     (6,351,489)   (381,471)    (3,533,770)
Other financing costs                                                                               (730,711)     (141,634)    (1,655,353)
(Payments on)/proceeds from Equity Offerings, net of issuance costs                                 (492,972)     23,497,854   -
Cash received from exercise of stock options                                                        55,578        -            -
Cash used to settle fractional shares                                                               (23)          (12,513)     -
Dividends paid                                                                                      (25,763,388)  -            -
Cash used to settle net share equity awards                                                         (1,936,581)   (1,162,609)  (1,443,753)
Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities                                                 (86,316,841)  22,615,234   127,899,526
Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash                               (2,627,219)   29,718,486   (19,033,353)
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of year                                     88,848,771    59,130,285   78,163,638
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year                                           $             86,221,552   $ 88,848,771 $ 59,130,285
                                                                                                    

Supplemental cash flow information:
Accruals for vessel purchases and vessel improvements included in Other accrued liabilities         $             72,597       $ -          $ -
Accruals for scrubbers and ballast water treatment systems in Accounts payable and Other accrued liabilities$             3,306,853    $ 3,154,693  $ 16,380,168
Accruals for dividends payable included in Other accrued liabilities and Other noncurrent accrued liabilities$             491,472      $ -          $ -
Fair value of warrants issued as consideration for vessel purchases included in Vessels and vessel improvements$             10,679,988   $ -          $ -
Accruals for equity issuance costs included in Accounts payable and Other accrued liabilities       $             -            $ 260,000    $ -
Cash paid during the period for interest                                                            $             25,966,735   $ 29,603,965 $ 23,208,093
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 13

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1. General Information

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company," "we" or "our" or similar terms). The Company is engaged in the ocean transportation of drybulk cargoes worldwide through the ownership, charter and operation of drybulk vessels. The Company's fleet is comprised of Supramax and Ultramax drybulk carriers and the Company operates its business in one business segment.

Each of the Company's vessels serve the same type of customer, have similar operation and maintenance requirements, operate in the same regulatory environment, and are subject to similar economic characteristics. Based on this, the Company has determined that it operates in one reportable segment, which is engaged in the ocean transportation of drybulk cargoes worldwide through the ownership and operation of drybulk carrier vessels.

The Company is a holding company incorporated in 2005, under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and is the sole owner of all of the outstanding shares of its wholly-owned subsidiaries formed in the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The primary activity of each of the subsidiaries is the ownership of a vessel. The operations of the vessels are managed by a directly wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Eagle Bulk Management LLC, a Republic of the Marshall Islands limited liability company.

As of December 31, 2021, the Company owned and operated a modern fleet of 53 ocean-going vessels, including 27 Supramax and 26 Ultramax vessels, with a combined carrying capacity of 3.19 million deadweight tons ("dwt") and an average age of approximately 9.3 years. Additionally, the Company chartered-in four Ultramax vessels for remaining lease term of less than one year. The Company also charters-in third-party vessels on a short to medium term basis. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Company had no charterers which individually accounted for more than 10% of the Company's gross charter revenue.

In March 2021, the Company entered into an at market issuance sales agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., BTIG, LLC and Fearnley Securities, Inc., as sales agents (each, a "Sales Agent" and collectively, the "Sales Agents"), to sell shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company with aggregate gross sales proceeds of up to $50.0 million, from time to time through an "at-the-market" offering program (the "ATM Offering"). During the second quarter of 2021, the Company sold and issued an aggregate of 581,385 shares at a weighted-average sales price of $47.97 per share under the ATM Offering for aggregate net proceeds of $27.1 million after deducting sales agent commissions and other offering costs. The proceeds were used for partial financing of vessel acquisitions and other corporate purposes.

Effective as of September 15, 2020, the Company completed a 1-for-7 reverse stock split (the "Reverse Stock Split") of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share. Proportional adjustments were made to the Company's issued and outstanding common stock and to the exercise price and the number of shares issuable upon exercise of all of the Company's outstanding warrants, the exercise price and number of shares issuable upon exercise of the options outstanding under the Company's equity incentive plans, and the number of shares subject to restricted stock awards under the Company's equity incentive plans. Furthermore, the conversion rate set forth in the indenture governing the Company's Convertible Bond Debt was adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. No fractional shares of common stock were issued in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Furthermore, if a shareholder held less than seven shares prior to the Reverse Stock Split, then such shareholder received cash in lieu of the fractional share. All references herein to common stock and per share data for all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split.

F- 14

On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") outbreak a pandemic. In response to the pandemic, many countries, ports and organizations, including those where the Company conducts a large part of its operations, have implemented measures to combat the pandemic, such as quarantines, mask and vaccine mandates, and travel restrictions. Such measures have caused and may continue to cause severe trade disruptions. The ongoing pandemic resulted in the decline in charter hire rates which impacted our revenues and cash flow from operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company experienced some delays in cargo operations due to port restrictions and additional protocols and cancellation of a few cargo contracts. However, the Company was able to secure alternative business for its vessels upon cancellation at the prevailing charter rates. As a result of the spread of COVID-19, the Company has incurred some additional crewing expenses relating to procurement of personal protective equipment, COVID-19 testing, and crew travel, which is included in our Vessel operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Additionally, the Company experienced some delays in drydocking and BWTS installations, operations and crew changes due to quarantine regulations and COVID-19 testing and resulting off-hire days.

Although the disruption from COVID-19 may only be temporary, given the dynamic nature of these circumstances, the duration of business disruption and the related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time but could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies

(a) Principles of Consolidation:The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP" or "GAAP") and include the accounts of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions were eliminated upon consolidation.

(b) Use of Estimates:The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates include vessel impairment, vessel valuations, residual value of vessels, the useful lives of vessels, the value of stock-based compensation, fair value of the Convertible Bond Debt (as defined below) and its equity component, estimated losses on our trade receivables, fair value of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities and the fair value of derivatives. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

(c) Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash:The Company considers highly liquid investments such as time deposits and certificates of deposit with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. The Restricted cash - current balance as of December 31, 2020 relates to the proceeds from the sale of vessels, which were restricted pursuant to the terms under the Norwegian Bond Debt. Please see Note 6, Debt, for additional information. Additionally, the Company also had Restricted cash - noncurrent of $0.1 million for collateralizing a letter of credit on our office lease as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.

The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash within the Consolidated Balance Sheets that sum to the total amounts shown in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:

December 31, 2021            December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Cash and cash equivalents    $                 86,146,552 $          69,927,594 $ 53,583,898
Restricted cash - current    -                 18,846,177 5,471,470
Restricted cash - noncurrent 75,000            75,000     74,917
$                            86,221,552        $          88,848,771 $          59,130,285
F- 15

(d) Accounts Receivable and Credit Losses:Accounts receivable includes receivables from charterers for time and voyage charterers. On January 1, 2020, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-13,Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,(or "ASC 326"). At each balance sheet date, the Company maintains an allowance for credit losses for expected uncollectible accounts receivable. The Company wrote off $0.9 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to previously reserved amounts in the allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company recorded a provision of $0.4 million and $0.7 million respectively, for doubtful accounts for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses for expected uncollectible accounts receivable, which is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable and changes in such are classified as voyage expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. The Company assesses collectability by reviewing accounts receivable on a collective basis where similar characteristics exist and on an individual basis when we identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, the Company considered historical collectability based on past due status and made judgments about the creditworthiness of customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. The Company also considers customer-specific information, current market conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions to inform adjustments to historical loss data. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our assessment considered business and market disruptions caused by COVID-19 and estimates of expected emerging credit and collectability trends. The continued volatility in market conditions and evolving shifts in credit trends are difficult to predict causing variability and volatility that may have a material impact on our allowance for credit losses in future periods. The allowance for credit losses on accounts receivable was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2021 and $2.4 million as of December 31, 2020.

(e) Insurance Claims:Insurance claims are recorded net of any deductible amounts for insured damages, which are recognized when recovery is virtually certain under the related insurance policies and where the Company can make an estimate of the amount to be reimbursed following the insurance claim. Insurance claims are included in accounts receivable on the consolidated balance sheets.

(f) Inventories:Inventories, which consist of bunkers, are stated at cost which is determined on a first-in, first-out method. Lubes and spares are expensed as incurred.

(g) Vessels and Vessel Improvements, At Cost:Vessels are stated at cost, which consists of the contract price, and other direct costs relating to acquiring and placing the vessels in service. Major vessel improvements such as scrubbers and ballast water systems are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful lives of the vessels. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the vessels based on the cost of the vessels reduced by the estimated scrap value of the vessels as discussed below.

(h) Vessel Useful Economic Life and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets:The Company estimates the useful life of the Company's vessels to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard to the original owner. The useful lives of the Company's vessels are evaluated to determine if events have occurred which would require modification to their useful lives. In addition, the Company estimates the scrap value of the vessels to be $300 per light weight ton ("lwt").

The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. When the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount, the Company will evaluate the asset for an impairment loss. Measurement of the impairment loss is based on the fair value of the asset as provided by third parties. The Company reviews on an annual basis all the assumptions used in the calculation of undiscounted cash flows. The Company uses the 15 year average of one and three year time charter rates as published by a reputable independent

F- 16

third party shipping broker in its calculation of undiscounted cash flows. We did not recognize any vessel impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019.

(i) Accounting for Drydocking Costs:The Company follows the deferral method of accounting for drydocking costs whereby actual costs incurred are deferred and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the period through the date the next drydocking is required to become due, generally 30 months if the vessels are 15 years old or more and 60 months for the vessels younger than 15 years. Costs deferred as part of the drydocking include direct costs that are incurred as part of the drydocking to meet regulatory requirements. Certain costs are capitalized during drydocking if they are expenditures that add economic life to the vessel, increase the vessel's earnings capacity or improve the vessel's efficiency. Direct costs that are deferred include the shipyard costs, parts, inspection fees, steel, blasting and painting. Expenditures for normal maintenance and repairs, whether incurred as part of the drydocking or not, are expensed as incurred. Unamortized drydocking costs of vessels that are sold are written off and included in the calculation of the resulting gain or loss in the year of the vessels' sale. Unamortized drydocking costs are written off as drydocking expense if the vessels are drydocked before the expiration of the applicable amortization period.

(j) Deferred Financing Costs:Fees incurred for obtaining new loans or refinancing existing ones are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of the related debt using the effective interest method. Unamortized deferred financing costs are written off when the related debt is repaid or refinanced and such amounts are expensed in the period the repayment or refinancing is made. Such amounts are classified as a reduction of the long-term debt balance on the consolidated balance sheets.

(k) Other Fixed Assets:Other fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is based on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Other fixed assets consist principally of leasehold improvements, computers and software and are depreciated over three years. Depreciation expense for other fixed assets for each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 was $0.3 million.

(l) Leases:On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 842,Leases, ("ASC 842"), which revised the accounting for leases. Under the revised lease standard, lessees are required to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for substantially all leases. The standard continues to classify leases as either financing or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition. For operating leases, ASC 842 requires recognition in an entity's income statement of a single lease expense, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term, generally on a straight-line basis. Right-of-use assets represent a right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the related lease liability represents an obligation to make lease payments pursuant to the contractual terms of the lease agreement. Operating lease right-of-use assets are assessed for any potential impairment on each balance sheet date. The accounting applied by a lessor under ASC 842 is substantially equivalent to the prior lease accounting guidance.

At lease commencement, a lessee must develop a discount rate to calculate the present value of the lease payments so that it can determine lease classification and measure the lease liability. When determining the discount rate to be used at lease commencement, a lessee must use the rate implicit in the lease unless that rate cannot be readily determined. When the rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, the lessee should use its incremental borrowing rate. The incremental borrowing rate is the rate that reflects the interest a lessee would have to pay to borrow funds on a collateralized basis over a similar term and in a similar economic environment.

(m) Accounting for Revenues and Expenses:Revenues generated from time charters and/or revenues generated from profit sharing arrangements are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective time charter agreements as service is provided and the profit sharing is fixed and determinable.

F- 17

Under voyage charters, voyage revenues for cargo transportation are recognized ratably over the estimated relative transit time of each voyage. Voyage revenue is deemed to commence upon the loading of the charterer's cargo and is deemed to end upon the completion of discharge, provided an agreed non-cancellable charter between the Company and the charterer is in existence, the charter rate is fixed and determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.

Under voyage charters, voyage expenses include costs such as bunkers, port charges, canal tolls and cargo handling operations, whereas, under time charters, such voyage costs are the responsibility of the Company's customers. Vessel operating expenses include crewing, vessel maintenance and vessel insurance. Brokerage commissions under voyage or time charters are included in voyage expenses. All voyage and vessel operating expenses are expensed as incurred on an accrual basis, except for commissions. Commissions are recognized over the related time or voyage charter period since commissions are earned as the Company's revenues are earned. Probable losses on voyages are provided for in full at the time such loss can be estimated.

At the inception of a time charter, the Company records the difference between the cost of bunker from previous charterer and the bunker sold to the current charterer as a gain or loss within voyage expenses. Additionally, the Company records lower of cost and net realizable value adjustments to re-value the bunker fuel on a quarterly basis for certain time charter agreements where the inventory is subject to gains and losses. These differences in bunkers, including any lower of cost and net realizable value adjustments, resulted in a net (gain) or loss of ($6.3 million), ($0.6 million) and $0.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Additionally, voyage expenses include the cost of bunkers consumed during the ballast period for time charter voyages. The ballast period starts from the completion of the previous voyage and ends on the delivery of the vessel to the current charterers.

(n) Unearned Charter Hire Revenue:Unearned charter hire revenue represents cash received from charterers prior to the time such amounts are earned. These amounts are recognized as revenue as services are provided in future periods.

(o) Repairs and Maintenance:All repair and maintenance expenses are expensed as incurred and are recorded in vessel operating expenses.

(p) Protection and Indemnity Insurance:The Company's Protection and Indemnity Insurance is subject to additional premiums referred to as "back calls" or "supplemental calls" which are accounted for on an accrual basis and are recorded in vessel operating expenses.

(q) Earnings Per Share:Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net income or loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the impact of stock options, restricted stock and warrants, if any, under the treasury stock method unless their impact is anti-dilutive. The Convertible Bond Debt is included in diluted earnings per share based on the if-converted method.

(r) Interest Rate Risk Management:The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes for outstanding debt under the revolver facility on the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. The Company's objective is to manage the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings and cash flows. During October 2021, the Company entered into four interest rate swaps to hedge the three month LIBOR based on floating interest rate exposure of the term loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility for the full notional amount of $300.0 million ranging between 0.83% and 1.06%.

(s) Federal Taxes:The Company is a Republic of the Marshall Islands Corporation. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Company believes that its operations qualify for Internal Revenue Code Section 883 exemption and therefore are not subject to United States federal taxes on United States source shipping income.

F- 18

(t) Stock-Based Compensation:The Company issues stock-based compensation utilizing both stock options and stock grants. In accordance with ASC 718,Stock Compensation, ("ASC 718"), stock-based compensation is measured at the fair value of the award at the date of grant and recognized over the period of vesting on a straight-line basis using the graded vesting method. The grant-date fair value of stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Additionally, the Company granted performance-based restricted stock grants in September 2021 to certain members of its senior management team under the 2016 Plan, which are contingent on certain performance criteria such as earnings per share and the total shareholder return. The fair value of such grants is valued using the Monte Carlo simulation model. Please see Note 13, Stock-Based Compensation, for additional information. Forfeitures are recognized as they occur.

(u) Collateral on Derivatives:The Company does not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivatives by the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral. The amount of collateral to be posted is defined in the terms of respective master agreement executed with counterparties or exchanges and is required when agreed upon threshold limits are exceeded. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company posted cash collateral related to derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements of $15.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively, which is recorded within Collateral on derivatives for the year ended December 31, 2021 and recorded within Other current assets for the year ended December 31, 2020 in the consolidated balance sheets.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective

The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") has issued accounting standards that had not yet become effective as of December 31, 2021 and may impact the Company's consolidated financial statements or related disclosures in future periods. Those standards and their potential impact are discussed below.

In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04,Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting, ("ASU 2020-04"). ASU 2020-04 addresses concerns about certain accounting consequences that could result from the anticipated transition away from the use of LIBOR and other interbank offered rates to alternative reference rates. ASU 2020-04 is elective and applies "to all entities, subject to meeting certain criteria, that have contracts, hedging relationships, and other transactions that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued because of reference rate reform." ASU 2020-04 establishes (1) a general contract modification principle that entities can apply in other areas that may be affected by reference rate reform and (2) certain elective hedge accounting expedients. ASU 2020-04 is optional and effective for all entities as of March 12, 2020 and may be applied prospectively to contract modifications made on or before December 31, 2022. In January 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-01,Rate Reference Reform (Topic 848), Scope, ("ASU 2021-01"), which clarifies certain provisions in Topic 848, if elected by an entity, to apply to derivative instruments that use interest rate for margining, discounting, or contract price alignment that is modified as a result of rate reference reform The Company is currently evaluating the adoption of ASU 2020-04 on its debt under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility as it bears interest on outstanding borrowings at LIBOR plus a margin rate. Additionally, the Company is also evaluating the adoption of ASU 2021-01 on its interest rate swaps related to the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06,Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity's Own Equity, ("ASU 2020-06"). ASU 2020-06 simplifies the accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, including convertible instruments and contracts on an entity's own equity. ASU 2020-06 removes from U.S. GAAP the separation models for (1) convertible debt with a cash conversion feature and (2) convertible instruments with a beneficial conversion feature. As a result, after adopting the ASU's guidance, entities will not separately present in equity an embedded conversion feature in such debt. Instead, the entity will account for a convertible debt instrument wholly as debt, and for convertible preferred stock wholly as preferred stock (i.e., as a single unit of account), unless (1) a convertible instrument contains features that require bifurcation as a derivative under ASC 815,Derivatives and Hedging,or (2) a convertible debt instrument was issued at a substantial premium. ASU 2020-06 is effective for all public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, with early adoption permitted in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. The Company is finalizing its evaluation of the adoption of ASU 2020-06 on its Convertible Bond Debt but has initially concluded

F- 19

it will adopt this ASU under the modified retrospective approach and that the debt instrument will no longer require bifurcation and separate accounting of the equity component. Under this conclusion, the resulting debt discount will no longer be amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond.

Note 3. Vessels and Vessel Improvements

As of December 31, 2021, the Company's owned fleet consisted of 53 drybulk vessels.

During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company entered into a series of memorandum of agreements to purchase three high specification scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carriers for a total purchase price of $51.5 million including direct expenses of acquisition. The Company paid a deposit of $3.3 million on these vessels as of December 31, 2020. The Company took delivery of the vessels during the first quarter of 2021.

During the first quarter of 2021, the Company entered into another series of memorandum of agreements to purchase four vessels. The first vessel is a high-specification scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carrier for a total purchase price of $15.3 million and a warrant convertible into 212,315 common shares of the Company. The remaining three vessels are 2011-built, Crown-58 Supramax bulk carriers that were purchased for a total purchase price of $20.5 million and a warrant convertible into 329,583 common shares of the Company. The above mentioned prices include direct expenses of acquisition. Common shares were issuable upon exercise of warrants on a pro-rata basis in connection with each vessel delivery. The warrants were measured at fair value on the date of the memorandum of agreement and recorded as Vessels and vessel improvements on the Consolidated Balance Sheets when the Company took delivery of the vessels. The fair value of the warrants for the total of 541,898 common shares was approximately $10.7 million as of the date of the memorandum of agreements for each vessel. The Company took delivery of the four vessels during the second and third quarters of 2021 and issued 541,898 shares of common stock upon conversion of outstanding warrants.

During the second quarter of 2021, the Company entered into memorandum of agreements to acquire two high-specification 2015-built, scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulk carriers. This acquisition was partially financed with cash on hand, which included proceeds raised from equity issued under the Company's ATM Offering. The total cost of the vessels acquired including the direct costs of acquisition was $42.2 million. The Company took delivery of the two vessels in each of the third and fourth quarters of 2021.

In the second quarter of 2021, the Company signed a memorandum of agreement to sell the vessel Tern for a total net consideration of $9.2 million after commissions and associated selling expenses. The vessel was delivered to the buyer during the third quarter of 2021. The Company recorded a gain of $4.0 million in its Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021. Additionally, the Company wrote off $0.3 million of unamortized drydock costs upon sale of the vessel.

During the third quarter of 2018, the Company entered into a contract for the purchase of ballast water treatment systems ("BWTS") on 39 of our owned vessels. The projected costs, including installation, are approximately $0.5 million per BWTS. The Company intends to complete the installations during scheduled drydockings. The Company completed installation of BWTS on 23 vessels and recorded $11.5 million in Vessels and vessel improvements in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. Additionally, the Company recorded $4.4 million as advances paid towards installation of BWTS on the remaining vessels as a noncurrent asset in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021.

F- 20

The Vessels and vessel improvements activity for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 is below:

                                                                    December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Vessels and vessel improvements                                     $                 810,713,959 $ 835,959,084
Transfer from advances paid for vessel purchases                    3,250,000         -
Purchase of vessels and vessel improvements                         128,326,112       979,612
Fair value of warrants issued as consideration for vessel purchases 10,679,988        -
Sale of vessels                                                     (4,885,998)       (23,458,118)
Scrubbers and BWTS                                                  4,588,585         39,706,507
Depreciation expense                                                (44,596,733)      (42,473,126)
Vessels and vessel improvements                                     $                 908,075,913 $ 810,713,959
Note 4. Deferred Drydock Costs

Drydocking activity is summarized as follows:

                                 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Beginning Balance                $                 24,153,776 $ 17,495,270
Payments for drydocking          21,906,358        14,293,562
Drydock amortization             (8,655,617)       (7,378,752)
Write-off due to sale of vessels (310,986)         (256,304)
Ending Balance                   $                 37,093,531 $ 24,153,776
Note 5. Other Accrued Liabilities

Other accrued liabilities consists of:

                                    December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Vessel and voyage expenses          $                 7,467,901  $ 4,625,539
Scrubber, BWTS and drydocking costs 1,743,255         1,178,695
General and administrative expenses 8,556,036         5,942,830
Dividends payable                   226,107           -
Total                               $                 17,993,299 $ 11,747,064
F- 21

Note 6. Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:

                                                                    December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Convertible Bond Debt                                               $                 114,119,000 $ 114,120,000
Debt discount and debt issuance costs - Convertible Bond Debt       (13,165,256)      (17,459,515)
Convertible Bond Debt, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs 100,953,744       96,660,485
Global Ultraco Debt Facility                                        287,550,000       -
Debt issuance costs - Global Ultraco Debt Facility                  (8,460,140)       -
Less: Current portion - Global Ultraco Debt Facility                (49,800,000)      -
Global Ultraco Debt Facility, net of debt issuance costs            229,289,860       -
Norwegian Bond Debt                                                 -                 180,000,000
Debt discount and debt issuance costs - Norwegian Bond Debt         -                 (2,709,770)
Less: Current portion - Norwegian Bond Debt                         -                 (8,000,000)
Norwegian Bond Debt, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs   -                 169,290,230
New Ultraco Debt Facility                                           -                 166,429,594
Debt issuance costs - New Ultraco Debt Facility                     -                 (3,101,348)
Less: Current portion - New Ultraco Debt Facility                   -                 (31,244,297)
New Ultraco Debt Facility, net of debt issuance costs               -                 132,083,949
Super Senior Facility                                               -                 15,000,000
Debt issuance costs - Super Senior Facility                         -                 (103,643)
Super Senior Facility, net of debt issuance costs                   -                 14,896,357
Total long-term debt                                                $                 330,243,604 $ 412,931,021
Convertible Bond Debt

On July 29, 2019, the Company issued $114.1 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 (the "Convertible Bond Debt"). After deducting debt discount of $1.6 million, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $112.5 million. Additionally, the Company incurred $1.0 million of debt issuance costs relating to the transaction. The Company used the proceeds to partially finance the purchase of six Ultramax vessels and for general corporate purposes, including working capital. The Company took delivery of the vessels in the third and fourth quarters of 2019.

The Convertible Bond Debt bears interest at a rate of 5.0% per annum on the outstanding principal amount thereof, payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, which commenced on February 1, 2020. The Convertible Bond Debt may bear additional interest upon certain events, as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Bond Debt (the "Indenture").

The Convertible Bond Debt will mature on August 1, 2024 (the "Maturity Date"), unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted pursuant to its terms. The Company may not otherwise redeem the Convertible Bond Debt prior to the Maturity Date.

Each holder has the right to convert any portion of the Convertible Bond Debt, provided such portion is of $1,000 or a multiple thereof, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the Maturity Date. The conversion rate of the Convertible Bond Debt after adjusting for the Reverse Stock Split effected on September 15, 2020 and the Company's payment of a cash dividend of $2.00 per share on November 24, 2021 to shareholders of record as of November 15, 2021 is 26.747 shares of the Company's common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Bond Debt, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $37.39 per share of its common stock (subject to further adjustments for future dividends).

F- 22

Upon conversion, the Company will pay or deliver, as the case may be, either cash, shares of its common stock or a combination of cash and shares of its common stock, at the Company's election, to the holder (subject to shareholder approval requirements in accordance with the listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Select Market).

If the Company undergoes a fundamental change, as set forth in the Indenture, each holder may require the Company to repurchase all or part of their Convertible Bond Debt for cash in principal amounts of $1,000 or a multiple thereof. The fundamental change repurchase price will be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Bond Debt to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If, however, the holders elect to convert their Convertible Bond Debt in connection with the fundamental change, the Company will be required to increase the conversion rate of the Convertible Bond Debt at a rate determined by a combination of the date the fundamental change occurs and the stock price of the Company's common stock on such date.

The Convertible Bond Debt is the general, unsecured senior obligation of the Company. It ranks: (i) senior in right of payment to any of the Company's indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Convertible Bond Debt; (ii) equal in right of payment to any of the Company's unsecured indebtedness that is not so subordinated; (iii) effectively junior in right of payment to any of the Company's secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and (iv) structurally junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities of current or future subsidiaries of the Company.

The indenture also provides for customary events of default. Generally, if an event of default occurs and is continuing, then the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Bond Debt then outstanding may declare 100% of the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Convertible Bond Debt then outstanding to be due and payable.

In accordance with ASC 470,Debt,("ASC 470") the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) is to be separately accounted for in a manner that reflects the issuer's non-convertible debt borrowing rate. The guidance requires the initial proceeds received from the sale of convertible debt instruments to be allocated between a liability component and equity component in a manner that reflects the interest expense at the interest rate of similar non-convertible debt that could have been issued by the Company at the time of issuance. The Company accounted for the Convertible Bond Debt based on the above guidance and attributed a portion of the proceeds to the equity component. The resulting debt discount is amortized using the effective interest method over the expected life of the Convertible Bond Debt as interest expense. Additionally, the debt discount and issuance costs were allocated based on the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components using the same proportions as the proceeds from the Convertible Bond Debt. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, for discussion of the impact of ASU 2020-06 on the accounting for the Convertible Bond Debt upon adoption on January 1, 2022.

Share Lending Agreement

In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Bond Debt, certain persons entered into an arrangement (the "Share Lending Agreement") to borrow up to 511,840 shares of the Company's common stock through share lending arrangements from Jefferies LLC ("JCS"), an initial purchaser of the Convertible Bond Debt, which in turn entered into an arrangement to borrow the shares from an entity affiliated with Oaktree Capital Management, L.P., one of the Company's shareholders. The number of shares under the Share Lending Agreement have been adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split. As of December 31, 2021, the fair value of the 511,840 outstanding loaned shares was $23.3 million based on the closing price of the common stock on December 31, 2021. In connection with the Share Lending Agreement, JCS paid $0.03 million representing a nominal fee per borrowed share, equal to the par value of the Company's common stock.

While the share lending agreement does not require cash payment upon return of the shares, physical settlement is required (i.e., the loaned shares must be returned at the end of the arrangement). In view of this share return provision and other contractual undertakings of JCS in the share lending agreement, which have the effect of substantially eliminating the economic dilution that otherwise would result from the issuance of borrowed shares,

F- 23

the loaned shares are not considered issued and outstanding for accounting purposes and for the purpose of computing and reporting the Company's basic and diluted weighted average shares or earnings per share. If JCS were to file bankruptcy or commence similar administrative, liquidating or restructuring proceedings, the Company will have to consider 511,840 shares lent to JCS as issued and outstanding for the purposes of calculating earnings per share.

Global Ultraco Debt Facility

On October 1, 2021, Eagle Bulk Ultraco LLC ("Eagle Ultraco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, along with certain of its vessel-owning subsidiaries as guarantors, entered into a new senior secured credit facility (the "Global Ultraco Debt Facility") with the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders") Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank ("Credit Agricole"), Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (PUBL), Danish Ship Finance A/S, Nordea Bank ABP, Filial I Norge, DNB Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, and ING Bank N.V., London Branch. The Global Ultraco Debt Facility provides for an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million, which consists of (i) a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million (the "Term Facility") and (ii) a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million (the "Revolving Facility") to be used for refinancing the outstanding debt including accrued interest and commitment fees under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, New Ultraco Debt Facility and Norwegian Bond Debt (the "Previous Debt Facilities"), which are discussed below, and for general corporate purposes. The Company paid fees of $5.8 million to the Lenders in connection with the transaction.

The Global Ultraco Debt Facility has a maturity date of fiveyears from the date of borrowing on the Term Facility, which is October 1, 2026. Outstanding borrowings bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.10% to 2.80% per annum, depending certain metrics such as the Company's financial leverage ratio and meeting sustainability linked criteria. Repayments of $12.45 million are due quarterly beginning on December 15, 2021, with a final balloon payment of all outstanding principal and accrued interest due upon maturity. The loan is repayable in whole or in part without premium or penalty prior to the maturity date subject to certain requirements stipulated in the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

The Global Ultraco Debt Facility is secured by 49 of the Company's vessels. The Global Ultraco Debt Facility contains certain standard affirmative and negative covenants along with financial covenants. The financial covenants include: (i) minimum consolidated liquidity based on the greater of (a) $0.6 million per vessel owned directly or indirectly by the Company or (b) 7.5% of the Company's total debt; (ii) debt to capitalization ratio not greater than 0.60:1.00; and (iii) maintaining positive working capital.

Pursuant to the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, the Company borrowed $350.0 million and together with cash on hand repaid the outstanding debt, accrued interest and commitment fees under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility and New Ultraco Debt Facility. Concurrently, the Company issued a 10 day call notice to redeem the outstanding bonds under the Norwegian Bond Debt (see details below). Additionally, in October 2021, the Company entered into four interest rate swaps for the notional amount of $300.0 million of the Term Facility under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility at a fixed interest rate ranging between 0.83% and 1.06% to hedge the LIBOR based floating interest rate (see Note 7, Derivative Instruments, for additional details).

Holdco Revolving Credit Facility

On March 26, 2021, Eagle Bulk Holdco LLC ("Holdco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a Credit Agreement ("Holdco Revolving Credit Facility") made by and among (i) Holdco, as borrower, (ii) the Company and certain wholly-owned vessel-owning subsidiaries of Holdco, as joint and several guarantors, (iii) the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders (together with their successors and assigns, the "RCF Lenders"), (iv) Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Nordea Bank ABP, New York Branch, as mandated lead arrangers, and (v) Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as arranger, facility agent and security trustee for the RCF Lenders. Borrowings under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility were repaid in full on October 1, 2021 from the proceeds of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. Certain of the lenders in the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility were also lenders in the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, and therefore, under the guidance in

F- 24

ASC 470 with certain other criteria met, the Company accounted for the repayment as a debt modification. Unamortized debt issuance costs of $0.2 million related to the Holdco Revolving Debt Facility were deferred and will be amortized over the term of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

New Ultraco Debt Facility

On January 25, 2019, Ultraco Shipping LLC ("Ultraco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a senior secured credit facility, (the "New Ultraco Debt Facility"), which provided for a term loan facility and a revolving credit facility. The proceeds from the New Ultraco Debt Facility were used to repay the outstanding debt including accrued interest under the Original Ultraco Debt Facility (as defined below) and the New First Lien Facility (as defined below) in full and for general corporate purposes. Subsequent to amendments on each of October 1, 2019, April 20, 2020 and June 9, 2020, which provided incremental commitments along with certain other amendments, and an agency resignation and appointment and further amendments providing incremental commitments on April 5, 2021, the Company repaid the New Ultraco Debt Facility in full from the proceeds of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility on October 1, 2021. Certain of the lenders in the New Ultraco Debt Facility were also lenders in the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, and therefore, under the guidance in ASC 470 with certain other criteria met, the Company accounted for the repayment as a debt modification. Unamortized debt issuance costs of $2.8 million related to the New Ultraco Debt Facility were deferred and will be amortized over the term of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

New First Lien Facility

On December 8, 2017, Eagle Shipping LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Eagle Shipping") entered into a credit agreement (the "New First Lien Facility"), which was repaid in full from the proceeds of the New Ultraco Debt Facility on January 25, 2019. The Company accounted for the above transaction as a debt extinguishment. As a result, the Company recognized $1.1 million, representing the outstanding balance of debt issuance costs, as Loss on debt extinguishment in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2019.

Super Senior Facility

On December 8, 2017, Eagle Bulk Shipco LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Shipco") entered into a revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount of up to $15.0 million (the "Super Senior Facility").

During the third quarter of 2021, the Company cancelled the Super Senior Facility. There were no outstanding amounts under the facility, and the Company recorded $0.1 million as Loss on debt extinguishment in its Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Norwegian Bond Debt

On November 28, 2017, Shipco issued $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.25% Senior Secured Bonds (the "Bonds" or the "Norwegian Bond Debt"). After giving effect to an original issue discount of approximately 1% and deducting offering expenses of $3.1 million, the net proceeds from the issuance of the Bonds was approximately $195.0 million. Interest on the Bonds accrued at a rate of 8.25% per annum and the Bonds were to mature on November 28, 2022.

During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company sold one vessel for net proceeds of $9.2 million; during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company sold five vessels for combined net proceeds of $23.2 million; and during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company sold five vessels for combined net proceeds of $40.4 million. Pursuant to the bond terms governing the Norwegian Bond Debt, the proceeds from the sale of vessels were to be held in a restricted account to be used for the financing of the acquisition of additional vessels by Shipco and for the partial financing of the scrubbers. As a result, the Company recorded the proceeds from the sale of these vessels as Restricted cash - current in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020. The proceeds were used to purchase two Ultramax vessel for $36.1 million and partial financing of scrubbers for

F- 25

$23.6 million. During the third quarter of 2021, the Company transferred the remaining proceeds from sale of vessels of $13.8 million along with cash on hand of $11.8 million into a Shipco defeasance account to be used towards redemption of the bonds in October 2021.

The Company issued a 10 day call notice to redeem the outstanding bonds under the Norwegian Bond Debt at a redemption price of 102.475% of the nominal amount of each bond. Pursuant to the bond terms, the Company paid $185.6 million consisting of $176.0 million par value of the outstanding bonds, accrued interest of $5.2 million and $4.4 million of a call premium into a defeasance account to be further credited to the bondholders upon expiry of the notice period. The bonds outstanding under the Norwegian Bond Debt were repaid in full on October 18, 2021 after the expiry of the requisite notice period.

The repayment of the Norwegian Bond Debt was considered a debt extinguishment under ASC 470, and therefore, the call premium of $4.4 million and the unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs of $1.6 million were record as Loss on debt extinguishment in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Original Ultraco Debt Facility

On June 28, 2017, Ultraco, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a credit agreement (the "Original Ultraco Debt Facility"), which was repaid in full from the proceeds of the New Ultraco Debt Facility on January 25, 2019. The Company accounted for the above transaction as a debt extinguishment. As a result, the Company recognized $1.2 million representing the outstanding balance of debt issuance costs as Loss on debt extinguishment in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2019.

Interest rates

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the interest rate on the Convertible Bond Debt was 5.00%. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 10.14%.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the interest rate on the Global Ultraco Debt Facility ranged from 2.35% to 2.57%, including a margin over LIBOR applicable under the terms of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility and commitment fees of 40% of the margin on the undrawn portion of the revolver credit facility of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt issuance costs for the year was 3.04%.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the interest rate on the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, which was repaid on October 1, 2021, ranged from 2.55% to 2.60%, including a margin over LIBOR applicable under the terms of the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility and commitment fees of 40% of the margin on the undrawn portion of the revolver credit facility of the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt issuance costs for the year was 5.61%.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the interest rate on the New Ultraco Debt Facility, which was repaid on October 1, 2021, ranged from 2.60% to 2.72%, including a margin over LIBOR applicable under the terms of the New Ultraco Debt Facility and commitment fees of 40% of the margin on the undrawn portion of the revolver credit facility of the New Ultraco Debt Facility. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt issuance costs for the year was 3.28%.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the interest rate on the Super Senior Facility was 2.24%. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt issuance costs for the year was 2.58%. The outstanding revolver loan under the Super Senior Facility was repaid in the first quarter of 2021. The facility was cancelled during the third quarter of 2021.

F- 26

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the interest rate on the Norwegian Bond Debt, which was repaid on October 18, 2021, was 8.25%. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 8.96%.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, the interest rate on the Convertible Bond Debt was 5.00%. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 10.14%.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, the interest rate on the New Ultraco Debt Facility ranged from 2.73% to 4.68% including a margin over LIBOR applicable under the terms of the New Ultraco Debt Facility and commitment fees of 40% of the margin on the undrawn portion of the revolver credit facility of the New Ultraco Debt Facility. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 3.98%.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, the interest rate on our outstanding debt under the Super Senior Facility ranged between 2.24% and 2.89%. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt issuance costs for the year was 3.00%. Additionally, we pay commitment fees of 40% of the margin on the undrawn portion of the Super Senior Revolver Facility.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, the interest rate on the Norwegian Bond Debt was 8.25%. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 8.75%.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the interest rate on the Convertible Bond Debt was 5.00%. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 10.14%.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the interest rate on the New Ultraco Debt Facility ranged from 4.51% to 5.26% including a margin over LIBOR applicable under the terms of the New Ultraco Debt Facility and commitment fees of 40% of the margin on the undrawn portion of the revolver credit facility of the New Ultraco Debt Facility. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 4.54%.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the interest rate on the New First Lien Facility, which was repaid on January 25, 2019, ranged from 5.89% to 6.01% including a margin over LIBOR applicable under the terms of the New First Lien Facility and commitment fees of 40% of the margin on the undrawn portion of the revolver credit facility of the New First Lien Facility. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 6.45%.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the interest rate on the Norwegian Bond Debt was 8.25%. The weighted average effective interest rate including the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs for the year was 9.04%.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the interest rate on the Original Ultraco Debt Facility, which was repaid on January 25, 2019, was 5.28% including a margin over LIBOR and commitment fees of 40% of the margin on the undrawn portion of the facility. The weighted average effective interest rate for the year was 6.80%.

F- 27

Interest expense consisted of:

                                                      For the Years Ended
                                                      December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs $                 7,082,655         $ 6,272,309  $ 3,783,939
Convertible Bond Debt interest                        5,737,654         5,737,650         2,377,550
Global Ultraco Debt Facility interest                 2,473,924         -                 -
Holdco RCF interest                                   313,918           -                 -
Original Ultraco Debt Facility interest               -                 -                 362,257
Norwegian Bond Debt interest                          11,710,417        15,298,250        15,930,750
New Ultraco Debt Facility interest                    4,335,026         7,612,342         7,172,442
New First Lien Facility interest                      -                 -                 293,545
Super Senior Facility interest                        29,818            215,804           -
Commitment fees on revolver facilities                573,375           256,268           657,006
Total Interest expense                                $                 32,256,787        $ 35,392,623 $ 30,577,489
Scheduled Debt Maturities

The following table presents the scheduled maturities of principal amounts of our debt obligations for the next five years.

Global Ultraco Debt Facility Convertible Bond Debt (1) Total
2022                         $                         49,800,000  $           - $ 49,800,000
2023                         49,800,000                -           49,800,000
2024                         49,800,000                114,119,000 163,919,000
2025                         49,800,000                -           49,800,000
2026                         $                         88,350,000  $           - $ 88,350,000
$                            287,550,000               $           114,119,000 $ 401,669,000
(1)This amount represents the total amount of the Convertible Bond Debt that would be paid in cash at the election of the Company upon maturity.

Note 7. Derivative Instruments

Interest rate swaps

During October 2021, the Company entered into four interest rate swaps for the notional amount of $300.0 million of the Term Facility under the Credit Agreement for the Global Ultraco Debt Facility at a fixed interest rate ranging between 0.83% and 1.06% to hedge the LIBOR-based floating interest rate.

On March 31, 2020, the Company entered into an interest rate swap to effectively convert a portion of its debt under the New Ultraco Debt Facility from a floating to a fixed-rate basis. The Company entered into two additional interest rate swap agreements during the second quarter of 2020 to convert the remaining portion of its outstanding debt under the New Ultraco Debt Facility excluding the revolver facility. In August 2021, the Company cancelled the interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150.8 million and incurred a $0.2 million loss, which will be amortized as interest expense over the original life of the cancelled swaps. Concurrent with the cancellation, the Company entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $143.0 million, which was subsequently

F- 28

cancelled on October 1, 2021 upon repayment of the debt. The Company incurred an additional $0.2 million loss, which will be amortized as interest expense over the original life of the cancelled swaps.

The interest rate swaps were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges. The Company uses interest rate swaps for the management of interest rate risk exposure, as an interest rate swap effectively converts a portion of the Company's debt from a floating to a fixed rate. The interest rate swap is an agreement between the Company and counterparties to pay, in the future, a fixed-rate payment in exchange for the counterparties paying the Company a variable payment. The amount of the net payment obligation is based on the notional amount of the interest rate swap and the prevailing market interest rates. The Company may terminate the interest rate swaps prior to their expiration dates, at which point a realized gain or loss would be recognized. The value of the Company's commitment would increase or decrease based primarily on the extent to which interest rates move against the rate fixed for each swap.

Tabular disclosure of derivatives location

The following table summarizes the interest rate swaps in place as of December 31, 2021 and 2020:

Interest Rate Swap Detail Notional Amount Outstanding
Trade date                Fixed rate  Start date       End date          December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
October 7, 2021(1)        0.83%       October 12, 2021 December 15, 2025 $                 215,662,500 $ -
October 13, 2021(1)       0.94%       October 15, 2021 December 15, 2025 23,962,500        -
October 14, 2021(1)       0.93%       October 18, 2021 December 15, 2025 23,962,500        -
October 22, 2021(1)       1.06%       October 26, 2021 December 15, 2025 23,962,500        -
March 31, 2020(2)         0.64%       July 27, 2020    January 26, 2024  -                 72,452,297
April 15, 2020(2)         0.58%       July 27, 2020    January 26, 2024  -                 36,226,149
June 25, 2020(2)          0.50%       July 27, 2020    January 26, 2024  -                 57,751,148
$                         287,550,000 $                166,429,594
(1)Interest rate swap associated with Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

(2)Interest rate swap associated with New Ultraco Debt Facility.

Under these swap contracts, exclusive of applicable margins, the Company will pay fixed rate interest and receive floating-rate interest amounts based on three-month LIBOR settings.

The Company records the fair value of the interest rate swap as an asset or liability on its balance sheet. The effective portion of the swap is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). As of December 31, 2021, the effective portion of the swap recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) was $3.0 million. The estimated loss that is currently recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of December 31, 2021 that is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is $0.6 million. No portion of the cash flow hedges was ineffective during the year ended December 31, 2021.

F- 29

The effect of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 is below:

Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships Amount of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in OCI on Derivatives Location of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income Amount of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income
For the Years Ended                            For the Years Ended
December 31, 2021                              December 31, 2020                                         December 31, 2021                                                        December 31, 2020
Interest rate swaps                            $                                                         2,105,718                                                                $ (1,021,453) Interest expense $ (912,965) $ 110,945
The following table shows the interest rate swap asset and liabilities as of December 31, 2021 and 2020:

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Balance Sheet location                            December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
Interest rate swap                            Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent      $                 3,112,091 $ -
Interest rate swap                            Fair value of derivative liabilities - current    $                 884,725   $ 481,791
Interest rate swap                            Fair value of derivative liabilities - noncurrent $                 -         $ 650,607
Forward freight agreements and bunker swaps

The Company trades in forward freight agreements ("FFAs") and bunker swaps, with the objective of utilizing this market as economic hedging instruments that reduce the risk of specific vessels to changes in the freight market. The Company's FFAs and bunker swaps have not qualified for hedge accounting treatment. As such, unrealized and realized gains are recognized as a component of Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Other current assets and Fair value of derivatives in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Derivatives are considered to be Level 2 instruments in the fair value hierarchy.

For our bunker swaps, the Company may enter into master netting, collateral and offset agreements with counterparties. As of December 31, 2021, the Company has International Swaps and Derivatives Association ("ISDA") agreements with five applicable banks and financial institutions which contain netting provisions. In addition to a master agreement with the Company supported by a primary parent guarantee on either side, the Company also has associated credit support agreements in place with the two counterparties which, among other things, provide the circumstances under which either party is required to post eligible collateral, when the market value of transactions covered by these agreements exceeds specified thresholds. The Company does not anticipate non-performance by any of the counterparties. As of December 31, 2021, no collateral had been received or pledged related to these bunker swaps.

As of December 31, 2021, the Company had outstanding bunker swap agreements to purchase 21,660 metric tons of low sulphur fuel oil with prices ranging between $272 and $583 per metric ton, that are expiring in 2022.

The following table shows our open positions on FFAs as of December 31, 2021:

FFA Period                        Average FFA Contract Price Number of Days Hedged
Quarter ending March 31, 2022     $                          26,352 855
Quarter ending June 30, 2022      24,809                     720
Quarter ending September 30, 2022 21,638                     720
Quarter ending December 31, 2022  20,259                     720
F- 30

The Company will realize a gain or loss on these FFAs based on the price differential between the average daily BSI rate and the FFA contract price. The gains or losses are recorded in Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

The effect of non-designated derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations:

                                                  For the Years Ended
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Location of loss/(gain) recognized                                 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
FFAs - realized loss                              Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net $                 41,138,509 $ 3,822,049
FFAs - unrealized loss                            Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net 58,747            711,708
Bunker swaps - realized gain                      Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net (2,962,916)       (8,347,947)
Bunker swaps - unrealized loss/(gain)             Realized and unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net 9,406             (1,012,584)
Total                                             $                                                                  38,243,746        $          (4,826,774)
Fair value of derivatives
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Balance Sheet Location                         December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
FFAs - Unrealized loss                            Fair value of derivative liabilities - current $                 3,368,430 $ -
FFAs - Unrealized gain                            Fair value of derivative assets - current      4,325,880         -
Bunker Swaps - Unrealized gain                    Fair value of derivative assets - current      342,993           352,399
See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, for a discussion of the Company's policy on its collateral on derivatives.

Note 8. Fair Value Measurements

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument:

Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash-the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for interest-bearing deposits approximate their fair value due to their short-term nature thereof.

Debt-the carrying values approximates fair values for bonds issued under the Convertible Bond Debt, which is traded on NASDAQ. The carrying amount of our term loan borrowing under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility approximates its fair value, due to its variable interest rates.

The Company defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and provides disclosures about fair value measurements. The fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements is as follows:

•Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Our Level 1 non-derivatives include cash, money-market accounts and restricted cash accounts.

•Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are observable. Our Level 2 non-derivatives include our debt balances under the Convertible Bond Debt and the Global Ultraco

F- 31

Debt Facility. Freight forward agreements, bunker swaps and interest rate swaps are considered to be a Level 2 item as the Company, using the income approach to value the derivatives, uses observable Level 2 market inputs at measurement date and standard valuation techniques to convert future amounts to a single present amount assuming that participants are motivated, but not compelled to transact. See Note 7 Derivative Instruments.

•Level 3 - Inputs that are unobservable (for example cash flow modeling inputs based on assumptions).

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value:

Fair Value
Carrying Value(8)                                 Level 1     Level 2
December 31, 2021
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents(1)                      $           86,221,552 $ 86,221,552 $ -
Collateral on derivatives                         15,080,567  15,080,567 -
Fair value of derivative assets - current(2)      4,668,873   -          4,668,873
Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent(3)   3,112,091   -          3,112,091
Liabilities
Global Ultraco Debt Facility(4)                   287,550,000 -          287,550,000
Convertible Bond Debt(5)                          114,119,000 -          147,498,808
Fair value of derivative liabilities - current(6) 4,253,155   -          4,253,155
Fair Value
Carrying Value(8)                                                Level 1     Level 2
December 31, 2020
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents(1)                                     $           88,848,771 $ 88,848,771 $ -
Other current assets(2)                                          483,739     131,340    352,399
Liabilities
Norwegian Bond Debt(7)                                           180,000,000 -          173,250,000
New Ultraco Debt Facility(4)                                     166,429,594 -          166,429,594
Super Senior Facility(4)                                         15,000,000  -          15,000,000
Convertible Bond Debt(5)                                         114,120,000 -          92,748,748
Fair value of derivative liabilities - current and noncurrent(6) 1,132,398   -          1,132,398
F- 32

(1) Includes restricted cash (current and non-current) of $0.1 million at December 31, 2021 and $18.9 million at December 31, 2020.
(2) Relates to unrealized mark-to-market gains on FFAs and bunker swaps as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Includes $0.1 million of collateral on derivatives as of December 31, 2020.
(3) Includes $3.1 million of unrealized gains on our interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2021.
(4) The fair value of the liabilities is based on the required repayment to the lenders if the debt was discharged in full on December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.
(5) The fair value of the Convertible Bond Debt is based on the last trade on December 16, 2021 and the last trade on December 21, 2020 on Bloomberg.com.
(6) Includes $3.4 million of unrealized mark-to-market losses on FFAs and $0.9 million of unrealized losses on our interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2021 and $1.1 million of unrealized losses on our interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2020.
(7) The fair value of the bond is based on the last trade on December 14, 2020 on Bloomberg.com.
(8) The outstanding debt balances represent the face value of the debt excluding debt discount and debt issuance costs.
Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies

Legal Proceedings

The Company is involved in legal proceedings and may become involved in other legal matters arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company evaluates these legal matters on a case-by-case basis to make a determination as to the impact, if any, on its business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

In March 2021, the U.S. government began investigating an allegation that one of the Company's vessels may have improperly disposed of ballast water that entered the engine room bilges during a repair. The investigation of this alleged violation of environmental laws is ongoing, and although at this time we do not believe that this matter will have a material impact on the Company, our financial condition or results of operations, we cannot determine what penalties, if any, will be imposed. We have posted a surety bond as security for any fines, penalties or associated costs that may be issued, and the Company is cooperating fully with the U.S. government in its investigation of this matter. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company incurred and recorded $2.8 million as Other operating expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations, relating to this incident, which includes legal fees, surety bond expenses, vessel off-hire, crew changes and travel costs.

We have not been involved in any legal proceedings, other than as disclosed above, which we believe may have, or have had, a significant effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity, nor are we aware of any proceedings that are pending or threatened, other than as described above, which we believe may have a significant effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations or liquidity. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, principally personal injury and property casualty claims. We expect that these claims would be covered by insurance, subject to customary deductibles. Those claims, even if lacking merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.

Note 10. Leases

The following are the types of contracts the Company has, which are accounted for under lease guidance, ASC 842:

Time charter out contracts

The Company's shipping revenues are principally generated from time charters and voyage charters. In a time charter contract, the vessel is hired by the charterer for a specified period of time in exchange for consideration

F- 33

which is based on a daily hire rate. The charterer has the full discretion over the ports visited, shipping routes and vessel speed. The contract/charter party generally provides typical warranties regarding the speed and performance of the vessel. The charter party generally has some owner protective restrictions such that the vessel is sent only to safe ports by the charterer, subject always to compliance with applicable sanction laws, and carry only lawful or non-hazardous cargo. In a time charter contract, the Company is responsible for all the costs incurred for running the vessel such as crew costs, vessel insurance, repairs and maintenance and lubes. The charterer bears the voyage related costs such as bunker expenses, port charges and canal tolls during the hire period. The performance obligations in a time charter contract are satisfied over the term of the contract beginning when the vessel is delivered to the charterer until it is redelivered back to the Company. The charterer generally pays the charter hire in advance of the upcoming contract period. The Company determined that all time charter contracts are considered operating leases and therefore fall under the scope of ASC 842 because: (i) the vessel is an identifiable asset; (ii) the Company does not have substantive substitution rights; and (iii) the charterer has the right to control the use of the vessel during the term of the contract and derives the economic benefits from such use.

Under ASC 842, the Company elected not to separate the lease and non-lease components included in the time charter revenue because the pattern of revenue recognition for the lease and non-lease components (included in the daily hire rate) is the same. The daily hire rate represents the hire rate for a bare boat charter as well as the compensation for expenses incurred running the vessel such as crewing expense, repairs, insurance, maintenance and lubes. Both the lease and non-lease components are earned by passage of time.

The revenue generated from time charter out contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective time charter agreements, which are recorded as part of Revenues, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019.

Time charter-in contracts

The Company charters in vessels to supplement our own fleet and employs them both on time charters and voyage charters. The time charter-in contracts range in lease terms from 30 days to 2 years. Time charter-in contracts with an initial lease term of less than 12 months are excluded from the operating lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities recognized on our Consolidated Balance Sheet but recognizes the operating lease right-of-use assets and the corresponding lease liabilities on the Consolidated Balance sheet for time charter-in contracts greater than 12 months. The Company recognizes the lease payments for all vessel operating leases as charter hire expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

The Company determined that the time charter-in contracts do not contain an implicit borrowing rate. Therefore, the Company arrived at the incremental borrowing rate by determining the Company's implied credit rating and the yield curve for debt as of January 1, 2019. The Company then interpolated the yield curve to determine the incremental borrowing rate for each lease based on the remaining lease term on the specific lease. Based on the above methodology, the Company's incremental borrowing rates ranged from 2.81% to 6.08% for the five lease contracts (three time charter-in contracts and two office leases) for which the Company recorded operating lease right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities.

The Company has time charter-in contracts for Ultramax vessels which are greater than 12 months as of the date of lease commencement. A description of each of these contracts is below:

(i) The Company entered into an agreement effective April 28, 2017, to charter-in a 61,400 dwt, 2013 built Japanese vessel for approximately four years with options for twoadditional years. The hire rate for the first four years is $12,800 per day and the hire rate for the first optional year is $13,800 per day and $14,300 per day for the second optional year. The Company has determined that it will not exercise the existing options under this contract and therefore the options are not included in the calculation of the operating lease right-of-use asset. In addition, the Company's fair value below contract value of time charters acquired of $1.8 million as of December 31, 2018, which related to the unamortized value of a prior charter with the same counterparty that had been recorded at the time of the Company's emergence from bankruptcy, was offset against the corresponding right of use asset on this lease as of January 1, 2019. On July 8, 2021, the Company exercised its option to extend the charter for another year

F- 34

at a hire rate of $13,800 per day. The Company has increased the lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset by $5.0 million to reflect the extended lease term in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. The discount rate utilized in the measurement of lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset based on the Company's implied credit rating and the yield curve for debt as of July 8, 2021 was 1.36%.

(ii) On May 4, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to charter-in a 61,425 dwt, 2013 built Ultramax vessel for three years with an option for an additional two years. The hire rate for the first three years is $12,700 per day and $13,750 per day for the first year option and $14,750 per day for the second year option. The Company took delivery of the vessel in the third quarter of 2018. During the second quarter of 2021, the Company decided to extend the lease term to its maximum redelivery date allowed under the charter party. Additionally, on June 28, 2021, the Company exercised its option to extend the charter for another year until October 19, 2022 at a hire rate of $13,750 per day. The Company has increased the lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset by $5.8 million to reflect the extended lease term in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. The discount rate utilized in the measurement of lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset based on the Company's implied credit rating and the yield curve for debt as of June 28, 2021 was 1.34%.

(iii) On December 9, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to charter-in a 62,487 dwt, 2016 built Ultramax vessel for two years. The hire rate for the vessel until March 2020 is $14,250 per day and $15,250 per day thereafter. The Company took delivery of the vessel in the fourth quarter of 2018. On December 25, 2019, the Company renegotiated the lease terms for another year at a hire rate of $11,600 per day. The Company accounted for this as a lease modification on December 25, 2019 and increased its lease liability and right-of-use asset on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2019 by $4.5 million. During the first quarter of 2021, the Company decided to extend the lease term to its maximum redelivery date allowed under the charter party. Therefore, the lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset as of March 31, 2021 have been increased by $1.0 million to reflect the change in lease term from minimum redelivery date to maximum redelivery date allowed under the charter party. On May 4, 2021, the Company exercised its option to extend the charter for another year until July 31, 2022 at a hire rate of $12,600 per day. The Company has increased the lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset by $4.3 million to reflect the extended lease term in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. The discount rate utilized in the measurement of lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset based on the Company's implied credit rating and the yield curve for debt as of May 4, 2021 was 1.38%.

(iv) On December 22, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to charter-in a 63,634 dwt, 2021 built Ultramax vessel for twelvemonths with an option for an additional threemonths at a hire rate of $5,900 per day plus 57% of the Baltic Supramax Index ("BSI") 58 average of 10 time charter routes as published by the Baltic Exchange each business day. Additionally, following the initial fifteenmonth period the Company has an additional option to extend for a period of elevento thirteenmonths at an increased rate of $6,500 per day with no change in the rest of the terms. Also, the Company shall share the scrubber benefit with the owners 50% calculated as the price differential between the high sulfur and low sulfur fuel oil based on actual bunker consumption during the lease period. On July 7, 2021, the Company took delivery of the vessel and recorded $9.1 million as lease liability and corresponding right-of-use asset in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021. The discount rate utilized in the measurement of lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset based on the Company's implied credit rating and the yield curve for debt as of July 7, 2021 was 1.33%.

(v) On September 6, 2021, the Company entered into an agreement to charter-in a 2021 built Ultramax vessel for a period of a minimum of twelvemonths and a maximum of fifteenmonths at a hire rate of $11,250 per day plus 57.5% of the BSI 58 average of 10 time charter routes published by the Baltic Exchange each business day. The Company has the option to extend the lease term for another year, during which time the fixed hire rate decreases to $10,750 per day with no change to the remaining terms. The vessel is expected to be delivered to the Company in the second quarter of 2022. No right-of-use asset or corresponding liability has been recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2021 since the Company did not take delivery of the vessel and as such lease term has not begun yet.

Office leases

On October 15, 2015, the Company entered into a commercial lease agreement as a sublessee for office space in Stamford, Connecticut. The lease is effective from January 2016 through June 2023, with an average annual rent of

F- 35

$0.4 million. The lease is secured by a letter of credit backed by cash collateral of $0.1 million and is recorded as Restricted cash - noncurrent in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.

In November 2018, the Company entered into an office lease agreement in Singapore, which was originally set to expire in October 2021, with an average annual rent of $0.3 million. On August 17, 2021, the Company renewed the lease on the existing office space for an additional 5 years with an average annual rent of $0.4 million. The Company increased the lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset by $1.3 million in its Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2021. The discount rate utilized in the measurement of lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset based on the Company's implied credit rating as of August 17, 2021 was 3.09%.

Additionally, the Company entered into a new lease agreement for an additional office space in Singapore for 4.9 years beginning in the second quarter of 2022 with an average annual rent of $0.2 million. The Company took possession of the unit in February 2022. No right-of-use asset or corresponding liability has been recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2021 since the Company did not take possession of the office space and the lease term has not yet commenced.

The Company determined the two office leases to be operating leases and recorded the lease expense as part of General and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019.

Operating lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 are as follows:

Description                                      Location in Balance Sheet                         December 31, 2021(1) December 31, 2020(1)
Non current assets:
Chartered-in contracts greater than 12 months(2) Operating lease right-of-use assets               $                    15,039,060 $ 6,207,253
Office leases                                    Operating lease right-of-use assets               1,978,369            1,333,618
$                                                17,017,429                                        $                    7,540,871
Liabilities:
Chartered-in contracts greater than 12 months    Current portion of operating lease liabilities    $                    15,039,060 $ 6,974,943
Office leases                                    Current portion of operating lease liabilities    689,047              640,428
Lease liabilities - current portion              $                                                 15,728,107           $          7,615,371
                                                 

Office leases                                    Noncurrent portion of operating lease liabilities 1,282,553            686,422
Lease liabilities - non current portion          $                                                 1,282,553            $          686,422
(1)The Operating lease right-of-use assets and Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments for the remaining term of the lease. The discount rates used ranged from 1.33% to 6.08%. The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the lease liability was 1.67%.

(2)During the second quarter of 2020, the Company determined that there were impairment indicators present for one of our chartered-in vessel contracts and, as a result, we recorded an operating lease impairment of $0.4 million. The operating lease impairment was included as component of Operating income/(loss) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2020.

F- 36

The table below presents the components of the Company's lease expenses and sub-lease income on a gross basis earned from chartered-in contracts greater than 12 months for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

Description                                                           Location in Statement of Operations For the Year EndedDecember 31, 2021 For the Year EndedDecember 31, 2020
Lease expense for chartered-in contracts less than 12 months          Charter hire expenses               $                                   20,553,368 $ 8,731,978
Lease expense for chartered-in contracts greater than 12 months       Charter hire expenses               16,548,324                          12,548,246
Total charter hire expenses                                           $                                   37,101,692                          $          21,280,224
                                                                      

Lease expense for office leases                                       General and administrative expenses $                                   642,020    $ 733,874
                                                                      

Sub lease income from chartered-in contracts greater than 12 months * Revenues, net                       $                                   25,372,314 $ 8,589,156
* The sub-lease income represents only time charter revenue earned on the chartered-in contracts greater than 12 months. There is additional revenue earned from voyage charters on the same chartered-in contracts which is recorded in Revenues, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Additionally, there is revenue earned from time charters from chartered-in contracts less than 12 months which is included in Revenues, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

The cash paid for operating leases with terms greater than 12 months is $18.1 million and $14.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

The weighted average remaining lease term on our operating leases greater than 12 months is 12.82 months.

F- 37

The table below provides the total amount of lease payments on an undiscounted basis on our time chartered-in contracts and office leases greater than 12 months as of December 31, 2021:

Supplemental Disclosure Information          Chartered-in contracts greater than 12 months Office leases Total Operating leases
Discount rate upon adoption(1)               5.37                                          %             5.80 %       5.48 %
Year:
2022                                         15,096,117                                    748,243       15,844,360
2023                                         -                                             510,074       510,074
2024                                         -                                             265,922       265,922
2025                                         -                                             265,195       265,195
2026                                         -                                             265,195       265,195
2027                                         -                                             53,766        53,766
15,096,117                                   2,108,395                                     17,204,512
                                             

Present value of lease liability
Lease liabilities - short term               15,039,060                                    689,047       15,728,107
Lease liabilities - long term                -                                             1,282,553     1,282,553
Total lease liabilities                      15,039,060                                    1,971,600     17,010,660
                                             

Discount based on incremental borrowing rate $                                             57,057        $    136,795 $    193,852
(1)Discount rate upon adoption does not include the discount rate on the lease modification on December 25, 2019. The discount rate used for calculation of the right-of-use asset and the related lease liability on December 25, 2019 was 2.806%.

Note 11. Revenue

Voyage charters

In a voyage charter contract, the charterer hires the vessel to transport a specific agreed-upon cargo for a single voyage which may contain multiple load ports and discharge ports. The consideration in such a contract is determined on the basis of a freight rate per metric ton of cargo carried or occasionally on a lump sum basis. The charter party generally has a minimum amount of cargo. The charterer is liable for any short loading of cargo or "dead" freight. The voyage contract generally has standard payment terms of 95% freight paid within three days after completion of loading. The voyage charter party generally has a "demurrage" or "despatch" clause. As per this clause, the charterer reimburses the Company for any potential delays exceeding the allowed laytime as per the charter party clause at the ports visited which is recorded as demurrage revenue. Conversely, the charterer is given credit if the loading/discharging activities happen within the allowed laytime known as despatch, resulting in a reduction in revenue. In a voyage charter contract, the performance obligations begin to be satisfied once the vessel begins loading the cargo. The Company determined that its voyage charter contracts consist of a single performance obligation of transporting the cargo within a specified time period. Therefore, the performance obligation is met evenly as the voyage progresses and the revenue is recognized on a straight line basis over the voyage days from the commencement of the loading of cargo to the completion of discharge.

The voyage contracts are considered service contracts which fall under the provisions of ASC 606,Revenue Recognition, ("ASC 606") because the Company, as the shipowner, retains the control over the operations of the

F- 38

vessel such as directing the routes taken or the vessel speed. The voyage contracts generally have variable consideration in the form of demurrage or despatch. The amount of revenue earned as demurrage or paid by the Company as despatch for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 was $20.7 million, $6.3 million and $10.7 million, respectively.

The following table shows the revenues earned from time charters and voyage charters for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019:

For the Years Ended
December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Time charters     $                 299,613,590 $           105,028,131 $ 128,142,708
Voyage charters   294,924,064       170,105,416 164,234,930
$                 594,537,654       $           275,133,547 $           292,377,638
Contract costs

In a voyage charter contract, the Company bears all voyage related costs such as fuel costs, port charges and canal tolls. These costs are considered contract fulfillment costs because the costs are direct costs related to the performance of the contract and are expected to be recovered. The costs incurred during the period prior to commencement of loading the cargo, primarily bunkers, are deferred as they represent setup costs and recorded as a current asset and are amortized on a straight-line basis as the related performance obligations are satisfied. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recognized $0.7 million and $0.5 million, respectively, of deferred costs which represents bunker expenses and charter hire expenses incurred prior to commencement of loading. These costs are recorded in Other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Note 12. Net Income/(Loss) per Common Share

The computation of basic net income/(loss) per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Diluted net income/(loss) per share gives effect to stock awards, stock options and restricted stock units using the treasury stock method, unless the impact is anti-dilutive.

Diluted net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes 200,145 stock awards and 47,568 stock options as their effect was dilutive. Additionally, the Convertible Bond Debt is not considered a participating security and therefore not included in the computation of Basic net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Company determined that it does not overcome the presumption of share settlement of outstanding debt, and therefore, the Company applied the if-converted method and included the potential shares to be issued upon conversion of Convertible Bond Debt in the calculation of Diluted net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2021 as their effect was dilutive.

Diluted net loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2020 does not include 218,013 stock awards, 325,591 stock options and outstanding warrants convertible to 21,718 shares of common stock as their effect was anti-dilutive. Additionally, the Convertible Bond Debt is not considered a participating security and therefore not included in the computation of Basic net loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company determined that it does not overcome the presumption of share settlement of outstanding debt and therefore the Company applied the if-converted method and did not include the potential shares to be issued upon conversion of Convertible Bond Debt in the calculation of Diluted net loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2020 as their effect was anti-dilutive.

Diluted net loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2019 does not include 222,786 stock awards, 326,399 stock options and outstanding warrants convertible to 21,718 shares of common stock as their effect was anti-

F- 39

dilutive. Additionally, the Convertible Bond Debt is not considered a participating security and therefore not included in the computation of Basic net loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2019. The Company determined that it does not overcome the presumption of share settlement of outstanding debt, and therefore, the Company applied the if-converted method and did not include the potential shares to be issued upon conversion of Convertible Bond Debt in the calculation of Diluted net loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2019 as their effect was anti-dilutive.

                                                                      For the Years Ended
                                                                      December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 *
Net income/(loss)                                                     $                 184,897,884       $ (35,063,468) $ (21,697,115)
Weighted Average Shares - Basic                                       12,399,509        10,310,246        10,195,088
Dilutive effect of stock options, warrants and restricted stock units 3,284,883         -                 -
Weighted Average Shares - Diluted                                     15,684,392        10,310,246        10,195,088
Basic net income/(loss) per share                                     $                 14.91             $ (3.40)       $ (2.13)
Diluted net income/(loss) per share                                   $                 11.79             $ (3.40)       $ (2.13)
* Adjusted to give effect for the 1-for-7 Reverse Stock Split that became effective on September 15, 2020. See Note 1, General Information.

Note 13. Stock Incentive Plans

As a result of the Reverse Stock Split, proportional adjustments were made to the Company's issued and outstanding common stock and to its common stock underlying stock options and other common stock-based equity grants outstanding immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Reverse Stock Split. No fractional shares were issued in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. All references herein to common stock and per share data presented in this footnote have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split.

2014 Management Incentive Plan

On October 15, 2014, in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization, the Company adopted the post-emergence Management Incentive Program (the "2014 Plan" or "MIP"), which provided for the distribution of New Eagle MIP Primary Equity in the form of shares of New Eagle Common Stock, and New Eagle MIP Options, to the participating senior management and other employees of the reorganized Company with 2% of the New Eagle Common Stock (on a fully diluted basis) on the Effective Date, and two tiers of options to acquire 5.5% of the New Eagle Common Stock (on a fully diluted basis) with different strike prices based on the equity value for the reorganized Company.

There are no unvested restricted stock awards outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 under the 2014 Plan.

There are no unvested and unexercised options as of December 31, 2021. There were 40,000 options vested but not exercised and no unvested options as of December 31, 2020. The 40,000 vested options were exercised in November 2021 at an exercise price of $29.96 per share and 5,351 shares were issued after tax.

2016 Equity Compensation Plan

On December 15, 2016, the Company's shareholders approved the 2016 Equity Compensation Plan (the "2016 Plan") and the Company registered 764,087 shares of common stock, which can be issued under the 2016 Plan. The 2016 Plan replaced the 2014 Plan and no other awards will be granted under the 2014 Plan. Under the terms of the 2016 Plan, awards for up to a maximum of 428,571 shares may be granted under the 2016 Plan to any one employee of the Company and its subsidiaries during any one calendar year, and awards in the form of options and stock appreciation rights for up to a maximum of 428,571 shares may be granted under the 2016 Plan. The total number of

F- 40

shares of common stock with respect to which awards may be granted under the 2016 Plan to any non-employee director during any one calendar year shall not exceed 71,428, subject to adjustment as provided in the 2016 Plan. Any Director, officer, employee or consultant of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (including any prospective officer or employee) is eligible to be designated to participate in the 2016 Plan. The Company withheld shares related to restricted stock awards that vested in 2021 at the fair market value equivalent to the maximum statutory tax withholding obligation and remitted that amount in cash to the appropriate taxation authorities. On June 7, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment and restatement of the 2016 Plan, which increased the number of shares reserved under the 2016 Plan by an additional 357,142 shares to a maximum of 1,121,229 shares of common stock.

On February 19, 2021, the Company granted 92,327 restricted shares as a Company-wide grant under the 2016 Plan. The aggregate fair value of the grant is $2.8 million based on the closing share price of $29.96 on February 19, 2021. The shares will vest in equal installments on each of the next three grant date anniversaries over a three-year term. Additionally, on February 19, 2021, the Company granted 4,341 shares of fully vested common stock to its board of directors. The aggregate fair value of the director grant is $0.1 million based on the closing share price of $29.96 on February 19, 2021. The amortization of the above grants is $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, which is included in General and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

On September 3, 2021, the Company granted 17,727 shares of time-based restricted share awards to certain members of its senior management team under the 2016 Plan. The shares will vest in equal installments on each of the next three grant date anniversaries over a three-year term. The aggregate fair value of these awards is $0.9 million based on the closing share price of $49.77 on September 3, 2021. The amortization of the above grant is $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, which is included in General and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Additionally, on September 3, 2021, the Company granted performance-based restricted stock grants to certain members of its senior management team under the 2016 Plan, which are contingent on certain performance criteria. The maximum number of performance-based stock awards that can be issued are 53,182.

Of the maximum 53,182 performance-based stock awards granted, 35,454 shares were granted on September 3, 2021 based on earnings per share ("EPS performance") for the year ended December 31, 2021 (with targets set forth earlier in 2021). These performance-based restricted shares will vest in equal installments on each of the next three grant-date anniversaries over a three-year term, subject to achievement of the EPS performance criteria. The aggregate fair value of these awards is $1.8 million based on the closing share price of $49.77 on September 3, 2021. The EPS performance is considered to be a performance condition under ASC 718, and therefore, the stock-based compensation expense is initially recorded based on the probable outcome that the performance condition will be achieved as of the grant date with subsequent adjustments to the probable outcome over time. The ultimate expense recognized is based on the actual performance outcome at the end of the performance period. As of December 31, 2021, the Company achieved the maximum EPS performance target (100%) and recorded $0.4 million as stock-based compensation expense which is included in General and administrative expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Of the maximum 53,182 performance-based stock awards granted, 17,728 shares were granted on September 3, 2021, based on relative total shareholder return ("TSR performance") for the year ended December 31, 2021. These market-based restricted shares will vest in equal installments on each of the next three grant-date anniversaries over a three-year term, subject to achievement of the relative TSR market condition. All the vested TSR performance shares are subject to a one-year holding period after vesting. The TSR performance is based on the Company's total shareholder return compared to seven peer companies over the performance period which ranges between January 1, 2021 and December 31, 2021. The TSR performance is calculated based on average daily closing stock price over a 20-trading-day period at each of the beginning and end of the performance period. The aggregate fair value of the TSR performance awards, which was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model, was $0.5 million. The assumptions used in the model were the closing stock price of $49.77 on September 3, 2021; the risk-free rate of return of 0.05% based on 4-month treasury rates as of September 3, 2021; expected volatility of 55.66% based on 1-year historical daily volatility of the closing share prices for the Company; and 8.1% discount applied for the 1-year

F- 41

holding period using the Finnerty model. Volatility for each of the peer companies as well as the correlation of returns between each of the companies was also determined as inputs into the Monte Carlo model. As of December 31, 2021, the Company determined that the TSR performance achievement will be 64.1% of the total maximum shares under the market criteria and recorded $0.2 million as stock-based compensation expense, which is included in General and administrative expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

The following schedule represents outstanding stock awards granted under the 2016 Plan, excluding the performance-based shares described above:

                                                                                              Restricted shares Weighted Average Fair value on grant date Aggregatefair value(inmillions) Vesting Terms
Unvested restricted stock outstanding as of December 31, 2019                                 222,786           $                                         32.63                           $ 7.27
Issued during 2020                                                                            107,930           22.12                                     2.39                            33% vesting annually over three-year term
Vested during 2020                                                                            (65,981)          32.63                                     (2.15)
Forfeitures and cancellations due to settlement of tax liability on vested shares during 2020 (46,722)          32.63                                     (1.52)
Unvested restricted stock outstanding as of December 31, 2020                                 218,013           27.48                                     5.99
Issued during 2021                                                                            114,395           33.40                                     3.82                            33% vesting annually over three-year term
Vested during 2021                                                                            (81,734)          27.48                                     (2.25)
Forfeitures and cancellations due to settlement of tax liability on vested shares during 2021 (50,529)          27.48                                     (1.39)
Unvested restricted stock outstanding as of December 31, 2021                                 200,145           $                                         30.83                           $ 6.17
The following schedule represents unvested options outstanding granted under the 2016 Plan:

                                                     Options  Weighted Average ExercisePrice FairValueofOptionson grantdate Aggregate fairvalue(in millions)
Unvested options outstanding as of December 31, 2019 26,000   $                              38.92                          $ 18.20  $ 0.47
Vested and unexercised during 2020                   (13,000) 38.92                          (9.10)                         $ (0.24)
Unvested options outstanding as of December 31, 2020 13,000   $                              38.92                          $ 9.10   $ 0.23
Vested and unexercised during 2021                   (13,000) $                              38.92                          $ (9.10) $ (0.23)
Unvested options outstanding as of December 31, 2021 -        $                              -                              $ -
There are 47,568 options vested but not exercised as of December 31, 2021. The Company issues new shares upon exercise of any vested options. All options expire within five years from the grant date. The vested but not exercised options expire on March 1, 2022 and June 1, 2022 at exercise prices ranging between $32.97 and $38.92 per share. All 47,568 options were exercised prior to March 1, 2022.

F- 42

The stock-based compensation expense for the above stock awards and options under the 2016 Plan and 2014 Plan included in General and administrative expenses:

                                       For the Years Ended
December 31, 2021                      December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
Stock awards / stock option plans      $                 3,481,095 $ 3,048,280 $ 4,826,324
                                       

Total stock-based compensation expense $                 3,481,095 $ 3,048,280 $ 4,826,324
The future compensation expense to be recognized for all grants for the years ending December 31, 2022, 2023 and 2024 is estimated to be $2.5 million, $1.0 million and $0.2 million.

Note 14. Employee Benefit Plan

In October 2010, the Company established a safe harbor 401(k) plan, which is available to full-time office employees who meet the plan's eligibility requirements. The plan allows participants to contribute to the plan a percentage of pre-tax compensation, but not in excess of the maximum allowed under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company was matching contributions amounting to 100% of the first 3% and 50% of the next 2% of each employee's salary. The matching contribution vests immediately. The Company revised its matching contributions to 100% up to 6% of each employee's salary beginning January 1, 2019. The total matching contribution incurred by the Company and included in general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 was $433,048, $447,574 and $435,142, respectively.

The Company has a discretionary profit sharing contribution program under which employees may receive profit sharing contributions based on the Company's annual operating performance. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not make a profit sharing contribution.

Note 15.Subsequent events

On February 22, 2022, the Company's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $2.05 per share to be paid on March 25, 2022 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 15, 2022. The aggregate amount of the dividend is expected to be approximately $27.0 million, which the Company anticipates will be funded from cash on hand.

F- 43

* Original Link[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/0001628280-22-005984-index.html]

Disclaimer

Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. published this content on 14 March 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 14 March 2022 11:12:37 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 SAEXC00020220314ei3e000gs


EMEA Morning Briefing: Ukraine Tensions Continue to Unsettle as Fed Eyed
2920 字
2022 年 3 月 14 日 05:02 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

France Balance of Payments, Foreign Trade; UK Regional PMI, Business Finance Review; EU Eurogroup meeting of eurozone finance ministers; updates from Volkswagen , Prada, Talanx, Phoenix Group , Assa Abloy , Provident Financial

Opening Call:

Equities in Europe are set for a positive start Monday, but gains are seen capped as investors weigh the latest headlines on Ukraine. Asian stocks were mostly lower, along with oil and gold, while the dollar and Treasury yields advanced. U.S. stock futures edged higher at the start of a week in which the Fed is expected to raise its benchmark interest rate for the first time since 2018.

Equities:

European shares were poised for opening gains Monday despite heightened tensions over the war in Ukraine.

Investors in Asia remained on edge following news of a Russian airstrike on a Ukrainian military training center close to the Polish border that killed at least 35 and increased the risk of war encroaching on NATO territory.

The attack, about 10 miles from the Polish border early Sunday, was far to the west of where the conflict has been concentrated, and happened a day after Moscow had warned the West that it would consider arms deliveries to Ukraine as legitimate targets.

A large portion of the military aid from the West-one of the largest transfers of arms in history-passes through Poland into western Ukraine, part of the fine line the U.S. and its NATO allies are walking between aiding Ukraine militarily while steering clear of providing troops or enforcing a no-fly zone that Ukraine has called for.

Read more here.

Market Insight:

Capital Economics said commodity prices are likely to remain volatile in the coming weeks, as investors digest developments in Ukraine and its consequences for commodity markets.

"On balance, though, the risks to prices are still very much skewed to the upside, not least as the West could further tighten restrictions on Russia's commodity exports."

While events in Ukraine will very much be driving commodity price direction this week, China's activity data due Tuesday will also paint a clearer picture of Chinese demand.

"We think these data will come in weaker than the consensus expects, which would support our view that China's demand for commodities is set to remain soft this year."

Forex:

The dollar continued to strengthen in Asia as worries over the Ukraine war and this week's FOMC meeting dragged on sentiment.

Capital Economics expects a 25bp Fed hike this week and "continued commitment to an aggressive tightening cycle, which may reignite the dollar rally."

Currency markets are seeing higher implied volatility, said Corpay's Karl Schamotta and Karthik Sankaran.

"Expectations of rate-hikes this year are being recalibrated lower, but the relative pace of monetary-policy tightening across developed markets is still expected to favor the dollar," they said.

"G7 action on immobilizing Russia's huge reserve pile could lead to attempts by other countries to reduce dollar usage over time, but the extent of US-EU coordination will make it difficult as the euro is the only other comparable vehicle."

Unicredit Research said the euro-dollar exchange rate faces further volatility in the coming week.

"The conflict is seen as a drag mainly for the eurozone and Eastern European countries, and thus EUR/USD and [the Polish zloty, Hungarian forint and Czech koruna] are at risk of further significant fluctuations reflecting swings in market sentiment."

Other News:

TD Securities said buy USD/JPY, citing economic fundamentals and technical charts. The currency pair is a better expression of U.S.-centric risks, particularly the Fed, TD said, noting markets appear to be underpriced for 2023 rate increases and is a risk that may be realized in dot-plot at this week's FOMC meeting.

On charts, USD/JPY has nowhere to go but up, particularly now that 116.40 triple top has been breached, TD said, which entered a long USD/JPY position targeting 120.00 and a stop-loss order at 115.30.

---

The Bank of England is likely to raise interest rates at its next meeting but sound cautious in its messaging about the pace of further rises, potentially weakening sterling, said BDSwiss Group.

The BOE is widely expected to raise its key rate by 25 basis points at its March 17 meeting, in line with February's rise. However, uncertainty over Ukraine means that there will be fewer policy makers voting in favor of lifting rates by a larger 50bps compared with last month when four out of nine officials backed such a move.

"That might lower the odds of a 50bp hike at the next two meetings, which would be negative for the pound," BDSwiss said.

Bonds:

The 10-year Treasury note yield remained firmly above 2% early Monday, extending its rise into a sixth straight session ahead of what is expected to be the first in a series of Fed rate rises.

"Given the focus on tamping down inflation, there is a fear that the Fed could move too fast and threaten growth," said Lindsey Bell , chief markets and money strategist for Ally .

"GDP growth could come under pressure in the coming quarters amid high inflation and weak consumer sentiment. The conflict in Ukraine is the wild card in this scenario. De-escalation will be necessary to reduce inflationary pressures."

Other News:

S&P said it was keeping Ukraine's 'B-/B' long- and short-term foreign and local currency ratings on CreditWatch with negative implications.

"The CreditWatch status indicates that we could lower the ratings if the military conflict were to significantly weaken Ukraine's economy," S&P said. It expects Ukraine's debt service and borrowing needs "will be fully covered by international financial support over at least the next 12 months."

However, S&P also said Russia's military intervention poses significant risks to Ukraine's economic growth, public finances and financial stability. S&P said "as the conflict continues, Ukraine's technical ability to use international financial support and meet its ongoing debt service obligations could erode."

Energy:

Oil prices were down around 2% in Asia, likely weighed by the latest Covid-19 developments in China, said ING.

"The rising number of cases has seen the city of Shenzhen go into lockdown. This will raise concern over the potential hit to demand. But also importantly, it suggests that China is not ready to let go of its zero-Covid policy."

ING also noted that ICE Brent speculators decreased their net long positions last week, signaling increased risk-aversion in the oil futures market.

Oil prices, which have been driven higher by the Ukraine war, may have been weighed by Vladimir Putin 's reported comments that there are "certain positive shifts" in the negotiations between the two countries.

Metals:

Gold futures edged lower as hopes for progress in the Russia-Ukraine talks diminished the safe-haven appeal of bullion.

While Putin's comments are likely giving market participants hope that cease-fire talks are heading in the right direction, economic growth concerns are unlikely to go away anytime soon, hence gold's pullback should be limited, said OANDA .

Aluminum prices were lower too, reversing earlier gains that were spurred by supply disruption concerns, said ANZ.

The gains were mostly due to the U.K. announcing sanctions on Russian individuals, including Oleg Deripaska, who has a stake in state-owned mining company Rusal and after Rio Tinto said it was planning to stop shipments to a Rusal-owned alumina plant.

Read: JPMorgan Leads Talks to Contain Nickel Crisis Damage

Other News:

Fitch said nickel and aluminum prices are set to stay high on likely sizable disruptions to Russian production and exports of the industrial metals.

"We are expecting significant prolonged disruption in the coming months at least, which makes up 9% and 5% of global production, respectively."

It said that low global inventories of both metals, due to high electric-vehicle adoption, have made them particularly vulnerable to price surges. "Depleted inventories will be an important factor in the coming weeks as demand chases restricted supply."

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Russian Prosecutors Warn Western Companies of Arrests, Asset Seizures

Russian prosecutors have issued warnings to Western companies in Russia, threatening to arrest corporate leaders there who criticize the government or to seize assets of companies that withdraw from the country, according to people familiar with the matter.

Prosecutors delivered the warnings in the past week to companies including Coca-Cola Co ., McDonald's Corp ., Procter & Gamble Co ., International Business Machines Corp . and KFC owner Yum Brands Inc., the people said. The calls, letters and visits included threats to sue the companies and seize assets including trademarks, the people said.

   
 
 
JPMorgan Leads Talks to Contain Nickel Crisis Damage

Some of the world's biggest banks worked over the weekend to resolve a crisis in the nickel market that leaves them on the hook for billions of dollars owed by a Chinese metals giant.

JPMorgan Chase & Co ., Standard Chartered PLC and BNP Paribas SA were among the banks and brokers seeking to reach an agreement with Tsingshan Holding Group, people familiar with the discussions said. Trades placed by the Chinese steel and nickel producer on the London Metal Exchange contributed to an uncontrollable rise in prices that led the exchange to halt trading and cancel eight hours' worth of transactions last Tuesday.

   
 
 
Hedge Funds' Commodity Bets Soar After Russia's Invasion of Ukraine

Hedge funds that placed bullish bets on commodities are notching sizable returns from the biggest rally in decades following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

14 Mar 2022 01:02 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Ukraine Tensions Continue -2-

Soroban Capital Partners LP , a $10 billion stock-picking hedge fund in New York, is one of the biggest winners, making at least several hundred million dollars on the trade since February, a person familiar with the matter said. Other winners include New York macro fund Castle Hook Partners and value investor Pilgrim Global. The bet was that a yearslong drop in spending on new commodity supply and efforts to limit carbon emissions would push up materials prices and shares of producers, according to people familiar with the firms.

   
 
 
Russia-Ukraine War Threatens Wheat Supply, Jolts Prices

Russia's invasion of Ukraine threatens a big portion of the world's wheat supply and has sent prices on a dizzying ride to new highs as well as the sharpest weekly drop in years.

Wheat stockpiles were already running low and prices were the highest in years thanks to two years of poor growing weather when Russia's attack jammed up Black Sea trading and endangered nearly a third of the world's exports. The invasion prompted fears of food shortages in countries fed with imported grain and pushed prices to new highs.

   
 
 
Chip Makers Stockpiled Key Materials Ahead of Russian Invasion of Ukraine

Almost two years of chip shortages have had an unexpected upside for the semiconductor industry: It is better prepared to manage the turmoil caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Production of vital raw materials for chip making is concentrated in Russia and Ukraine. The countries are a major source of both neon gas, needed to feed lasers that print minute circuitry onto silicon, and the metal palladium used in later manufacturing stages.

   
 
 
Russia Asked China for Military Assistance, U.S. Officials Say

WASHINGTON-Russia has asked China for military equipment and other assistance for its war effort, according to U.S. officials, who didn't specify what Russia had requested.

News of Russian President Vladimir Putin 's request for help from Beijing, first reported by the Washington Post, comes as Russia's war effort in Ukraine has been bogged down and as U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan heads to Rome on Monday to meet with a top Chinese official on the conflict inside Ukraine.

   
 
 
U.S. Won't Negotiate Ukraine-Related Sanctions With Russia to Save Iran Nuclear Deal

The U.S. won't negotiate exemptions to Ukraine-related sanctions on Russia to save the 2015 Iran nuclear deal and could try to strike a separate accord excluding Moscow, a senior U.S. official said, a diplomatic effort complicated by an Iranian missile attack on Iraq that sent American troops rushing for shelter.

With one of President Biden's top foreign-policy goals imperiled, the U.S. official said Washington would start exploring alternatives to the deal over the next week if Russia didn't back away from its demands for written guarantees exempting Russia from Ukraine-related sanctions that could curtail its future trade with Iran. Such guarantees could undercut the West's punishing array of sanctions leveled at Russia over the Ukraine invasion.

   
 
 
Crypto Aims to Boost Influence With Washington Hires

WASHINGTON-The cryptocurrency industry has staked out a spot at Washington's revolving door, hiring scores of former government officials and regulators as it seeks to shape policies to govern the largely unregulated market.

Those working for or advising cryptocurrency firms or investment funds include three former chairs of the Securities and Exchange Commission , three former chairs of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission , three former U.S. senators, and at least one former White House chief of staff, former Treasury secretary and former chair of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation .

   
 
 
China Pursues Afghanistan's Mineral Wealth After U.S. Exit

MES AYNAK, Afghanistan-Following the American exit from Afghanistan, China's move to claim the country's vast mineral wealth is centered on a mountain south of Kabul.

The mountain and the barren surrounding valley, in Logar province, a two-hour drive from the capital, contain one of the world's biggest untapped reserves of copper.

   
 
 
How Europe Hopes to Wean Itself From Russian Natural Gas

International efforts to sanction Russia for its invasion of Ukraine have magnified a long-running dilemma for the European Union : Its attempts to wean itself from coal have left it more reliant on Moscow for natural gas. This dependence has made it reluctant to support the kind of tough sanctions on energy exports that some say are essential for thwarting Russia's aggressions.

As part of its efforts to cut greenhouse-gas emissions, the EU has reduced its reliance on coal, the burning of which produces more carbon dioxide than oil or natural gas.

   
 
 
U.S. Talks to Ease Oil Sanctions on Venezuela Get Blowback

The Biden administration's interest in regaining access to Venezuelan oil is facing stiff opposition at home over concerns it would prop up an autocratic regime that is a close ally of Russia.

The pushback comes from both Republicans and many prominent Democrats, as well as Venezuela's U.S.-backed opposition, that recently warned officials in Washington it is a mistake to consider turning Caracas back into an energy ally without restoring democracy there first.

   
 
 
Russian Prosecutors Warn Western Companies of Arrests, Asset Seizures

Russian prosecutors have issued warnings to Western companies in Russia, threatening to arrest corporate leaders there who criticize the government or to seize assets of companies that withdraw from the country, according to people familiar with the matter.

Prosecutors delivered the warnings in the past week to companies including Coca-Cola Co ., McDonald's Corp ., Procter & Gamble Co ., International Business Machines Corp . and KFC owner Yum Brands Inc., the people said. The calls, letters and visits included threats to sue the companies and seize assets including trademarks, the people said.

   
 
 
Russian Missiles Strike Ukrainian Military Training Base Near Polish Border

A Russian airstrike on a Ukrainian military training center close to the Polish border threw into sharp relief the hazards of the Western push to deliver arms support to Kyiv while avoiding direct conflict with a nuclear adversary.

The airstrike killed 35 people at the facility in Yavoriv about 10 miles from the Polish border early Sunday, far to the west of where the conflict has been concentrated, one day after Moscow warned the West that it would consider arms deliveries to Ukraine as legitimate targets.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Monday

00:01/UK: Feb UK Regional PMI

06:00/FIN: Feb CPI

07:00/ROM: Feb CPI

07:00/ROM: Jan International trade

07:00/ROM: Jan Industrial production

07:00/SWE: Feb CPI

07:00/GER: Feb WPI

07:45/FRA: Jan Foreign trade

07:45/FRA: Jan Balance of payments

08:00/SPN: Jan Retail Sales

08:00/SVK: Jan Employment and average monthly wage in selected branches

08:00/SVK: Jan Turnover in selected branches of economy, incl Industry & Construction

08:00/CZE: Jan Retail trade

09:00/BUL: Jan Trade with third countries - preliminary data

09:00/BUL: Dec Trade with EU Member States - preliminary data

09:30/UK: Annual CPI Basket of Goods and Services annual review

09:30/UK: 4Q Business Finance Review

10:00/CYP: Jan Foreign Trade (provisional)

10:00/LUX: 4Q GDP

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 14, 2022 01:02 ET (05:02 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220314ei3e0004x


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Rise After Wall Street Rally
3466 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日 05:12 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

UK producer prices; UK monthly inflation figures; Germany Ifo Economic Forecast; EU FCCI Flash Consumer Confidence Indicator; results from Orpea , Leoni , Petrofac, Ultra Electronics .

Opening Call:

A rally on Wall Street could lift European stocks higher Wednesday, while U.S. stock futures pointed to a higher open. Treasury yields rose sharply for the second day in a row, while the dollar weakened slightly. Meanwhile, oil prices continue to grind lower in early Asian trade, while gold and other commodities also edges lower.

Equities:

European stocks are set to rise Wednesday, following a rally on Wall Street led by technology companies, although investors remain concerned about the war in Ukraine and inflation.

"With few levers remaining to pressure Russia short of military intervention, the market is beginning to price in the loss of a significant amount of Russian oil needing to be backfilled. It could take years for Russian oil markets to normalize, if ever," said Stephen Innes, managing partner at SPI Asset Management.

Investors were also closely watching what might happen with President Joe Biden joining a NATO meeting and EU Summit Thursday in Europe, where sanctions and the Russian oil embargo will likely top the agenda.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was set to make a much anticipated online speech in Japan's parliament. Japan, which has abided by a pacifist constitution after its defeat in World War II, has taken an unusually vocal position on the war in Ukraine, joining in sanctions against Russia alongside the Western nations.

Markets have been choppy as Wall Street adjusts to slower economic growth now that federal spending on various stimulus measures has faded away.

"This is actually fairly normal, but it doesn't feel normal because the last few years have been really strong," said Matt Stucky, senior portfolio manager at Northwestern Mutual Wealth.

Investors will soon start readying for the next round of corporate earnings reports as the current quarter nears its close at the end of March, and that could provide a clearer picture of how industries continue handling rising costs.

Read: Gap Between Fed and ECB Policy Tightening Speed Seen Widening

Stocks to watch:

Safety-equipment supplier Halma looks set to report trading "at least on track" in an update Wednesday, Numis Securities said. The FTSE 100-listed company left full-year guidance unchanged at interim results in November, having increased it slightly in September and despite interims well above expectations, citing risks relating to increased supply chain, logistics and labor-market disruption, the brokerage said.

"We expect Halma to return to a more typical rate of growth in H2," Numis says. "H2 will also carry the majority of slated full-year IT upgrade costs (GBP10 million of GBP11m)--part of the reason for the more balanced H1/H2 profit split expected than in recent years."

Forex:

The dollar weakens slightly against the euro and strengthens against the yen. Capital Economics sees the war in Ukraine shaving more than 0.5% from global growth this year. For the US, the firm expects higher bond yields, a stronger dollar and limited gains in equities.

"We expect the yields of long-dated government bonds to rise further in most major economies, and especially in the US, where we anticipate particularly aggressive monetary tightening by the Fed.

This also underpins our forecast for the US dollar to strengthen further as interest rate differentials continue to move in its favor." Meanwhile, "the yen should weaken against the dollar once the uncertainty created by the war in Ukraine starts to fade."

---

The Japanese yen weakened against G-10 and Asian currencies amid improving risk appetite driven by gains in regional stock markets.

Also, the continuing rise in U.S. Treasury yields is likely to add further upward pressure on USD/JPY, with the top of the Bollinger band around 122.00 likely to be next resistance level, MUFG Bank said.

---

Capital Economics expects Treasury yields will rise further, making the yen--sharply weaker against the dollar in March--soften more.

It's around a six-year low of 120.5, the firm's James Reilly said, and he thinks that weakness is mostly due to an increase in the gap between the yields of government bonds in the US and Japan.

Those gaps reflect the Fed's increasingly hawkish tone while the BoJ has stuck to its easy policy script, Reilly says. Also weighing on the yen is a deterioration in Japan's commodity terms of trade due to rising oil prices.

CapEcon thinks these two factors will continue to weigh in favor of yen depreciation. Reilly notes the yen is already near a 50-year low on a real trade-weighted basis, which seems to be starting to worry some policymakers.

---

Interest rate rises by the Bank of England may not necessarily support the pound, Bank of America said. The BOE seemed to raise rates with a tinge of regret for the second consecutive meeting last Thursday, BofA analysts said.

"With the Monetary Policy Committee sounding almost apologetic about hiking once again, this serves to underscore to us the position of weakness the BOE finds itself: hiking due to supply shocks (one of which--Brexit--it still does not acknowledge) and against the backdrop of a generational squeeze in personal incomes," they said.

Raising rates into a slowing economy and squeeze on personal incomes will inevitably take its toll on sterling over the medium term, they say.

Bonds:

Bond yields rose sharply for the second day in a row, reflecting expectations of more aggressive interest rate hikes by the Fed as the central bank moves to squelch the highest inflation in decades. The yield on the 10-year Treasury climbed Wednesday to 2.41% from 2.30% late Monday.

Bank of America 's Paul Ciana said the Treasurys selloff "is testing long term lines that have defined a bull market for decades." He uses historical data to argue that the 10-year yield is likely to peak by May and recede to under 2%.

He sees two scenarios: "Scenario 1 favors buying 10Y soon for at least a corrective (oversold) rally. Scenario 2 (still) favors selling a rally for 2.65% and maybe even 3%." Ciana sees signs of overstreaching also in the two-year, five-year and 30-year bonds.

---

Fast-rising Treasury yields and a flattening curve set the stage for a recession following the Fed's tightening cycle, Deutsche Bank said. "With inflation running at multi-decade highs, the Fed will need to tighten dramatically to bring it back to its 2% mandate," the bank said.

A soft landing won't be possible, unless goods production and jobs supply expand, slowing inflation, fiscal spending falls or the Fed tolerates longer periods of above-target inflation, according to DB.

"The hope is that the economy is starting from a very strong point...Nevertheless, the hikes will be fast and far, a pernicious recipe for future growth."

Energy:

Oil prices continue to grind lower in early Asian trade after U.S. oil futures fell on Tuesday. It now appears unlikely that EU members will agree to join the U.S. in a Russian oil embargo, in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine, Phillip Securities said.

Some EU members including Germany have noted that the bloc is too dependent on Russia's fossil fuels to withstand such a step, it said.

Meanwhile, the number of companies saying they will not deal with Russia continues to grow, with TotalEnergies being the latest to self-sanction the country's energy exports, ANZ said.

Metals:

Gold inched lower in early Asian trade, pressured by a rise in U.S. Treasury yields overnight. However, the haven metal remains well-supported by risk-off flows spurred by Russia's war in Ukraine.

Axis Securities notes that the situation on the ground in Ukraine remains tense, and in the absence of any real compromise, the conflict has helped create a support base for gold.

UOB reckons that gold may climb to $2,200/oz by year's end, noting that precious metal has seen strong safe-haven inflows from both retail and institutional investors.

---

Copper edged lower in early Asian trading, thanks to a strong U.S. dollar and lockdowns in China curtailing downstream industrial activity, brokerage Marex said.

While China is partially relaxing some of its curbs, the country's Covid-19 wave remains "a short-term headwind," it added.

Marex said a stronger dollar would also weigh on copper as it makes the industrial metal more expensive for international investors. It adds that LME inventories have been gradually building up, though supply remains tight. The three-month LME copper contract was 0.1% lower at $10,262.5 a ton.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Fed Officials Lay Out Case for Further Rate Rises

Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland President Loretta Mester said Tuesday the U.S. central bank has quite a few rate rises ahead of it as it seeks to lower very high levels of inflation.

"In my view, inflation, which is at a 40-year high, is the No. 1 challenge for the U.S. economy at this time," Ms. Mester said in a speech text.

   
 
 
U.S., U.K. Strike Trade Deal to End Tariffs on British Steel and American Whiskey

WASHINGTON-The U.S. and U.K. struck a trade accord Tuesday that will remove U.S. tariffs on British steel and aluminum, while the U.K. will lift levies on American whiskey, motorcycles and tobacco.

Biden administration officials said the agreement with the U.K. will allow the U.K to ship "historically-based sustainable volumes" of steel and aluminum products to the U.S. without levies imposed under the former Trump administration.

   
 
 
Dallas Fed Warns Cutoff of Russian Energy Could Cause Global Recession

A sustained halt in Russian energy exports could have a dire effect on the global economy, a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas said on Tuesday.

23 Mar 2022 01:12 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Rise After Wall -2-

"If the bulk of Russian energy exports is off the market for the remainder of 2022, a global economic downturn seems unavoidable. This slowdown could be more protracted than that in 1991," the bank said in a report written by staff economists Lutz Kilian and Michael Plante.

   
 
 
Global Finance Watchdog Warns of Risks Posed by Migrant Smuggling

Countries must do more to understand the money-laundering and terrorist-financing risks posed by the clandestine business of migrant smuggling, a global finance watchdog said Tuesday.

Over the past decade, political instability, poverty and the effects of climate change have led to more migrants and refugees, fueling the growth of an illegal industry with annual profits exceeding $10 billion, according to a new report by the Financial Action Task Force .

   
 
 
Gas Prices Shoot Up at Fastest Rate on Record

As summer driving season approaches, average prices for regular gasoline have been at record highs the past two weeks after going up for 11 straight weeks. Prices reached $4.32 a gallon on March 14, according to weekly figures from the U.S. Energy Information Administration . They were $4.24 this past week, according to figures released Monday.

Those prices at the pump don't factor in inflation, though, which reached its highest rate in four decades last month. Inflation-adjusted gas prices are at their highest levels since 2014 and similar to what U.S. drivers saw in the early 1980s.

   
 
 
Flattening Yield Curve Stirs Recession Debate

Yields on shorter-term and longer-term U.S. government bonds have been converging rapidly, stirring fears-along with skepticism-that the bond market is close to signaling a looming recession.

Yields, which fall when bond prices rise, have been climbing all year based on expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates. They got another big boost Monday, after Fed Chairman Jerome Powell emphasized that the central bank was prepared to raise rates in half-percentage steps to fight inflation.

   
 
 
Ukrainians Flee Mariupol as Russian Forces Push to Take Port City

ZAPORIZHZHIA, Ukraine-The battle for the southern port city of Mariupol intensified Tuesday with fleeing civilians describing Russian and Ukrainian forces locked in street-by-street warfare through the city's downtown as Moscow's airstrikes gutted entire neighborhoods.

Nearly a month after Russia invaded Ukraine, it is on the verge of taking Mariupol in what would be the first major city to fall under its control. But Mariupol is a shattered prize.

   
 
 
Elon Musk Opens Tesla 's First European Factory

BERLIN-Elon Musk formally kicked off customer deliveries at Tesla Inc .'s first European factory outside Berlin, marking a milestone in the electric-car maker's international expansion.

Speaking Tuesday as he handed the first Tesla Model Y vehicles built at the plant to their new owners, the chief executive said the factory would create a foundation for both electric vehicles and the batteries that would store energy from wind and the sun. Mr. Musk called that a big step in the fight against global warming.

   
 
 
Oligarch Companies Want to Pay Their Debts. But Sanctions Stand in the Way.

Russian companies owned by sanctioned oligarchs say they are having trouble making payments to their foreign creditors, potentially setting them up for default even though they have the funds to pay.

The first major default since Russia invaded Ukraine and the West unleashed punishing sanctions could come as soon as Wednesday. Steel giant Severstal PAO owed a coupon payment due on a dollar bond on March 16 with a five business-day grace period, which expires Wednesday.

   
 
 
Suspected Terrorist Attack in Israel Leaves Four Dead

TEL AVIV, Israel-An assailant killed four people and seriously injured two others in southern Israel Tuesday, stabbing several people and ramming his car into a cyclist in one of the deadliest suspected terrorist attacks against Israelis in recent years.

The assailant, who was identified as an Arab Bedouin in his 30s from a town in southern Israel, was known to security services, Israeli police said. A security official said the assailant had been imprisoned in 2015 for supporting Islamic State, and was arrested before trying to join the Islamist militant group in Syria.

   
 
 
Russian Opposition Leader Alexei Navalny Sentenced to Nine More Years in Prison

Russia's leading opposition figure, Alexei Navalny , was sentenced to nine more years in prison on charges of fraud and contempt of court, in a case his supporters say was brought against him on the orders of President Vladimir Putin .

The fresh sentence comes as Russian authorities seek to put down any dissent against Mr. Putin's war against Ukraine, which has stalled in the face of stiff Ukrainian resistance. Russian authorities have detained more than 15,000 people in antiwar rallies since the invasion began on Feb. 24, according to OVD-Info, an independent organization which monitors detentions at protests. They also passed a law earlier this month that imposes a penalty of up to 15 years in prison on anyone who criticizes the Russian army or refers to its offensive as an invasion or a war.

   
 
 
Ukraine War's Spillover Swamps Poor Countries Still Reeling From Covid-19

Over the past 120 years, a Beirut bakery has survived civil war, Lebanon's financial crisis and the Covid-19 pandemic. Fighting in Ukraine, disrupting food and energy supplies world-wide, may soon put it out of business.

Zouhair Khafiyeh's storefront is empty of the pastries and meat-stuffed pies he has sold for years, which helped put his children through college. The cost of a bag of flour on the black market has gone up more than 1000% since Russia's Feb. 24 invasion. Mr. Khafiyeh has raised his prices by 50%, he said, and now bakes only when customers order and pay up front.

   
 
 
Flood of Refugees From Ukraine War Tests Europe's Capacity to Welcome Them

PARIS-Olga Nychyporenko and her two children lived for five days in a basement in Bucha, a town on the front lines of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, as bombs and tanks destroyed the streets above her.

A week later, the 48-year-old schoolteacher and her family were at a refugee center in Paris, exhausted but safe, and awaiting temporary housing. They escaped during a lull in the fighting, traveled for days to Poland and then caught a free flight to the French capital. She is now eligible to live and work in France for at least a year, with free medical care and schooling for her children.

   
 
 
Lip Gloss, Potato Chips, Air Fresheners Are Among the 'Essentials' Still Sold in Russia

The world's biggest makers of household staples have vowed to stop selling all but the bare essentials in Russia.

What counts as essential is open to interpretation.

   
 
 
Disney Workers Walk Out to Protest Company's Response to Florida Bill

Small groups of Walt Disney Co . employees across the U.S. took Tuesday off from work and gathered to protest what they described as the company's continued failure to support LGBT employees.

The walkouts mark the beginning of a third week of turmoil inside the entertainment giant as its leadership struggles to contain fallout from its bungled response to a Republican-led education bill in Florida, which many employees said targeted the LGBT community.

   
 
 
GameStop 's Stock Rises After Chairman Buys More Shares

Shares of GameStop Corp . rose 16% in after-hours trading after the videogame retailer's chairman disclosed his firm bought 100,000 shares of the company's stock on Tuesday.

Ryan Cohen 's RC Ventures LLC said it paid between $96.81 and $108.82 for the shares it purchased Tuesday. Mr. Cohen owns an 11.9% stake in the retailer, or 9.1 million shares.

   
 
 
Starbucks Workers Vote to Unionize in Seattle Store

A Starbucks Corp . store in Seattle voted to unionize Tuesday, the first in the coffee chain's hometown to seek representation from a growing union of chain baristas.

Chain workers at a single Seattle location voted 9-0 to be represented by the Starbucks Workers United union. Starbucks had petitioned the National Labor Relations Board to review that vote's structure ahead of Tuesday's tally. The federal labor agency denied the appeal, as it has done in response to other review requests by the company so far.

   
 
 
Quantum Startup Sandbox Emerges From Alphabet

Sandbox AQ, a software startup developing quantum-computing and artificial-intelligence tools for commercial use, on Tuesday officially spun off from Alphabet Inc .'s Google to become a stand-alone company.

The move was fueled by a "nine-figure" funding round that included Breyer Capital, T. Rowe Price Associates Inc . and Guggenheim Partners LLC , among other investors, the company said. The amount and terms of the deal were not disclosed.

   
 
 
Nvidia Targets Auto Growth Amid Chip Shortage

Chip maker Nvidia Corp . predicts an inflection point in its automotive sales later this year, suggesting booming demand for greater automation in cars will outpace near-term challenges posed by a global chip shortage and supply-chain disruptions.

The biggest U.S. chip company by market value says its pipeline of deals with auto customers has jumped by more than a third within a year to $11 billion, covering business that should be booked over the next six years, Chief Financial Officer Colette Kress said during an investor conference Tuesday. Its automotive division reported sales of $125 million in its most recent fiscal quarter.

   
 
 
Write to sarka.halas@wsj.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Wednesday

05:30/NED: Mar Consumer confidence survey

05:30/NED: Jan Consumer Spending

07:00/DEN: Mar Consumer expectations

07:00/UK: Feb UK producer prices

07:00/UK: Feb UK monthly inflation figures

09:00/POL: Feb Unemployment

09:00/GER: Ifo Economic Forecast

09:30/UK: Jan UK House Price Index

10:00/MLT: Feb RPI

15:00/EU: Mar FCCI Flash Consumer Confidence Indicator

15:59/GRE: Jan Balance of Payments

23 Mar 2022 01:12 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Rise After Wall -3-

16:59/HUN: 4Q Balance of Payments

16:59/LUX: 4Q Balance of Payments

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 23, 2022 01:12 ET (05:12 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220323ei3n000ba


EMEA Morning Briefing: Shares to Steady as Investors Juggle Multiple Risks
1989 字
2022 年 3 月 24 日 05:14 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Eurozone, Germany, France, UK Flash PMI; EU New Vehicle Registrations; FRance Business Sentiment Index; UK Financial Policy Summary, BOE Systemic Risk Survey, CBI Distributive Trades Survey; ECB Economic Bulletin; ECB General Council meeting; EU Summit; G7 /NATO leaders meet in Brussels; IEA Ministerial Meeting press conference; updates from Clariant , EXOR, Grammer, Fresenius, HeidelbergCement , Deutsche Wohnen , Repsol , Banco Sabadell , Banco Santander , ABB , Givaudan , SGL Carbon , Scout24 , Next, Compass, Micro Focus , SKF, Novo Nordisk , Finnair

Opening Call:

European shares are seen little changed at Thursday's open as investors weigh more hawkish comments from Fed officials, higher oil prices and Joe Biden 's visit to Europe. In Asia, most markets were mixed, the dollar extended its gains along with gold, while Treasury yields edged up. Oil, which had spiked on Wednesday, gave up some gains.

Equities:

European shares will likely struggle for direction early Thursday, as concerns about rising energy prices, supply shortages and inflation continue to grip global markets.

U.S. stocks finished near session lows on Wednesday, with the Dow suffering its worst day in 2 weeks. However, most Asian benchmarks traded steady Thursday, although sentiment remained cautious ahead of Joe Biden 's looming visit to Europe.

Biden is due to attend meetings of NATO , the G7 and the EU in Brussels and Warsaw to strategize on how to keep Russia's Ukraine invasion from spiraling into an even larger crisis. He's also expected to announce more sanctions to punish Russia and ways to continue pressuring China from coming to that country's aid.

"Stocks will struggle as geopolitical risk uncertainty will continue to send energy prices higher and that will leave an unbalanced global growth picture that will make it very difficult for companies," wrote Edward Moya , Senior Market Analyst, The Americas, OANDA .

"The war seems like it could last a lot longer after a German government spokesperson Hebestreit said no new big Russian sanction package is expected from the EU Leader Summit."

Economic Insight:

Capital Economics is still holding out hope that inflation pressures will ease over the second half of the year, in part due to the arithmetic of comparing this year's increases to last year.

"While the war in Ukraine and sanctions on Russian oil mean energy prices will remain elevated and push headline inflation above 8% in March, it will still fall sharply later this year. Energy inflation and inflation in categories that saw intense shortages last year will drop as we reach the anniversary of last spring's big increases," Capital Economics said.

But it added this outlook doesn't change the need for aggressive Fed rate increases.

---

Consumer confidence in the eurozone is set to remain depressed as long as the war in Ukraine continues, particularly if the conflict has a sizable effect on energy prices, Pantheon Macroeconomics said.

Higher energy prices mean higher electricity bills which hits consumers' real incomes and spending. The deterioration in consumer confidence in March suggests that risks to Pantheon's forecast of a 0.5% on-quarter increase in household spending in the first quarter are to the downside.

Consumer confidence in the eurozone fell in March to the lowest level since May 2020.

Forex:

The dollar continued to strengthen in cautious Asian trading.

Pressure points are building again with oil "back on the boil," resulting in stagflation weighing on sentiment, SPI Asset Management said.

Barclays said the dollar may see modest strength in coming months but the currency is nearing its peak. Foreign exchange markets have tried to translate soaring global inflation into a country-specific framework where credible central banks experience currency strength while less credible ones suffer currency weakness.

However, central banks are facing a common inflation shock so those that move swiftly may need to take less action to anchor expectations over time while others may need to catch up, Barclays said. That implies top performing currencies like the dollar will become laggards and vice versa. Barclays expects EUR/USD to rise to 1.15 by year-end.

---

Central banks will be the ongoing theme in forex over the next six months and the Ukraine war will also weigh on the market, Minh Trang at Silicon Valley Bank said.

"What you're hearing from the FOMC at least is a more hawkish tone and expectation of rate hikes, there could be a 50bp hike in May and I think that's what traders are focusing on."

Bonds:

Treasury yields edged higher in Asia after they dropped by the most in more than two weeks Wednesday.

The Treasury yield curve has flattened significantly in recent months, with investors now looking for the 2-year yield to eventually move above the 10-year yield - a phenomenon that has preceded most past recessions.

"The fundamentals supporting a grind toward curve inversion are difficult to fade," BMO Capital Markets strategists Ian Lyngen and Ben Jeffery wrote in a note.

"In the run-up to the May 4 FOMC meeting we anticipate that the flattening momentum will be particularly strong, especially given Powell's emphasis on a 50 bp hike being a reasonable outcome for investors to expect at the next meeting. A half-point move isn't fully priced in yet, implying further curve flattening potential as the event nears."

---

Capital Economics said bond yields will rise more and stocks will gain less than previously forecast as the war in Ukraine changes prospects for the global economy.

CE now forecasts the 10-year Treasury yield to end 2023 at 3%, up from 2.75% in its pre-war outlook, and the S&P 500 to finish next year at 4,800 and no longer 5,150.

CE said the U.S. economy is likely to suffer less from the war than its European counterparts, allowing the Fed more room to raise rates, while stocks are expected to rise across developed markets, "although by much less than in recent years in annualized terms."

---

The issuance of social bonds, a new market segment that got a boost from the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to continue to grow, Douglas Farquhar, client portfolio manager for green bonds at NN Investment Partners, said.

NN IP expects a EUR200 billion issuance in social bonds in 2022, coming on top of the EUR360 billion already issued. Proceeds from social bonds are used to finance new and existing projects with positive social outcomes.

Energy:

Oil gave up early gains to trade lower in Asia. On Wednesday, prices settled at more than 2-week highs as supply worries festered and U.S. inventories declined.

"It's a massive week for oil markets, with meetings of [European Union ] leaders and a NATO summit both happening over the next few days," said Stephen Innes, managing partner at SPI Asset Management.

"A new wave of Russian sanctions is likely, and speculation in the press has focused on the probability of sanctions affecting oil."

ANZ said prices may rise further, with markets still digesting reports that a major Black Sea oil export terminal halted loadings and faces weeks of disruptions.

Metals:

Gold futures extended gains in Asia after they ended Wednesday near a 1-week high, as investors continued to look out for an increasingly hawkish Fed while keeping a close watch on developments in the Russia-Ukraine war.

ANZ said strong demand for safe-haven assets such as gold are likely to persist, driven by higher energy prices, which will put further pressure on inflation.

---

Aluminum prices were higher too as the Ukraine war continues to disrupt the industrial metal's supply chain and "has further tightened the physical liquidity on top of an already-stretched market," ING said.

IG said the market in China "has been on the soft side post-Lunar New Year due to weaker seasonal demand," adding that the recent Covid-19 outbreak has caused some traders to adopt a wait-and-see approach.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

U.S. Renews Tariff Exemptions for Some Chinese Imports

WASHINGTON-The Biden administration said Wednesday that it will renew tariff waivers for 352 categories of goods from China after previously granted exemptions expired.

The items that will be exempted include certain kinds of bicycle parts, electric motors, machinery, chemicals, seafood and duffel bags.

   
 
 
Vladimir Putin Wants Europe to Pay for Gas in Rubles

Russian President Vladimir Putin said he wants his country to only accept rubles in gas deals with European countries and other customers, adding a new financial dimension to tensions over energy supplies while the war in Ukraine rages.

Mr. Putin said Russia would refuse to accept payment for natural-gas supplies in currencies "that have compromised themselves," including dollars and euros, and will switch to payments in rubles, state newswire TASS reported.

   
 
 
Fed's Mester Says 50-Basis-Point Rate Rise Is on Table

Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland President Loretta Mester said Wednesday that the U.S. central bank will need to front load its rate rise campaign with aggressive moves, but she doesn't think this path will send the economy into recession.

To get the federal funds target rate range to 2.5% by year-end, "I think we're going to need to do some 50-basis-points moves," Ms. Mester said in reference to the possibility the central bank will raise rates by half percentage point increments, rather than in more-common quarter percentage point increases.

   
 
 
NATO Estimates Steep Russian Losses in Ukraine as Biden Arrives in Europe

NATO estimated Russia has lost as much as one-fifth of its combat forces sent to Ukraine in about a month of fighting as President Biden and alliance leaders gathered in Brussels for a summit to discuss providing further support to Kyiv to repel the Russian invasion.

24 Mar 2022 01:14 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Shares to Steady as -2-

Between 7,000 and 15,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in Ukraine and up to 40,000 Russian troops in total have been killed, wounded, taken prisoner or are missing, said a senior military official from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Russia may also have lost 10% of its equipment, impairing Moscow's ability to maintain its pace of operations, said another NATO official.

   
 
 
Steel Giant Set to Be First Major Russian Debt Default of Ukraine War

Steel and mining giant Severstal PAO said Citigroup Inc . has frozen interest payments to investors in the company's bonds, setting up what would likely be the first debt default by a major Russian issuer since Moscow invaded Ukraine.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Thursday

06:00/FIN: Feb PPI

07:00/EU: Feb New Commercial Vehicle Registrations in Europe statistics (EU27 + EFTA3)

07:00/NOR: Jan Labour force survey SA, incl unemployment

07:45/FRA: Mar Monthly business survey (goods-producing industries)

08:00/CZE: Mar Business cycle survey (consumer/business confidence)

08:00/SPN: Jan Industrial Orders & Turnover

08:15/FRA: Mar France Flash PMI

08:30/GER: Mar Germany Flash PMI

08:30/SWI: Swiss National Bank monetary policy assessment

09:00/NOR: Norges Bank monetary policy decision and presentation of Monetary Policy Report

09:00/EU: Mar Eurozone Flash PMI

09:00/ICE: Feb Labour Force Survey

09:30/UK: Mar Flash UK PMI

11:00/UK: Mar CBI Distributive Trades Survey

15:59/UKR: 4Q Unemployment

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 24, 2022 01:14 ET (05:14 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220324ei3o0002k


Nilfisk Holding A/S Nilfisk Holding A/S Annual Shareholders Meeting - Final
9462 字
2022 年 3 月 25 日
VIQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
英文
© 2022 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
Presentation

JENS PETER OLSEN: Good afternoon, and welcome to the Annual General Meeting 2022 of Nilfisk. My name is Jens Due Olsen. I'm the Chairman of the meeting -- sorry, the Chairman of the Board of Directors here. We are very happy once again to be able to welcome people physically to our premises here. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board of Directors decided that the Annual General Meeting in both 2020 and '21 would be held as online events only. But since restrictions have now been lifted in Denmark, we are happy once again to be able to welcome those of our shareholders who have decided to put in a physical appearance. Welcome. It's wonderful to see the high turnout.

We do still have the Annual General Meeting as an online event, though, and I would, therefore, also like to welcome those of you who are watching this online. The meeting is held in Danish, but we do have a translation service, which means that if you watch online, you can choose the English language.

After the meeting is over, the report and the presentation will be available on the Nilfisk homepage together with other relevant documents. In 2021, Nilfisk returned to growth.

And before the formal meeting starts, I'd like to use the opportunity to send warm thanks to the management of Nilfisk and to all employees and colleagues. Everyone has contributed and put in an extraordinary effort during the entire year to build these solid results. I'll come back to this in my official report. This year, as in previous years, Marlene Winther Plas will be Chair of the meeting. Welcome to you, Marlene. And I'll now hand over to you.

MARLENE WINTHER PLAS: Thank you very much. and thank you to the Board of Directors for appointing me. As the Chairman of the AGM, it's my job to make sure that everything goes according to plan. And therefore, let me begin with a couple of formalities. As Jens said, this AGM is held physically as well as electronically. For those of you participating electronically, I would like to remind you that you have write your questions in the chat if you want to ask questions. There might be a small delay but if you don't have time to phrase your question, just let us know that a question is coming and we will wait for you to write your question. For those of you attending physically, if you want to take the floor, please approach Heidi over here and tell her your name, and I will introduce you when you will get the floor. And I will ask you to speak from the (inaudible).

We are broadcasting live from the AGM as Jens said. And please turn off your mobile phones so we won't have any interruptions. Minutes will be prepared in Danish as well as English. And as the Chairman of the AGM, I will approve the minutes. If anyone wishes to leave the general meeting, please don't forget to deregister at the Computershare desk outside.

My next task is to conclude whether the AGM has been lawfully convened and is competent to transact the business on the agenda in accordance with the Articles of Association. The requirements in Article 7 of the Articles of Association is fulfilled because the AGM is held in the capital region. It is held physically as well as electronically. It has been convened on the 3rd of March, which is between 5 and 3 weeks before the AGM, and the notice to convene has been published on the company website and also at NASDAQ, and it has been sent by e-mail to the shareholders who has wished to receive it by e-mail.

In the notice, we have informed of the majority requirements that are valid for the adoption of the items on the agenda. That is Item 10B, C and D, which need 2/3 majority. On the company website, we have made available the documents needed in accordance with the DCA and the Articles of Association: That is the notice to convene the agenda and the complete proposal; the audited annual report for 2021; a voting slip if necessary, via proxy or postal vote; and information to the shareholders on how to participate electronically also in the case of any voting action.

On that basis, I can conclude that the Annual General Meeting has been lawfully convened and is quorate. And I would like to ask if there are any comments or questions or objections to this conclusion, that does not seem to be the case. And I can, therefore, conclude that the AGM has been lawfully convened and is quorate.

Let me also say that we have received proxies for today constituting 75.34% of the company capital and the votes present at the AGM. And that means that we already now have a majority for all items on the agenda whether they need a simple majority or 2/3 majority. That leads me to the agenda. Let me just go through it briefly.

Item 1, 2 and 3 on the agenda. The report by the Board of Directors on the company's activities in 2021, the presentation of the audited annual report and the approval of this annual report. And Item 4, the proposal for the distribution of profits will be taken as 1 as in previous years. And it is the Chairman of the Board, Jens Due Olsen, who will give a presentation and the report on last year. Then we have Item 5 about discharge of management and Board of Directors. Item 6, adoption of the remuneration report. This is an advisory vote. Item 7 is the approval of the remuneration of the Board of Directors. After that, we have Item 8, election of Board members. Item 9, election of accountants. And Item 10 is the proposals from the Board of Directors and the shareholders.

We do not have any proposals from the shareholders, but we have 4 proposals from the Board of Directors, which I will go through later in the agenda. Finally, we have Item 11, any other business. That means the agenda is in importance with the Articles of Association. And I will now pass the floor to Jens when it comes to Item 1 to 4 on the agenda.

JENS PETER OLSEN: Thank you, Marlene. Dear shareholders, I'd like to walk you through the development of Nilfisk during 2021 and the most important events. I'll report not only on this, but also on the Board's work and plans for the future. But before we go through the report, I'd like to add something on a personal note because this Annual General Meeting is very special to me as it's going to be the last one that I attend as Chair of the Board of Directors. It was announced in late February that I've decided to step down as Chair of the Board and therefore, I do not seek reelection.

It's been a privilege for me to serve Nilfisk during my long time with the company. 2021 was marked with a fundamental recovery for Nilfisk. The company achieved solid organic growth and record high earnings. We have a new management team in place and a new strategy, and we have set out on a solid path for long-term value creation. And therefore, it feels for me this is the right time to step down and allow for new thinking to enter the Board room.

So let's look at the year in more detail. During the year, we saw a significant recovery in our markets following the downturn in 2020. At the same time, our initiatives to win market shares in the United States and to expand partnerships with large strategic accounts yielded above-market growth for Nilfisk. And we are pleased to see that the company achieved sales well above the level from the pre-pandemic year 2019. Driven by rising labor costs and increased labor shortage, the global market for professional cleaning equipment is a growth industry.

The COVID pandemic has also enhanced the value of clean and -- premises and accelerated the industry's growth momentum. And it is clear that new technologies and service offerings allow for higher customer value creation. Nilfisk is well positioned to benefit from these macro trends and the Board sees a fundamental opportunity for long-term sustainable growth and value creation.

To ensure that we remain at the forefront of these macro trends, the Board of Directors initiated a leadership change at Nilfisk in 2021. We felt it was the right time to get fresh eyes and new skill sets into the executive management team. And so in May, we announced the leadership change with the arrival of Torsten Turling as CEO; and Reinhard Mayer, as CFO. Both of them have substantial experience in successfully executing performance improvement programs and they're both strong leaders. This is a new leadership team in Nilfisk and it is committed to improving the underlying performance and generating organic growth. And during the second half of 2021, the team and the Board conducted a rigorous strategy review to decide on future strategic priorities.

The process helped identify untapped profitable growth opportunities, but also allowed us to reflect upon past execution shortcomings. I'd like to say to Torsten and Reinhard that we are proud that we managed to get you on board to lead this journey.

Unfortunately, both of them are affected by illness today, is not serious, but I'd like to say to both of you that I've enjoyed working with both of you and it's a shame that our collaboration will now come to an end. But I look forward to following your progress.

Let's turn now to business developments and financials for 2021. In the course of the year, we increased order intake across regions and business segments, and we ended the year with a revenue for the total business of just under EUR 1 billion or to be more exact, EUR 995 million. Organic growth in revenue came to 20.7%, which was above growth in the general market.

The growth represents an actual gain in market share, most significantly in the Americas region, where revenue grew organically by 23.8%. With the revenue just under EUR 1 billion, we also surpassed 2019 and the pre-COVID level of sales. We achieved an EBITDA before special items of EUR 144.3 million, an increase of 43.6% from the year before and the significant increase from previous years. It was a record high level.

And finally, this led to an EBITDA margin before special items of 14.5%. This too is an all-time high since we were listed in 2017. It's a solid result, and it was achieved despite significant challenges experienced by not only us, but also the rest of the world in 2021 with substantial increases in both raw material costs and freight costs caused by the global supply chain constraints.

It was a headwind situation, but it was, to some extent, offset with the price increases implemented during 2021, but I'll come back to this a little later in the presentation.

We continue to see these positive developments in demand and revenue quarter after quarter throughout 2021. And because of this strong demand in a combination with solid execution in our key markets, we adjusted our guidance 3 times during the year. All revisions were for a higher revenue growth than first expected with our initial guidance in March because that was the time when COVID-19 restrictions and lockdowns were still the norm.

At that time, we did not foresee the relatively quick normalization in market conditions, which led to a strong demand in combination with our solid execution. As already mentioned, the positive developments in 2021 were seen across regions and geographies. Let's begin with the Americas. Here, we achieved record high organic revenue growth 24%. And it was all markets in the region that delivered robust performance and results above the 2020 and the 2019 levels.

We are pleased to see continued positive and very strong development in the U.S., which is our biggest single market. It accounts for 25% of our total revenue, and it is a strategic growth market for us. Ongoing execution of sales initiatives and continued focus on strategic accounts contributed to the strong performance in 2021.

Canada delivered a robust performance as we continued to develop our dealer business there. And as restrictions from COVID-19 were lifted in Latin America, these markets also saw encouraging growth. In Europe, which together is our biggest market, organic revenue growth came to 18%. We saw continued strong order intake throughout Europe. The region in the south of Europe presented the largest growth backed by a large out of order from a leading retailer. This order includes our first large-scale rollout of a fleet of autonomous cleaning machines to the retail segment. And we went beyond proof of concept and demonstrated that Nilfisk masters the technology and its software-related services, a strong achievement indeed.

In general, the Floor Care Product Group saw the strongest organic growth in Europe in 2021. Across Asia Pacific, there was strong organic growth in revenue, 20%. Despite a somewhat slower recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic in countries such as India, Vietnam and China, where lockdowns were and are more widespread. China and the market in Southeast Asia delivered strong organic growth, but remain below the pre-pandemic activity level, mainly due to the exposure to the hospitality segment and the lengthy lockdown periods.

The Pacific region saw strong recovery coming out of the strict lockdowns with increased demand in the industry sector and among new customers. And finally, I'd also like to mention our consumer business, which continued to execute well in 2021. It benefited from our renewed focus on this business, and the successful launch of a new innovative high-pressure washer range. Organic growth in this business area came to 13%.

The year 2021 brought significant and unprecedented challenges to sourcing, distribution and deliveries. And these challenges as I'm quite sure you also know from the press impacted most industries across the world. Also at Nilfisk, sales were constrained by the shortages in supply and constraints in transportation and bottlenecks that became predominant during the year.

Our order intake in the year far surpassed sales growth, so we ended the year with a record high order backlog. Limitations in material and component supplies and in transportation capacity created an unprecedented situation, which was followed by substantial freight increases.

We took decisive action to mitigate the constraints and to keep our manufacturing and distribution sites operational to ensure that we were able to deliver on an ongoing basis. And as a result, we were able to significantly increase output from our manufacturing sites, although it was not enough to fully satisfy the high order intake. We managed to keep manufacturing and distribution size open and operational despite strict COVID-19 guidelines and measures.

Let's dwell on these figures for a while. It's not easy to deliver 20% more than you did the year before. It takes a lot of things to sort of click properly. We implemented an extraordinary midyear price increase to mitigate the margin impact. And the initiatives taken allowed us to continue serving our customers. At the same time, they made it possible to lower the impact on our earnings, driven by the historic high freight costs and raw material cost increases.

These events also gave us valuable insight into how important it is to ensure supply chain robustness to cater for growth built into our business plan. I'll come back to this shortly. The situation I described just now, of course, impacted the financial situation. Free cash flow decreased by EUR 15 million the year before, totaling EUR 58.5 million. The free cash flow was negatively affected by an increase in working capital. It increased because of inventory level increases. This was done as part of the efforts to mitigate supply chain challenges by securing supply capability, not only now but also going forward.

If you look at the accounts, you can see that the inventory levels were high at year-end. This negative effect on cash flow from higher working capital was more than offset by the positive effects from lower financial expenses and an increased cash flow from higher operating profit.

At year-end 2021, total net interest-bearing debt came to EUR 338.5 million, down EUR 43.5 million from year-end 2020. The reduction was a result of the positive operating profit, which was only partly offset by the increase in working capital. The financial gearing measured here as EBITDA compared to net interest-bearing debt was reduced significantly because of a higher EBITDA and lower net interest-bearing debt. Gearing came from 3.8% year-end 2020 to 2.3% at year-end 2021.

Going forward, we have set the objective of targeting a gearing between 1.5 and 2.0. And that's why today, we propose not to distribute dividends for financial in 2021 as the gearing target in our capital allocation principles has not been met. When gearing is sustainably within the target range, distribution by way of dividend will be expected at around 1/3 of adjusted profit after tax. Additional capital will be distributed via share buybacks.

I'd like to conclude my review of the financial year 2021 by taking a look at the developments in the share price during the year. The figure shows the development in share price in 2021. It increased by more than 63% in the course of the year. In comparison, the share price of OMX Copenhagen Mid Cap indexed 28%. But let's leave 2021 behind us for a moment and take a look at our financial guidance and strategy review. But before we look at the outlook for 2022, I have a couple of words to the current situation in Europe.

At Nilfisk, we are deeply concerned about the continued Russian invasion of Ukraine. Nilfisk expresses deep concern for and sympathy with the Ukrainian people and those fleeing from their home country. And we are hoping for a peaceful resolution soon. As a consequence of the situation, we have decided to suspend all our business in Russia. Nilfisk has a wholly owned Russian subsidiary providing sales and service in Russia with over 60 employees. Effective March 4, we have suspended all business activities with and in Russia, including stopping the import of products and parts into the country. Our colleagues have been sent home with pay, although payment restrictions make this -- makes this increasingly challenging. Nilfisk Russia provides sales and services to Belarus and these activities are also suspended.

Let me here tell you that the financial impact of this is immaterial to Nilfisk as Russia is around 1% of our total revenue. Of course, Nilfisk complies with applicable official sanctions and export restrictions in our global business. This includes sanctions and restrictions already in place before this crisis. And our key actions in complying with the most recent actions have until the full stop of business in Russia included screening customer orders against updated sanction lists, and ensuring that we do not export any of the ordinary commercial items that the EU and the U.S. have restricted to limit exports.

We continue to monitor sanctions to ensure full compliance. As a global company with almost 5,000 employees of various nationalities, we would like to express our sympathy to everyone who is impacted by this conflict one way or another. We are contemplating to see how we can help to alleviate the big impact in neighboring countries through our subsidiaries in Poland and Hungary.

Just this week, we have initiated an internal donation campaign across our global organization to raise money for the victims. Nilfisk will double up the amount donated. This campaign is handled in collaboration with the Red Cross and UNICEF. And with those words, let's now move on to our financial outlook for 2022.

For 2022, we expect organic revenue growth to be in the range between 4% and 7%. We expect that the continued market demand, a strong order book and Nilfisk's pricing actions will drive organic revenue growth. We assume a continuation of the global economic recovery after COVID-19 and that the supply chain challenges do not worsen. In addition to ensuring growth, profitability is also key.

In 2022, we plan to invest in our growth initiatives in line with revenue growth, while maintaining a prudent cost management principle. The gross margin is expected to be influenced by remaining high freight and raw material costs and the overall supply chain uncertainty. We expect an EBITDA margin before special items in the range of 13.5% to 15.5%.

As I mentioned before, Nilfisk conducted a thorough strategy review during the second half of 2021 to decide on future strategic priorities. This process helped identify untapped profitable growth opportunities, but also to reflect upon past execution shortcomings.

The conclusions of the strategy review have been captured in a solid 5-year business plan focused on enabling long-term sustainable growth as well as detailing the road map for successful implementation. At the same time, we believe it's Nilfisk fundamental responsibility to lead the way on environmental, social and governance-related matters, also referred to as ESG, and we have enhanced our ambitions and commitments with sustainability.

Our consolidated ambitions are described and formulated in a 5-year business plan, named business plan 2026, focused on enabling long-term sustainable growth. The Board of Directors has great confidence in management's ability to execute and deliver on this plan. We introduced it in our annual report and our investor presentation on February 25, and the plans will be further elaborated on our Capital Market Day for institutional investors and analysts, which will take place on the 5th of April here at Nilfisk headquarters in Brondby.

Our business plan 2026 is built around a strong value proposition, how Nilfisk can create value for its customers. Customer centricity is key and will be incorporated into all processes to ensure that innovation and new technologies are brought into play to improve both efficiency and usability for our customers. At the same time, the business plan 2026 has a strong sustainability commitment to meet the increasing demands from both society and our customers.

The strategy review process has clearly identified 5 growth platforms and optimization opportunities that altogether offer significant potential for value creation. These initiatives include developing service as a business, which is today about 30% of Nilfisk migrating from a more reactive repair model to proactively focusing on providing a comprehensive solution. It's about complementing the product offer with a range of services throughout the utilization life cycle and thereby delivering a customer needs-oriented outcome.

Another priority involves plans to ensure growth in large-scale markets. Here, the U.S. market is of particular importance but also the implementation of a more segmented go-to-market approach to further strengthen the position in European markets. The shortages in supply and constraints in transportation in 2021, which I mentioned before, were a true stress test to us. And these constraints made us painfully aware that we need to strengthen the robustness of our supply chain.

We need to add growth capacity to be able to cater for the growth that we have built into the business plan and to help us drive efficiency gains and savings. This will be a fundamental optimization opportunity for us. The business plan 2026 not only makes clear choices about strategic priorities, but is also backed up by detailed implementation plans. Reliable execution is key to success, and the plan is explicitly about building a powerful execution engine with proven methods to translate strategic priorities into impactful implementation and with clear metrics to track.

Over time, this will build a strong execution culture and craft new ways of working. This is one of the major differences from previous strategies and a very strong asset in the business plan 2026. We have developed a business plan that steers Nilfisk towards long-term sustainable growth. Our 2026 target is to reach a level between EUR 1.2 billion and EUR 1.3 billion in revenue. Acquisitions may become relevant medium term, but they are not included in this revenue target.

To ensure that growth is profitable, we target an EBITDA margin before special items above 16% in 2026. We back our ambitions for growth and sustainability with investments. This means we expect CapEx in the range of 3% to 4% of sales per year towards 2026. After an initial investment phase, CapEx is expected to trend down towards the long-term sustainable level of 3% of sales.

Finally, we have set a new target for our gearing in the range of 1.5 to 2 towards 2026. In addition to these targets, we've also set targets for sustainability towards 2030. Let's move to the next page for a closer look.

At Nilfisk, we acknowledge the importance of making a serious effort to reduce our climate footprint. Our strengthened focus on reducing the company's carbon footprint includes commitments to define our efforts on climate action and reach very ambitious sustainability targets, lowering Nilfisk's total carbon emissions.

During 2021, we further detailed our efforts on climate action. Nilfisk has committed to the science-based targets initiative, the only global initiative that directly links a company's carbon emission targets to the Paris agreement and the associated global efforts.

These commitments were reinforced during 2021 with a third-party validation of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 targets related to direct and indirect emissions operations. And the assessment and identification of targets on Scope 3 related to emissions from the use of sold products. All targets have been approved by science-based target initiative, marking a significant milestone in our climate action efforts.

We are committed to reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 35% by 2030. And to reducing scope greenhouse gas emissions from use of sold products by 48%, measured by unit of gross profit also by 2030. Also, we have committed to wider sustainability targets on important social parameters, including gender diversity in our leadership layers, introducing a 25% target for women in senior leadership by 2026. This figure is 14% today. Our ESG work are detailed in the CSR report, which I will encourage all of you to read. The report is available on our homepage.

Now moving on to the work of the Board of Directors. We have a fixed plan for meetings throughout the year for the Board and the individual committees. Here, you can see an overview of the meetings held in 2021. Because of the continued lockdown and restrictions related to COVID, many of these meetings were held online in the first half of the year. Thankfully, we were able to meet in person in the second half as restrictions lifted.

On top of the meetings listed here, there have been many telephone calls and teleconferences and a large number of informal meetings. At the same time, we've had a close cooperation with the management team in Nilfisk, not least our new members. The election of Board members is addressed under Item #8 at this Annual General Meeting.

I've already mentioned that I will not be running for reelection and will step down from the Board as of today. This overview shows the current members and future candidates for the Board of Directors. Our Chair of the AGM, Marlene Winther Plas, will go through the details regarding the election later in the agenda.

Before handing over to Marlene, let me just add a couple of comments. As we communicated, in a company announcement on the 17th of March, the current Board member, Jutta af Rosenborg has agreed to make ourself available for reelection. Consequently, the Board of Directors proposes reelection for a 1-year term of Jutta under Item 8 of the agenda. I'm very happy with Jutta's decision and that she can stay with the Board. Jutta is a strong resource in the work of the Board of Directors. And having her stay on for 1 more year will also support the new chair in the transition and the overlap from independent members. So thank you for that, Jutta.

Also, let me briefly comment on the 4 employee-elected Board members here. The election term of the previous employee-elected Board members expires today. So the employees of Nilfisk AS have recently elected 4 new members. Gerner Raj Anderson, who was reelected from the last election period and Claus Dalmose, Nadia Roya Damiri and Marcus Faber Kappendrup.

Even though I, myself, am leaving, I would like to welcome all 4 of you to the Board. The employee representatives have a seat at the table as any of the other Board members, and they have unique perspective to bring to the table because of their often long engagement with the company.

Bringing that unique internal insight into play, along with other qualifications and a genuine urge to contribute to developing Nilfisk is key. And I wish you all the best of luck with this new opportunity. Welcome. As Chair of the Nomination Committee, Rene Svendsen-Tune will cover the proposed Board compensation and the remuneration report later in the agenda.

This brings me to the final comments in this Chairman's report. On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank our shareholders for your continued support and engagement in Nilfisk.

I would also like to thank our almost 5,000 employees for their continued engagement and contribution to Nilfisk. You have done a remarkable job during 2021, ensuring that Nilfisk has returned to growth and laid the path for the future. That also goes for the Nilfisk leadership team. Once again, welcome to Torsten Turling and Reinhard Mayer and to the entire leadership team, I would like to thank you your dedication and will to succeed. It's been an absolute pleasure to work with all of you during the past years.

And with this, I will hand back to you, Marlene. Thank you.

MARLENE WINTHER PLAS: Thank you. Well, we've now covered the first 4 items on the agenda. And we had -- I should note annual report where the auditors have given the financial statements and unqualified endorsement. And now let's hear questions and comments from shareholders. We have the first speaker ready.

KARSTEN KRISTIANSEN: Thank you. My name is Karsten Kristiansen. I represent the Danish Association of Shareholders. I am also a shareholder myself in Nilfisk. First of all, thank you to the Chairman of the Board. for a good report. As we also heard, Nilfisk achieved revenue at just under EUR 1 billion. And solid growth, 20.7%. But when we look at sales over several years, it doesn't look so fantastic. Actually, I think sales have been more or less flat. But I also think you should be commended for good earnings and an EBITDA margin of 14.5%, and now growth going forward.

In the report, we heard expectations for 2022 will be 4% to 7%. And to compare, I look at Tennant's guidance and they say 5 and -- 4.5% to 8.5%. So we are somewhat below, but still doing okay. But just the question to the Chairman. Could you explain whether we can expect the same growth rates also in 2026, which is a year that the current strategy ends?

In the report, we also see how sales are distributed on different parts of the world, the Americas, Europe and Asia. And most of the sales are in Europe, 61%, whereas the Americas account for about 30% and 9% comes from the Asian market. And if we compare that with Tennant, their sales in Europe are 30% total, whereas the Americas accounts for 60% and Asia 10%.

So actually, I think it looks as if Nilfisk is a company that has a strong foothold in Europe, whereas Tennant has a strong foothold in the United -- in the Americas. But what about Asia? And the rest of the world? We sell our products in more than 100 countries. And with the world market that represents USD 500 billion and all the small operators that exist in the market with revenue up to [$150] million. I'd like to hear you explain a bit about the Asian market. I know that our market in the Americas is important. But what about Asia? Couldn't you please explain a bit more about the Asian market because it appears to have a lot of small [actors]. So could you explain more about Nilfisk's view of the Asian market? That is my question to you.

And I also would like to call upon our large shareholders as follows: 2 years ago, before the pandemic, I asked our large shareholders to speak up at the General Meeting of Nilfisk and explain what they think about the company's developments. And I'd like to repeat this encouragement and invitation now because in my association, we want investments to be transparent, and therefore, it would be relevant also in Nilfisk to hear what the large shareholders think of the company and its current developments.

And to conclude, I hear the Chairman's last AGM. So I'd like to say thank you very much for a job well done and good discussions at the AGMs. And with these words and questions, I'd like to say thank you very much for your attention.

JENS PETER OLSEN: Thank you very much. I saw you yesterday at another AGM. It's nice to see each other so much, I think.

Well, thank you for very relevant and pertinent questions. You talked about developments in sales over multiannual period and that sales are flat. And that is kind of true, but I also have some comments. Nilfisk achieved in 2021 a revenue of just under EUR 1 billion, which is way above the level in 2020. But also above 2019, the pre-pandemic level. If we go back further in time and look at 2017 and 2018, revenue was a bit above last year's level, but that is also because we were a different business at the time for a number of years from 2018 and onwards, we have carried out a number of divestments of business units in areas that are no longer considered core business.

For instance, outdoor machinery, which actually was a considerable business area. And as a result, there was a decline in turnover, but also growth in revenues. The 3% per annum that you said is our assessment of annual growth at the global market for professional cleaning equipment. Well, no matter where we land in this sector, our growth will be higher than that. You also touched upon the global market and the distribution of our revenue on Americas, Europe and Asia. And what did we think of the Asian market, was your question.

Well, we have been present in China and in the markets in Southeast Asia for decades, and we have actually achieved a considerable stronghold or foothold. But it's a different market. It has a lot of small and local and medium-sized operators and competition is different there. And at the same time, in Asia, the level of wages is lower. So the penetration of cleaning equipment is not as -- at the same level as we see it elsewhere because of these low pay levels for cleaners.

And then we have also had an effect of the pandemic with massive lockdowns, in particular, in China, but we also see that things are now slowly returning to normal. And then we have the entertainment industry, restaurants, airports, shopping centers and they generated steep growth in 2021, but there's still a long way to go before we are back to a full picture there. But we also see growing costs for cleaners, and we also see a lack of labor. And we also see that there's also much focus on sustainability. And here, we have a strong position, but results are not going to come in a year or 2.

So for the time being, we'll be focusing on Europe and the Americas and service. So I hope that I have now answered your questions. And once again, thank you for your active contributions at our AGMs. And then you asked our major shareholders to be more active at the AGMs, and I will gladly pass on that invitation to them myself. And now the Chairman of the meeting.

MARLENE WINTHER PLAS: Thank you very much. I'd like to hear if there are other comments or contributions from shareholders. That doesn't seem to be the case. I find then that the Board's report with such comments adds were added today have been approved and that the AGM has approved the audited annual report for 2021 and also the proposal for a carryover of the profit for the year. And then a short break.

(Break)

MARLENE WINTHER PLAS: So break over. Let's proceed to Item 5, which is discharge of liability for members of Board and executive management, any comments from shareholders. That doesn't appear to be the case. I find that the AGM has approved this item. Item 6 presentation and advisory vote on the remuneration report. The company prepares every year remuneration report, which is presented to the AGM for an advisory vote that follows from Danish company law. It is not binding for the company. But is a question of making sure that remuneration policy is complied with. I would like to hear if there are any comments or questions to the remuneration report. It's available on the company's website. In keeping with the rest of the relevant documents, and just to explain.

The question was, where can you find that remuneration report? And could it be shown here? The thing is that it is available on the company's website in keeping with the annual report and the remuneration policy. Prior to the meeting, we have not prepared a slide with the highlights from the remuneration report, but you can find it on the company's website. We need your name because we are broadcasting live and therefore, I cannot sort of allow this to -- I cannot leave the podium. So could you please turn to Heidi over there and have your name put down?

(Operator Instructions) Does the Board have any comments to this, Chair, Vice Chair?

JENS PETER OLSEN: Well, I can try as the Chairman of the Board. We have published annual report, remuneration report, CSR reports. So I don't know whether you have any specific questions. And there's a lot of talk now without a microphone. The interpreter just apologized, we cannot hear what the shareholder is saying.

But you can all -- you can file all that. It is -- we don't send things to shareholders. And I want you to come up here now because we need to involve everyone in what you're saying, but we are making everything available on the website.

UNIDENTIFIED SHAREHOLDER: I am Stefan (inaudible). At the AGM of a professional company, this would be shown clearly the fees to Board members who will appear in the report and how much to the Chairman, 2x or 3x, what the bonuses are? What the share options are? And I would like to have it presented to the AGM. That's the purpose of the proposal. It's part of Danish legislation company law.

JENS PETER OLSEN: Well, I will try to the best of my abilities, as the Chairman of the Board. To sum up our remuneration report. I'll be fairly brief, and then I can answer questions. And all questions are welcome, of course. Let's begin with the fees to the Board. This is all in euro in the remuneration report.

An ordinary member gets EUR 40,000, 2x that to the deputy Chair, 3x that to the Chairs. And if the Chair participates in Board committees, it does not trigger a fee on top of this. Then there are a number of Board committees. We have an audit committee where the Chair gets EUR 26,800. An ordinary member gets EUR 13,400 as half of the Chairs fee. And then we have a -- excuse me, our remuneration committee, where the fee is half of that paid to members of the Audit Committee EUR 6,700 to the ordinary member and double that to the Chair. We will have 2 members of committees.

And then we have another committee, EUR 13,400 for the Chair and the Chair -- and half of that to an ordinary member. And then early in the year, we had a U.S. committee, and we have also had a PMO committee, and these committees did not trigger the payment of any fee to members. So total EUR 559,600 in total to the Board. That was the Board of Directors.

Then we have the executive management. And the thing is that there is a base fee and a short-term bonus and a long-term bonus. And there may be some other things, company car and free phone, et cetera, et cetera. There are restrictions in -- if we take the total remuneration paid to a member of the executive management. That's our benchmark. And then we'll take a look at the fixed and the variable. A member of the executive management might this an example, get between 0% and 60% of the fixed pay in the short-term bonus, but it depends upon the fulfillment of certain conditions. There will be personal targets and financial target. And then there's long-term bonus, which takes the form of conditional share programs. Why conditional because you only get the options if you achieve specific targets, you can get 0 or a certain amount in shares. And typically, it will be 50% of the basic pay that you get in value in conditional shares, options. If there is excess fulfillment of objectives, you will get 100%. And if you don't meet the objectives, you may go down to 0%.

And you get that 3% after the allocation. And we have a limitation in Nilfisk to the effect that the value of the long-term program after 3 years when it is calculated cannot account for more than 3x the base salary. Because we want to avoid these huge fluctuations. We rather want members of the executive management to make money year in, year out.

The targets that we have used for bonus allocations in 2021. As far as the short-term program was concerned, it was organic growth, it was EBITDA, it was working capital, and these 3 objectives together accounted for 75% of the total bonus payment. And then we also had customer satisfaction, 15%. This is measured on a very specific score. And employee engagement score, 10%.

The long-term targets may change from 1 year to the next. At the present time, it is earnings and total return to shareholders. Share price increases and dividends. And if there is excess fulfillment of this, then you get the maximum allocation under the share program.

In 2021, we had the special situation that we had to say goodbye to some members of the executive management and hello to new ones. And this is also reflected in the remuneration report. When we say goodbye to members of the executive management, we have to pay out some sort of allowance for a given period. This is stated in the contract. And Hans (inaudible), the former CEO; and Prisca (inaudible), our former CFO, got such amounts paid out, and they appear in the remuneration report. Mr. Lots pay plus this payment accounted to 4 -- rose to EUR 4 million. And Torsten Turling and Mr. Mayer, they, of course, get the pay package that we have negotiated with them, but they also get a bonus when they sign -- the sign-on bonus and then compensation for the bonus lost at your previous place of work. This is when you want people to join the company and perhaps join sooner than anticipated.

And to Torsten Turling, the amount is EUR 2.3 million and to Mr. Mayer, EUR 1.3 million, approximate figures. And besides -- but our Vice Chair will get back to that. There's also a proposal to increase the remuneration to Board members for 2022. And this is very much sort of impromptu and off the cuff. I hope this was satisfactory.

MARLENE WINTHER PLAS: Thank you very much. Are there any other comments to this item or questions? There is an encouragement from the room to show this on the screen, and that has been duly noted. Thank you very much for that suggestion. If there are no further comments regarding this item, I will conclude that the Annual General Meeting has adopted the remuneration report.

That leads me to Item 7, which is the remuneration for the Board of Directors, as mentioned by Jens. And there's a proposal that the fee for the Board to be increased by DKK 25,000. That is the first time since the listing of the company in 2017. And here, I give the floor to Vice Chairman, Rene Svendsen-Tune.

RENE SVENDSEN-TUNE, INDEPENDENT DEPUTY CHAIRMAN, NILFISK HOLDING A/S: Thank you very much. My name is Rene Svendsen-Tune. I'm the Vice Chair of the Chairman of the Board. I'm also the Chairman of the Nomination Committee. And let me briefly comment on the proposal to increase the fee for the Board members with DKK 25,000. The remuneration has been unchanged since the listing in 2017. And today, we propose to increase the base fee from DKK 300,000 to DKK 325,000.

This proposal is based on 2 main arguments: firstly, that we want to be able to attract the best possible candidates for the Board of Nilfisk; and secondly, that we want to be in line with Danish market practice. The Board has carried out an external benchmarking during the course of the year, as Jens said, and we can see that base fees have increased during 2021, and we expect a more generalized increase during 2022 as well.

And on that basis, we propose an increase of the base fee for the Board members. Let me underline that the supplementary fee for the Chairman and Vice Chairman and the members of the committees will stay at the same level and that these fees also appear from the presentation and have been described in the notice convening the AGM.

MARLENE WINTHER PLAS: Thank you very much, Rene. Are there any questions under Item 7? That does not seem to be the case. I can, therefore, conclude that the general meeting has adopted this proposal.

That leads me to item 8, which is the election of Board members. According to the Articles of Association, the general meeting elected Board members should be between 5 and 8 and they are elected each year on the Annual General Meetings, and they are up for reelection. Here the Board proposes, as Jens mentioned before, to reelect (inaudible), Thomas Lau Schleicher, Richard Bisson, Are Dragesund, Franck Falezan and Jutta af Rosenborg. As mentioned before, Jens Due Olsen does not wish to stand for reelection. The Board also proposes election of Peter Nilsson. And here, I will give the floor to Rene Svendsen-Tune once again.

RENE SVENDSEN-TUNE: Thank you very much, Marlene. On behalf of the Board members, I would like to say a few words about the nomination of Peter Nilsson. Peter Nilsson is with us here today. Please stand up, if you will. Welcome.

As Marlene said, the other Board members nominate Peter Nilsson to be elected as a new member of the Board. Peter has a great experience with the management of listed companies, not least with the implementation of business models, service models. And he is now the Chairman of the Board in [Linde] Group. He has great experience with Board work in general and he also has experience from executive management in a number of companies. We believe that Peter is a strong candidate for our Board, who will supplement our work very well. And he has the experience and the competencies to take on this position. So a strong recommendation from the existing board members.

MARLENE WINTHER PLAS: Thank you very much. Are there any other candidates for the Board? That does not seem to be the case. Therefore, the Board elected by the Annual General Meeting will consist of the following members until next year, Peter Nilsson; Rene Svendsen-Tune, Thomas Lau Schleicher, Richard Bisson, Franck Falezan and Jutta af Rosenborg.

I congratulate all of you the election for the Board. That leads me to Item 9 on the agenda, the election of auditor. Here, the Board of Directors proposes that Deloitte be reelected, company auditors, and that is in line with the recommendation from the Audit Committee. Are there any other suggestions or proposals for an alternative auditor? That is not the case. That means that Deloitte has been reelected. Congratulations. Then we have the proposals from the Board of Directors.

As I said before, there are no proposals from shareholders. We have a total of 4 proposals. Let's take them one at a time. The first proposal has to do with an update to the company's remuneration policy, making sure that it appears that the standard liability insurance has been a range for members of Board and executive management. It is also described that if the insurance does not provide cover in certain situation, the company will cover claims raised against a Board member. I will not go through this proposal in detail because it is stated very clearly in the convening notice. And I'd like to hear if there are comments, questions from shareholders. That doesn't seem to be the case. So I find that the AGM has approved the first proposal on the list of Board proposals.

The second proposal has to do with a change and prolongation of authorization to the Board of Directors to raise the company's capital, both with and without preemptive rights for shareholders. And this proposal is put forward because the current authorization expires on the ninth of October this year. And the proposal is to extend it until the 24th of March 2027. I will not read out these proposals verbatim because they are stated clearly in the convening notice to the general meeting. Are there any questions, comments or objections in relation to this? That doesn't seem to be the case. I find that the AGM has approved the second proposal from the Board.

The third proposal is the question of terminating the authorization to issue warrants contained in Article 4 of the Articles of Association. The thing is that this provision is no longer relevant, and that's why the proposal is to delete it in its entirety from the Articles of Association. Any questions, comments or objections? That is not the case. I find that the AGM has approved the third proposal from the Board of Directors.

The fourth proposal is about extending and changing the authorization to the Board of Directors to raise loans against issuing bonds. And the thing is that the current authorization expires on the 9th of October this year. And therefore, the Board proposes that it be extended until the 24th of March with [27], I will not read it out. It is explained very clearly in the convening notice. Any questions, comments or objections? That is not the case. I find that the AGM has approved the fourth proposal from the Board of Directors, which brings us to Item 11.

The last item on the agenda, as you know, you cannot make any resolutions under Item 11 that have a binding effect. But it is possible to bring up any question that you can think of. We have received nothing from the online participants in the course of the meeting. But if anyone in the room here has something to say, now is the time. That is not the case. I find that we have now transacted all the business on the agenda. Thank you for good order and discipline. And I like to hand over to the new Chairman of the Board of Directors.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thank you very much, Marlene. Thank you for the chance to give you a few concluding remarks. But before I do that, I think on behalf of all of us, I would like to thank you, Jens. After many years, you have now chosen to step down and the company is well positioned. You've hired a new executive management. You've launched a new strategy. Everything is in place. You have been here for a long time. I would like to thank you for a good cooperation between the 2 of us. It's been a pleasure. It's been honest. It's been constructive. It's been challenging. And I think we should all give Jens a round of applause and a big thank you.

So dear shareholders. Thank you for your time today. Thank you for good and relevant questions from the room. And thank you for taking an interest and being present here in the room as well as at home following the AGM online. Thank you to Marlene for navigating us safely through the AGM. Thank you to the interpreters, the technicians, the employees of Nilfisk and everyone who has contributed to a good general meeting once again.

Finally, let me say that it's been a true pleasure to see people in the room again and being able to attend an Annual General Meeting with a physical attendance here. I'm glad we can have an audience here at the Nilfisk headquarters once again.

Also, thank you to you who follow proceedings online. I think we have struck a good balance between physical attendance and the opportunity to follow the AGM online. That's a good mix that covers all needs, and I think that will be the model we will make use of also in the future. So thank you all for your constructive contributions. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 FNDW000020220326ei3p0025t


UPDATE 3-Beer giants Heineken and Carslberg join exodus from Russia
559 字
2022 年 3 月 28 日 14:28 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
* Heineken, Carlsberg to quit Russian market

* InBev joint venture remains

* Russia accounts for 10% of Carlsberg's sales

* Heineken seeks to transfer business but won't profit from sale (Adds Carlsberg exit)

By Toby Sterling and Jacob Gronholt-Pedersen

AMSTERDAM/COPENHAGEN March 28 (Reuters) - Brewing giants Carlsberg and Heineken said on Monday they would quit Russia, joining an exodus of Western companies as pressure grows on Moscow following its invasion of Ukraine.

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has urged international companies to turn their backs on the Russian market after the launch last month of what Moscow termed a "special military operation" against its neighbour.

For Carlsberg, the Western brewer most exposed to Russia, the exit would result in a "substantial non-cash impairment charge" this year, it said without providing further details.

The company holds a 27% share of the local market through its ownership of the country's biggest brewer, Baltika.

"We have taken the difficult and immediate decision to seek a full disposal of our business in Russia, which we believe is the right thing to do in the current environment," Carlsberg said. "Upon completion we will have no presence in Russia."

The company's shares, which have fallen by roughly a quarter since the start of the invasion, traded 4.2% higher on Monday, heading for their best day since November 2020.

Heineken, the third largest brewer in Russia, earlier said it was aiming for an "orderly transfer" of its local business, which accounts for just 2% of total sales, reducing its operations during a transition period to minimise the risk of nationalisation.

The Dutch brewer expects to book related charges of around 400 million euros ($438 million) and said it would guarantee the salaries of its 1,800 employees in Russia until the end of the year.

"We have concluded that Heineken's ownership of the business in Russia is no longer sustainable nor viable," the company said in a statement, adding that it would not profit from any transfer of ownership.

Its shares were up 0.3% by 1423 GMT.

Carlsberg last year generated 10% of its total revenue and 6% of its operating profit in Russia, where it has eight breweries and 8,400 employees. It took full control of Baltika in 2008 but has faced sluggish sales amid a sanction-hit economy and regulations to curb alcohol abuse.

"The announcement that Carlsberg will leave Russia should help to clear the air and removes the overhang risk," Jefferies analysts wrote in a research note.

The Danish brewer's non-current assets in Russia stood at 19.2 billion Danish crowns ($2.83 billion) at the end of 2021, amounting to around 15% of total assets or 44% of its total equity, its annual report showed.

Russia's second largest brewer is a joint venture owned by Turkey's Anadolu Efes and Belgium's InBev.

InBev said earlier in March it would stop selling Bud beer in Russia and forego profits from the joint venture, which has 11 breweries and 3,500 employees in the country. ($1 = 0.9125 euros) ($1 = 6.7802 Danish crowns) (Reporting by Sarah Morland, Philip Blenkinsop, Toby Sterling, Stine Jacobsen and Jacob Gronholt-Pedersen; editing by John Stonestreet, Kirsten Donovan)

Released: 2022-3-28T15:28:28.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220328ei3s013tq


Towards net zero emissions in Denmark No. of pages: 75
OECD Economics Department Working Papers, 2022 年 3 月 28 日, 39212 字, (英文)
OECD Economics Department Working Papers No. 1705Towards net zero emissionsin DenmarkAndrew Barker,Hélène Blake,Filippo MariaD’Arcangelo,Patrick Lenainhttps://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5b40df8f-en Organisation for Economic Co-operation and ...

LiqTech International Inc. - Annual Report (Form 10-K)
LiqTech International Inc. published this content on 31 Mar 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 31 Mar 2022 12:54:49 UTC.
45583 字
2022 年 3 月 31 日
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Filings
SAEXC
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/664750B78087489AE29E08B84EC01C61EE026C33]

Annual Report (Form 10-K)

liqt20211231_10k.htm

Table of Contents

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

☒

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021

☐

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number: 001-36210

LiqTech International, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Nevada                                                         20-1431677
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
                                                               

Industriparken 22C, DK 2750Ballerup,Denmark
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: +4531315941

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class            Trading symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $0.001 par value LIQT              The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Table of Contents

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer ☐ Accelerated filer         ☐
Non-accelerated filer   ☒ Smaller reporting company ☒
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

On June 30, 2021, the aggregate market value of the common stock outstanding and held by non-affiliates (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933) of the registrant based on the closing price of the registrant's common stock of $7.32 per share on June 30, 2021 was $154,426,805. As of March 24, 2022, there were 21,352,688 shares of common stock, $0.001 par value per share, outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

None.

Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 Page
PART I
 Item 1     Business                                                                                            1
 Item 1A    Risk Factors                                                                                        10
 Item 1B    Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                           23
 Item 2     Properties                                                                                          24
 Item 3     Legal Proceedings                                                                                   24
 Item 4     Mine Safety Disclosures                                                                             24
PART II
 Item 5     Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities24
 Item 6     Selected Financial Data                                                                             24
 Item 7     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations               25
 Item 7A    Quantitative and Qualit28ative Disclosures About Market Risk                                        34
 Item 8     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                         35
 Item 9     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                64
 Item 9A    Controls and Procedures                                                                             64
 Item 9B    Other Information                                                                                   65
 Item 9C    Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections                                  65 
PART III
 Item 10    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                              66
 Item 11    Executive Compensation                                                                              71
 Item 12    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters      73
 Item 13    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence                           75
 Item 14    Principal Accountant Fees and Services                                                              76
PART IV
 Item 15    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules                                                          77
 Signatures 81
Table of Contents

Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Industry Data

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding the plans and objectives of management for future operations and market trends and expectations. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the following words: "may," "could," "would," "should," "expect," "intend," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "approximately," "estimate," "predict," "project," "potential" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although the absence of these words does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward-looking.

The forward-looking statements included herein are based on current expectations that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Our plans and objectives are based, in part, on assumptions involving the continued expansion of our business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. This is especially underlined by the anticipated impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company, including the related effects to our business operations, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. Although we believe that our assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.

Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning:

●

The COVID-19 outbreak and its effects on our business operations and financial condition;

●

Our dependence on a few major customers for a significant portion of our revenue and the potential adverse effects to our financial condition if we fail to maintain or develop our relationship with one or more of these major customers;

●

The impact on our business operations and financial condition if we fail to raise additional funds;

●

The potential adverse effects to our business operations and financial condition by changes in China's political, social, regulatory, or economic environments;

●

The potential interruption or delay of raw materials from China caused by restrictions on freight and transportation routes;

●

The exposure to potentially adverse tax consequences on our international operations;

●

The impact to our business operations by adverse conditions or events affecting the marine transportation industries;

●

Our ability to adapt to potentially adverse changes in global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory, and political developments;

●

Our dependence on the expertise and experience of our management team;

●

Our future reliance on qualified additional personnel to expand our business;

●

Our ability to compete in the regulatory landscape with continued enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and the potential further tightening of emission standards worldwide;

●

Our dependence on the funding for emissions control programs;

●

Our ability to adapt to and manage our expected growth;

●

Our ability to compete under constantly changing governmental standards by which our products are evaluated;

●

The potential monetary costs of defending our intellectual property rights;

●

Our potential inability to successfully protect our intellectual property rights;

Table of Contents

●

The possibility of a dispute over intellectual property developed in conjunction with third parties we have contractual relationships with;

●

The possibility that we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, limit or cancel our intellectual property rights, or divert time and efforts away from our business operations;

●

The potential negative impact to the sales of our products caused by technological advances of our competitors;

●

The adverse effect to our business operations if we fail to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials or fail to obtain raw materials at affordable prices;

●

Our potential reliance on subcontractors or obtain additional manufacturing capacity to meet current demand;

●

The fluctuation and volatility of foreign currencies could adversely impact financial performance;

●

Potential liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures of our products;

●

The possibility that an investor located within the United States may not be able to or find it difficult to enforce any judgments obtained in United States courts because a significant portion of our assets and some of our officers and directors may be located outside of the United States;

●

The possibility that our plan to establish a joint venture in the Middle East may not realize any benefits;

●

The possibility that we may not be able to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, leading to inaccurate reports of our financial results;

●

The possibility of breaches in the security of our information technology systems;

●

The risk of liability regarding compliance issues with environmental laws and regulations;

●

The potential negative impact of more stringent environmental laws and regulations as governmental agencies seek to improve minimum standards;

●

The possibility that enforcement actions to suspend or severely restrict our business operations will be brought against the Company for our failure to comply with laws or regulations and the potential costs of defending against such actions;

Table of Contents

PART I

Forward Looking Statements

Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are "forward-looking statements" regarding the plans and objectives of management for future operations and market trends and expectations. Such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on current expectations that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Our plans and objectives are based, in part, on assumptions involving the continued expansion of our business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. This is especially underlined by the anticipated impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company, including the related effects to our business operations, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. Although we believe that our assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans will be achieved. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.

Item 1.

Business

Overview

LiqTech International, Inc. is a clean technology company that provides state-of-the-art gas and liquid purification products by manufacturing ceramic silicon carbide filters. For more than two decades, we have developed and manufactured products of re-crystallized silicon carbide. We specialize in two business areas: ceramic membranes for liquid filtration and diesel particulate filters (DPFs) to control soot exhaust particles from diesel engines. Using nanotechnology, we develop proprietary products using patented silicon carbide technology. Our products are based on unique silicon carbide membranes that facilitate new applications and improve existing technologies. We market our products from our offices in Denmark and local representatives and distributors across Europe, Middle East and Asia, with the products shipped directly to customers from our production facilities in Denmark.

The terms "LiqTech", "we", "our", "us", the "Company" or any derivative thereof, as used herein, refer to LiqTech International, Inc., a Nevada corporation, together with its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, including LiqTech USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("LiqTech USA"), which owns all of the outstanding equity interest in LiqTech Holding A/S, a Danish limited company, organized under the Danish Act on Limited Companies of the Kingdom of Denmark ("LiqTech Holding"), together with its direct wholly-owned subsidiaries LiqTech Ceramics A/S ("LiqTech Ceramics"), LiqTech Water A/S ("LiqTech Water"), LiqTech Water Projects A/S ("LiqTech Water Projects") and LiqTech Plastics A/S ("LiqTech Plastics"), all Danish limited companies organized under the Danish Act on Limited Companies of the Kingdom of Denmark, and LiqTech NA, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("LiqTech NA"). Collectively, LiqTech USA, LiqTech Holding, LiqTech Ceramics, LiqTech Water, LiqTech Plastics, and LiqTech NA are referred to herein as our "Subsidiaries".

We conduct and manage our operations from our office and manufacturing facilities in the Kingdom of Denmark, more specifically Hobro, Aarhus, and Ballerup in the Copenhagen area. We are currently working to establish manufacturing operations in China.

Our Products

We manufacture and sell a broad range of ceramic membranes and systems for the filtration of liquids and diesel particulate filters to control soot exhaust particles from diesel engines. We also provide plastic parts through the recently acquired BS Plastic A/S for various internal and external industrial applications.

Table of Contents

Silicon Carbide Ceramic Membranes for Liquid Filtration

For more than two decades, LiqTech has developed, manufactured, and sold innovative silicon carbide ceramic filtration technologies for liquid and gas purification. Our product portfolio consists of silicon carbide ceramic filters for liquid purification and diesel particulate filters for gas purification. Based on our continuous R&D, patented technologies, and evolved production methods, we are able to produce state-of-the-art silicon carbide filters.

Our products are manufactured with a silicon carbide ceramic membrane based on patented technology. We are not aware of other companies that make both the substrate (honeycomb) and the membrane (the part that accomplishes the filtering) solely from silicon carbide. Our products are based on the following silicon carbide membrane technologies:

●

CoMem ceramic membranes, which are unique patented technology designed as a tubular membrane. It utilizes a crossflow structure to handle high concentrations of suspended solids found in produced water from the oil and chemical industry, wastewater from industrial processes and manure filtration, and other applications. It offers consistent removal of oil and suspended solids at high throughput rates regardless of feed conditions. We offer onshore and offshore solutions and have extensive experience with produced water streams for fracking, gas condensate, and oil emulsions. We believe our SiC filters are the best alternative to micro-flotation and walnut shell filters due to their cost savings, reduced installation cost, robustness, and reduced downtime. Our chemically inert, plug-and-play membranes are extremely hard, chemically resistant, and durable ceramics with high flux (flow). SiC membranes are stronger, harder, longer-lasting, more temperature-resistant, and recover faster than conventional ceramic or polymeric membranes;

●

Flat sheet membranes (FSM), which are designed for submerged outside-in filtration applications. The FSM is highly applicable for wastewater reuse, groundwater, pre reverse osmosis treatment, and other applications. LiqTech's FSM towers can be customized with different rack sizes and tower heights. The FSMs offer low energy consumption, maximum permeation, innovative rack design, and high flux;

●

Disc membranes, which are designed for the removal of high-suspended solids, oil droplets, and process water. The disc membranes use outside-in filtration and have internal permeation channels, facilitating the removal of the solids. A crossflow effect is generated through the discs' rotation at high velocities, which enables flow cleaning of the filter membrane surface. This principle offers 80% energy savings compared to conventional cross-flow;

●

Aqua Solution®, which integrates a dead-end structural design with cutting-edge membrane technology in a solution specifically designed for applications in the pre-treatment for reverse osmosis, wastewater treatment, and swimming pool and spa water filtration. Our Aqua Solution® offers the same water flow as conventional sand filters, which typically require up to 400 times more space and have pore sizes at least three times larger than our SiC membranes. Moreover, our Aqua Solution® reduces the number of membrane elements, pressure vessels, the water consumption for backwash, and the energy costs by offering high flow capabilities at very low pressure. Also, it eliminates the consumption or maintenance of filter cartridges; and

●

Hybrid Technology Membranes (HTM), which is a new patented asymmetric membrane that combines the desired properties from silicon carbide (SiC) and zirconia (ZrO₂) ceramics. With a pore size of 60 nanometers (nm), it is suitable for ultrafiltration applications. This state-of-the-art membrane technology facilitates new separation processes and new filtration applications.

Table of Contents

Diesel Particulate Filters (DPFs)for Gas Purification

We offer diesel particulate filters for exhaust emission control solutions to the verified retrofit and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) market through our direct sales force. DPF sales are generally made to distributors specializing in sales to end-users. We use a proprietary "nano wash coat" to provide a catalytic coating for anything from diesel particulate filters to catalytic converters. Our DPF products are sold worldwide under the LiqTech brand.

We have developed a robust silicon carbide diesel particulate filter that is especially effective for vehicles that produce a high soot load. If properly maintained, a LiqTech DPF can last as long as the vehicle's engine. Our DPFs are ideal for off-road vehicles because of their strength, chemical non-reactive nature, temperature resilience, and thermal conductivity.

Our DPF filters can handle higher soot loads than filters that do not use a silicon carbide membrane, making them ideal for situations in which engines infrequently reach high enough temperatures to burn off the soot. Examples include:

 ● Garbage trucks;
 ● Port vehicles;
 ● Diesel pickup trucks not carrying a full load;
 ● Off-road construction vehicles that idle for long periods of time; and
 ● Intra-city vehicles that do not reach highway speeds.
Future tightening legislation in the marine industry has also created a new opportunity for our DPF product to reduce black carbon emissions from shipping.

Turnkey Water Treatment Solutions

LiqTech develop, manufacture, and sell liquid filtration systems using our patented silicon carbide technology (sometimes also referred to herein as our "SiC Filters"). Our current focus is on marine scrubber wastewater, hydrocarbon production-derived contaminated water, which we refer to herein as "produced water", removal of heavy metals in mining and energy applications, pre-filtration for reverse osmosis in drinking water, and other industrial applications.

Our SiC ceramic membrane systems have been used in the following applications by our clients:

●

Marine Scrubber Wastewater: We supply water filtration systems for marine scrubber systems that may be employed on ships to reduce sulfur emissions stemming from heavy fuel oil (HFO) operations, allowing vessels to comply with the IMO 2020 sulfur cap. To date, more than 250 water treatment systems have been installed because of orders from European and Asian scrubber technology providers, shipyards, and ship owners.

●

Produced Water: Our membrane systems can be used for the filtration of produced water, which is a byproduct of oil and gas production. The amount of produced water varies from 0.1 to 10 times the amount of oil produced. We have performed testing with major international private and public oil and gas companies. Our solution is market-proven, approved by various international oil and gas companies, and applicable for onshore and offshore operations.

●

Pre-filtration of Reverse Osmosis Drinking Water: To convert seawater or surface water into potable water, the seawater or surface water must be pre-filtered before entering the reverse osmosis membranes. We have a market-proven solution for pre-filtration in reverse osmosis, tested by various customers all over the world.

●

Industrial Applications: We have delivered complete water treatment systems for specific targeted, aggressive fluid applications such as removing heavy metals for energy providers in Denmark and Finland and water treatment systems for mining wastewater for a European mining company. In addition, our membrane systems have achieved meaningful results to reduce OPEX and increase product quality in acidic purification.

Table of Contents

●

Producing Clean Drinking Water: The potential advantages of LiqTech SiC ceramic membranes in drinking water are numerous. Some examples include groundwater removal of precipitated salts such as iron and manganese, surface water removal of organic suspended solids and humic acid, and seawater pre-filtration before reverse osmosis.

●

Food and Beverage Applications: High-quality filtration products for the food and beverage industry significantly reduce chemicals and wastewater taxes by installing a fully automated LiqTech membrane system.

●

Pool and Spa Water: We have supplied several turnkey water filtration systems for medium to very large public swimming pool installations in Europe. Our SiC ceramic membranes provide unique advantages for the commercial pool filtration industry with the smallest footprint on the market, reduced water and chemical consumption, and consistent, high-quality water filtration.

Besides the applications mentioned above utilizing silicon carbide ceramic membranes, LiqTech has many other industrial water treatment applications that do not use ceramic membranes. These applications include:

●

Seawater Reverse Osmosis (SWRO): SWRO represents a brand-new LiqTech solution to turn seawater into potable water using polymeric membranes. Through its high energy efficiency and guaranteed, consistent water quality, SWRO provides one of the most efficient and sustainable solutions to convert seawater into drinkable freshwater. The LiqTech SWRO units are suitable for small commercial vessels, fishing boats, sailing boats, small port applications, and generally all places with access to seawater and where desalinated, potable water is needed.

●

Filter Press: The LiqTech Filter Press is a water sludge treatment system, enabling solid and liquid separation. The filter press can convert sludge into a filter cake consisting of 80% dry matter, depending on the pressure and application. One of the primary purposes of employing a filter press is to reduce discharge handling costs.

●

UV Disinfection: LiqTech is a distributor of UV-C LED Disinfection Systems. UV-C LED disinfection technology can be used to purify water, air, and surfaces. The solution provides reliable and low-cost disinfection to protect human health.

Highly Flexible & Innovative Plastic Manufacturing

LiqTech provides highly flexible and innovative plastics manufacturing, focusing on machining, welding, bending, and solvent cementing. With an intense focus on customer demands, LiqTech serves market leaders in the cleantech, pharma, food, healthcare, and graphics industries.

Table of Contents

Our Competitive Strengths

Our products compete with other filters that are made of ceramic and polymeric materials. Most of our competitors are large industrial companies; however, we believe our patented technology allows us to produce high-quality products that provide an advantage over many of our direct and, in many cases, larger competitors. We intend to continue investing in R&D with the aim of developing new technologies and improving our existing products to reinforce our competitive advantages, retain our existing customers, and acquire new customers.

We believe the following strengths underpin our ability to increase revenue and profitability:

●

Advantages of Silicon Carbide Membranes: Our liquid filtration and diesel exhaust products utilize silicon carbide membranes, which have unique qualities that we believe make our products more effective than those of our competitors. Unlike filtration products made of aluminum oxide, silicon carbide membranes are chemically inert and temperature resistant. Furthermore, silicon carbide membranes exhibit a high degree of hydrophilicity (the tendency of a surface to become wet or absorb water), which results in unique flux (low energy consumption). Silicon carbide is also very durable, and its hardness is only surpassed by diamonds, making it a highly desirable material for various abrasive fluids in industrial applications. As a result, we believe that such superior physical properties make our products desirable in both liquid filtration products and exhaust emission control products.

●

Complete Systems Fabrication: LiqTech provides full fabrication and integration of our membranes into complete filtration systems made from corrosive-resistant materials and components. We possess in-house engineering capabilities for process design, 3D modeling, and control. Our professional staff of highly dedicated engineers and craftsmen take responsibility for the entire specification, engineering, fabrication, and commissioning process. We believe that supplying our customers with turnkey solutions built upon our silicon carbide membranes is unique in the market. LiqTech is more than a membrane supplier - LiqTech is also a complete water treatment system supplier.

●

Broad Application of LiqTech Membranes: Our membranes can be applied in a variety of applications, including filtration of marine scrubber wastewater, processing of industrial wastewater and produced water, pre-treatment of drinking water and pre-filtration for reverse osmosis, oil emulsion separation, bacteria removal for aquaculture, commercial swimming pool water treatment, food and beverages, and the separation of metals from liquids in industrial processes.

●

Marketing and Manufacturing in Key Markets and Expanding to Other Markets: We have production and sales capacity in Europe, and we are planning to develop capacity in China and the Middle East. We also sell our products through distributors and agents in many other countries such as China, Korea, Spain, UK, and France. Moreover, we have established customer relationships in more than 25 countries.

●

Strong and Experienced Management Team: Our management team has deep experience in the clean technology and filtration industries and drives growth through developing new applications and technologies and cultivating relationships with customers.

Our Strategy

Our strategy is to create stockholder value by leveraging our competitive strengths in silicon carbide filters, membranes, and water treatment solutions through focus on discrete applications in key end markets. Essential features of our strategy include:

●

Retain and acquire new customers within the global marine and oil & gas industries. We currently provide water filtration systems for scrubber technology providers, shipowners, and ship operators as well as tailored filtration systems for oil & gas operators and services companies. We are expanding our range of products to better leverage existing customer relationships and develop new relationships within the oil & gas, marine, and global chemical industries.

●

Enter new geographic markets and expand existing markets. We plan to continue to manufacture and sell our products from our manufacturing centers in Denmark, and in the future, also from our manufacturing center in Taicang, China. We work with distributors, agents, and partners to access other important geographic markets.

●

Strengthen our position in the DPF market. We believe that we have a strong position in the retrofit market for diesel particulate filter (DPF) systems. We intend to advance our efforts to maintain our market position in this area. Furthermore, we intend to leverage our OEM experience by expanding our presence with new products and in new markets relating to diesel particulate filter systems like black carbon reduction in the marine industry.

Table of Contents

●

Develop and improve technologies and enternew end markets. We intend to continue developing our ceramic membranes and enhance the efficiency of our filtration products. We intend to find new uses for our products through continuous research and development and plan to expand into new markets that offer the Company significant opportunities.

●

Focus on the development and sales of standardized water filtration and treatment systems. We will continue our focus on selling systems based on our unique SiC membranes. We will also combine the ceramic membranes with other technologies to offer our customers complete filtration solutions. Moreover, we will continue developing smaller standard systems like groundwater treatment and residential swimming pools.

Our Industry

Overview

We serve primarily two industries: the liquid filtration market and the diesel particle filter (DPF) market. Our goal is to leverage our products and technologies into industrial liquid filtration applications that offer significant growth opportunities and take advantage of favorable market trends.

Liquid Filtration Market

The market for marine water filtration systems is rapidly developing due to new regulations for sulfur and ballast water emissions. Industry experts estimate that 8,000-10,000 ships will be retrofitted with a scrubber water treatment system over the next five years. At the end of 2019, the industry statistics note that nearly 4,000 ships have installed or ordered scrubbers (according to the DNV GL report March 2020), with most installations being open-loop scrubbers. Open-loop scrubbers discharge the wash water directly into the sea. The addressable market for LiqTech is focused on closed-loop scrubbers, where the scrubber wash water is routed through the LiqTech filtration system to remove sulfur and other particulates, and the clean water is then recycled as wash water.

As noted above, the use of open-loop scrubbers to clean the exhaust from marine engines that use high-sulfur residual oil and diesel fuels may lead to the discharge of high concentrations of harmful compounds in the waters from vessels using such scrubbers. Several trials have been conducted on board vessels by scrubber suppliers to define the constituent concentrations in wash water discharge. The research concluded that scrubber wash water also contains suspended solids, heavy metals, hydrocarbons, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Before the scrubber wash water is discharged, it must be treated to remove solids. LiqTech's water treatment systems can be used to remove the solids from the wet scrubber wash water. The treatment process includes a pre-filtration step followed by a LiqTech SiC membrane filtration. Treated water quality is monitored (NTU, PAH, and pH) before discharge. We believe that many of the open-loop scrubbers already installed will eventually be converted to closed-loop (where the LiqTech filtration system is employed), thus resulting in a significantly larger market for LiqTech. The Company is globally engaging with scrubber equipment suppliers, ship owners/operators, and shipyards. Furthermore, we present our water treatment and filtration solutions at marine conferences and trade shows, while also through digital marketing.

In addition to our marine scrubbers, LiqTech offers packaged filtration systems consisting of ceramic SiC and conventional reverse-osmosis (RO) membranes for industrial and municipal customers. We anticipate that global demand will increase for robust and low operating expense products such as ours that are well-suited for mobile and modular systems. RO membranes are increasingly used to produce drinking water (desalination of seawater or brackish water), demineralized water for industrial processes (boiler feed water, microelectronics production), and food processing and pharmaceuticals. Moreover, many laboratories rely on pure water, for which demineralization is an essential step. LiqTech is differentiated by what we believe is our superior SiC membrane technology and by being able to provide a complete water treatment system. According to Global Industry Analyst report, dated April 2021, the global membrane filtration market is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.3%, from $14 billion in 2020 to $20 billion in 2027.

Generally, we also see a growing, global demand for higher-quality re-injection water from unconventional oil and gas productions. In addition, we see tightening water discharge legislation, increasing water usage (more water produced per barrel of oil), and the introduction of Enhanced Oil Recovery ("EOR") techniques. The tightening water discharge legislation is a problem for conventional treatment and filtration technologies; however, our SiC Filters can mitigate these challenges, and we believe the increasing demand represents a favorable market trend for our business.

Table of Contents

Water is essential to life on earth, and clean water shortages are affecting billions of people. Today, 2.2 billion people lack safely managed drinking water, and 3 billion people worldwide lack basic handwashing facilities at home. In addition, more than 700 million people could be displaced due to water scarcity (according to the UN). According to the World Health Organization, approximately 361,000 children die every year due to unsafe water and lack of basic sanitation. Due to the growing need for pure water for drinking and industrial purposes, the market for water filtration is growing rapidly, with more and larger plants being commissioned all over the world.

Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) Market

Our legacy business related to the provision of DPF filters is expected to continue growing across Asia, Europe, and the United States as regulators require diesel engines to comply with new and more stringent environmental rules and regulation. In Europe, for example, German cities continue enforcing increased requirements for diesel engines to include DPF filters, with the same trend also taking place in select Asian countries.

Furthermore, our proprietary DPF technology has paved the way for new market opportunities such as black carbon marine, where our solutions allow both ocean-going and inland marine vessels to comply with current and future regulatory thresholds as defined by both IMO and regional regulators. In Asia, we are currently intensifying our commercial efforts and expanding our regional manufacturing capabilities in China with the aim of capitalizing on its future market potential.

According to an industry publication (Diesel Particulate Filter - Global Market Outlook (2017-2026)), dated January 16 2019, the global market for new DPF filters manufactured by OEMs is expected to increase approximately 13% per year from 2017 to 2026. Diesel emissions consist of several toxic gases and particles: particulate matter (soot), carbon monoxide, and hydrocarbons. Soot has been linked to a variety of human health problems. Reducing diesel emissions will have both health and social benefits, along with reduced costs.

In response to these health impacts, governments have been implementing legislation to regulate emissions from diesel engines. California implemented the Diesel Risk Reduction Plan, and New York City implemented binding directives for the retrofitting of buses, garbage trucks, and construction machines. In the European Union, Directive EC 715/2007 of June 20, 2007, defines particle count limits for certain cars and light utility vehicles. Also, low emission zones have been implemented locally in various places in Europe, creating a patchwork of regulation.

The Asian markets have shown an improved standard of living due to financial growth, which has led to increased sales of vehicles in the region. At the same time, pollution in major cities has reached high particulate matter levels. As a result, the Chinese government has introduced additional regulations, including new emissions standards, faster than previously anticipated. We also believe the high pollution levels will increase the need to retrofit existing vehicles.

Research and Development

We have eighteen (18) full-time employees that are primarily engaged in research and development activities pertaining to the developing of technology and intellectual property rights related to silicon carbide product forms, applications, and manufacturing processes.

Manufacturing

We currently manufacture our DPF and membrane products in Ballerup, Denmark. We assemble our water treatment systems in Hobro, Denmark, and we manufacture plastic products in our facilities located in Aarhus, Denmark. We plan to expand our production capacity in China and the Middle East, primarily through investment in additional facilities and manufacturing equipment for both membranes and filter products.

Raw Materials

The main raw materials we use in our manufacturing processes are silicon carbide, steel, plastic, platinum, and palladium. We purchase these commodities from various sources generally based upon availability and price.

Table of Contents

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

Our products are sold primarily to large industrial customers for gas and liquid filtration. The Company sells through direct sales, systems integrators, distributors, agents, and partners.

The Company initially focused on selling its DPF filters to the automotive industry. In 2014, we acquired Provital Solutions, a Danish filtration system manufacturing company, which enabled us to shift our focus to providing complete, modular liquid filtration systems. The Company's liquid filtration systems business is now rapidly expanding, focusing on the marine industry and other industrial applications in mining, power generation, aquaculture, oil and gas, and other applications within the pool industry, water reclamation, and drinking water.

We plan to actively market our existing products to new customers as we increase our production capacity. As of March 2022, we employed eleven (11) full-time salespeople in addition to distribution agents. We promote our products through direct sales to potential customers and marketing activities such as participation in tradeshows and exhibitions, with a heavy focus on digital marketing.

In certain instances, our products are delivered to the end customer through system integrators. These system integrators use our filtration products in larger filtration systems, which eventually are installed in products used by the end customer. Due to legislative regulation, system integrators are often required by end customers to receive approval for their systems, including the components used in such systems, which requires significant time and expenses. As a result, we believe that certain system integrators that use our products will not replace our filters with competitive products unless there are compelling reasons to do so.

Intellectual Property

We have one issued patent in the United States that we co-own with a third party, two issued patents in Denmark, three issued foreign patents (Germany, China, and South Korea) that we co-own with a third party, and one pending European patent application that we co-own with a third party. The United States patent that we co-own is generally effective for 20 years from the filing date (July 8, 2004) of the earliest U.S. or international application to which it claims priority. The scope and duration of each of our foreign patents vary in keeping with local laws. On July 7, 2014, we obtained a new Danish patent application related to our silicon carbide membrane technology.

We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. Trade secrets, however, can be difficult to protect. We may not be able to maintain our technology or know-how as trade secrets, and competitors may develop or acquire equally valuable or more valuable technology or know-how related to the manufacture of comparable silicon carbide products. We also seek to protect our confidential and proprietary information, in part, by requiring all employees, consultants, and business partners to execute confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements upon the commencement of any employment, consulting arrangement, or engagement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential and proprietary information developed by the employee, consultant, or business partner, or made known to the employee, consultant, or business partner by us, during the course of the relationship with us and thereafter, be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties.

We also believe that having distinctive names is an important factor in marketing our products and therefore use trademarks to brand some of our products. As of March 2022, we had one trademark registration in the United States (LiqTech NA) and four trademark registrations in the European Union (AQUA SOLUTION, CoMem, CDPX, and FUTURE FILTRATION).

Government Regulation

We do not believe that we are subject to any special governmental regulations affecting our products in the countries in which we operate. We are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations. In the United States, these laws and regulations include the Federal Occupation Safety and Health Act and comparable state legislation. We are also subject to similar requirements in other countries in which we have extensive operations, including Denmark. We actively seek to maintain a safe, healthy and environmentally friendly workplace for all of our employees and other stakeholders.

Table of Contents

Environmental Matters

We are subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the handling, storage, disposal, and release of waste and hazardous substances. It is our policy to comply with all applicable environmental requirements at each of our facilities. We are subject to similar requirements in Denmark and other European countries. From time to time, we have identified minor environmental compliance issues at our facilities. To date, compliance with environmental matters has not had a material effect upon the Company's capital expenditures, results of operations, or competitive position.

We believe that, due to the constant focus on the environment, clean air, and clean water standards throughout the world, more stringent regulations in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere around the world are likely as governmental agencies seek to improve standards required for certification of products intended to promote clean air and water. In the event our products fail to meet these changing standards, some or all our products may become obsolete, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and long-term prospects.

Competition

Our products compete with other filters that are made using both ceramic and plastic membranes. Most of our competitors are large industrial companies; however, we believe our patented technology, manufacturing know-how, and trade secrets allow us to produce high-quality products that provide an advantage over many of our competitors, many of which have greater financial, technological, manufacturing and personnel resources. We intend to continue to devote resources to the development of new technologies and the improvement of our products to retain existing customers and acquire new customers.

Employees

At December 31, 2021 we had 120 employees, including 67 in production, 12 in administration, 18 in research and development, 21 in sales and engineering and 2 in executive management.

Certain employees in Denmark are represented by workers' councils that have collective bargaining agreements. With the exception of such Danish employees, no other employees are members of a labor union or are represented by workers' councils that have collective bargaining agreements. We believe that we have good relations with our employees.

Corporate Information

We filed our Articles of Incorporation on July 1, 2004 and are incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada. Our principal executive office is located at Industriparken 22C, 2750 Ballerup, Denmark, and our telephone number is +45 3131 5941. We maintain an Internet website at www.liqtech.com[http://www.liqtech.com]. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file with or furnish them to the SEC and are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy. The information contained in, or accessible from, our website is not a part of this Annual Report.

Additionally, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements, information statements and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov[http://www.sec.gov].

Table of Contents

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS

The COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future.

Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of a widespread outbreak of contagious disease, including the outbreak of respiratory illness caused by the novel coronavirus first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China (COVID-19). The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in authorities worldwide implementing numerous measures to contain or mitigate the outbreak of the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, border controls, limitations on business activity, social distancing requirements, quarantines, and shelter-in-place orders. These measures have caused, and are continuing to cause, business slowdowns or shutdowns in affected areas, both regionally and worldwide. The impact of the pandemic on our business and operations and our ability to execute our strategic plans remains uncertain and will depend on many unpredictable factors outside of our control, including, without limitation, the extent, trajectory and duration of the pandemic; the development, availability and distribution of vaccines and other effective treatments to treat the COVID-19 virus and any new variants thereof; the emergence of new variants that are more contagious, symptomatic or fatal and the time the medical community requires to respond to such variants; the imposition of and compliance with protective public safety measures; the impact of the pandemic on the global economy; and the related impacts on our development pipeline and demand for our products.

Table of Contents

Since 2020 and throughout 2021, management has initiated several precautionary initiatives across our business in accordance with local regulations and guidelines to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. These precautions have impacted the way we carry out our business, including additional sanitation and cleaning procedures in our production and other facilities, temperature and symptom confirmations, remote working when possible, and implementation of social distancing and staggered worktime requirements for our employees who must work on-site. If we are required to continue such measures for an extended period, it could impact the ability of our employees to collaborate efficiently. In addition, the loss or unavailability of our production staff or other key employees and executives, as a result of sickness of employees or their families or the responsibility of employees to manage family obligations while working from home, could continue to negatively impact our business and operations including our ability to operate or execute our business strategy efficiently. Continued employee telecommuting activity also increases the risk of a security breach of our information technology systems. The changed environment under which we are operating could have an impact on our internal controls over financial reporting.

Moreover, the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic could result in interruptions or delays in the operations of regulatory authorities, which may impact review or approval timelines; delays in necessary interactions with other agencies and contractors due to limitations in employee resources or forced furlough of government employees; termination of, or difficulties in procuring or maintaining, arrangements with third parties upon whom we depend such as manufacturers, including contract manufacturing organizations, suppliers and other strategic partners; and disruptions or restrictions on our ability to pursue partnerships and other business transactions.

As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the geopolitical unrest and general restrictions on the global supply chain amid increased global trade combined with challenges from the Evergreen blockage of the Suez Canal in 2021, our business continues to be exposed to significant disruptions and delays in the global supply chain.

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, there has been an overall decline in new orders, particularly in the shipping industry, due to reduced investment caused by demand disruption and the volatility of oil prices. The effects of a prolonged pandemic could result in a prolonged negative impact on investment in the shipping industry and in other industries. In addition, if COVID-19 impacts the financial position of our customers or any of our collaboration partners, we may have difficulty collecting receivables or milestone payments, and our business and results of operations could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts or defaults on contractual payment obligations by our collaboration partners. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, we may need to raise additional funds. The duration and severity of any further economic or market impact of the pandemic remains uncertain as exemplified by the rapid increase in the COVID-19 pandemic in late 2021 due to Omicron variant, thus there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to access capital markets, in the future, on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.

Historically, we have been dependent on a few major customers for a significant portion of our Company's revenue. Our revenue could decline if we are unable to maintain or develop relationships with additional customers and our results of operations could be adversely affected if any one of these customers is unable to meet their financial obligations to us.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, our four largest customers accounted for approximately 12%, 10%, 9%, and 6% of our net sales (approximately 37% in total). For the year ended December 31, 2020, our four largest customers accounted for approximately 27%, 10%, 8% and 8% of our net sales (approximately 53% in total). If we are unable to diversify our customer base, our future results will be heavily dependent on these customers. Our dependence on a limited number of customers means that the loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by a major customer would materially reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future; however, these customers or our other customers may not use our products at current levels in the future, if at all. We have no firm, long-term volume commitments from any of our major customers, and we generally enter into individual purchase orders with our customers, in certain cases under master agreements that govern the terms and conditions of the relationship. We have experienced delays or cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period to period and expect that we will continue to experience such delays, cancellations, and fluctuations in the future. Customer purchase orders may be delayed or cancelled, and order volume levels can be changed with limited or no penalties. We may not be able to replace cancelled, delayed, or reduced purchase orders with new orders. If any one of these customers reduces its demand for our products, it will likely have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Table of Contents

Furthermore, a significant portion of our accounts receivable is concentrated with a few major customers, who may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us. The failure of any such customers to pay amounts owed to us in a timely fashion or at all could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company is also exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company's outstanding receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company's exposure to credit and collectability risk on its receivables may also be higher in certain international markets, and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses.

We will need to raise additional funds to develop our business, which may adversely affect our future growth.

We expect to finance our anticipated future growth and possibly future strategic acquisitions through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, or reduce the scope of, our plans to grow our revenues, to consummate one or more strategic acquisitions,or to scale back our business plans. In addition, we could be forced to reduce or forgo attractive business opportunities. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. In addition, debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. We may seek to access the public or private capital markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Our access to the financial markets and the pricing and terms we receive in the financial markets could be adversely impacted by various factors, including changes in financial markets and interest rates.

Changes in China's political, social, regulatory, or economic environments may affect our financial performance.

Our financial performance related to the new manufacturing facility in Taicang and the commercial potential in China may be affected by changes in the Chinese political, social, regulatory or economic environments. The role of the Chinese central and local governments in the Chinese economy is significant. Chinese policies toward hazardous materials, environmental controls, air pollution, economic liberalization, laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates, taxation structure and other matters could change, resulting in greater restrictions on our ability to do business and operate our manufacturing facility in China. We have observed a growing fluidity and tightening of regulations concerning hazardous materials, other environmental controls and air pollution. The Chinese government could revoke, terminate or suspend our operating licenses for reasons related to environmental control over the use of hazardous materials, air pollution, labor complaints, national security and similar reasons without compensation to us. Further, the central government encourages employees to report possible safety or environmental violations to regulatory agencies, even when there may not be actual violations. Any failure on our part to comply with governmental regulations could result in the loss of our ability to manufacture our products, generate revenue, and cover fixed costs in China.

The Chinese central government is increasingly aware of air pollution and other forms of environmental pollution as evidenced in the new five-year plan.

The Chinese central government is demonstrating strong leadership to improve air quality and reduce environmental pollution as evidenced in the new 14th five-year plan related to 2021-2025. These efforts may impact manufacturing companies through mandatory shutdowns, increased inspections, and regulatory reforms to ensure the Chinese manufacturing industry complies with the overall targets for climate, pollution, and R&D. Furthermore, the timing and impact on demand for environmental solutions required to help achieve the overall climate targets remain uncertain as local, regional and national legislation and government actions may be subject to delays. Consequently, the financial impact from the Taicang manufacturing facility could be negatively impacted by both manufacturing delays or reduced demand given the risk and timing uncertainties related to the new five-year plan including relevant emission legislation, which would frustrate our ability to generate revenue and cover fixed costs.

If China places restrictions on freight and transportation routes and on ports of entry and departure this could result in shipping delays or increased costs for shipping.

If the Chinese government were to place additional restrictions on the transportation of materials and products in and out of China, then our ability to transport our raw materials or products could be limited and result in manufacturing delays or bottlenecks at shipping ports, affecting our ability to deliver products to our customers. During periods of such restrictions, we may increase our stock of critical materials for use during the period that these restrictions are likely to last, which will increase our use of cash and increase our inventory level. Any of these restrictions could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, and our financial condition.

Table of Contents

Our international operations are exposed to potential adverse tax consequence in China.

Our international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences. Taxes on income in our future China-based operations are dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. Due to inconsistencies among taxing authorities in application of the arm's length standard, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, materially increase our consolidated income tax expense. We will be subject to tax audits in China, and an audit could result in the assessment of additional income tax against us. This could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent periods.

Adverse conditions or events affecting the marine transportation industries may have a material adverse effect on our business.

Global health crises, such as a prolonged outbreak of COVID-19, can significantly impact us and our customers and suppliers. For example, the global shipping industries have been negatively impacted by the coronavirus outbreak due to increased travel restrictions and may be further adversely affected by an extended shutdown of various businesses in the impacted regions. In light of this operating environment, shipping companies that carry goods may begin to significantly reduce the number of seaborne vessels or reroute ships as measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus negatively impact the demand for seaborne transport of goods. This, in turn, can adversely affect the demand for our marine scrubbers to these shipping customers if many vessels sit idle or are taken out of service during the outbreak.

Furthermore, the volatility in oil prices caused by demand destruction from economic shutdowns and geopolitical tensions such as those between Russia and Ukraine have created similar volatility in the price of fuel oil used by our marine customers, including low-sulfur fuel oil. A reduction in the price of low-sulfur fuel oil could negatively affect the demand for our marine scrubber systems, which could impact our sales of marine scrubbers and our operating results.

We may be adversely affected by global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments.

We sell our products around the world, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of sales from outside the U.S. The uncertain macroeconomic environment caused by the prolonged outbreak of COVID-19 may adversely affect our results and could have a negative impact on demand for our products. Customers or suppliers may experience cash flow problems and as a result, may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, and suppliers may significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to purchase our products and/or to pay us for our products may adversely affect our sales, earnings and cash flow. Sales and earnings could also be affected by our ability to manage the risks and uncertainties associated with the application of local legal requirements or the enforceability of laws and contractual obligations, trade protection measures, changes in tax laws, regional political instability, war, terrorist activities, severe or prolonged adverse weather conditions and natural disasters as well as health epidemics or pandemics.

Our success will depend, to a large degree, on the expertise and experience of the members of our management team, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our success is, to a large degree, dependent upon the expertise and experience of the management team and its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel who are technically proficient. The loss of the services of one or more of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to attract and retain such personnel.

We will need to add qualified additional personnel as we expand our business, and we may not be able to employ such persons, which could affect our ability to expand and have a material adverse effect on our business.

In order to expand our product offerings and customer base, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel. We may not be able to identify such persons, and even if we identify them in periods with low unemployment and increased wage inflation, we may not have the funds or ability to employ them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Table of Contents

Future growth of our business depends in part, on the availability of funding for emissions control programs as well as the enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and further tightening of emission standards worldwide, all of which are beyond our control and the lack of which could negatively affect our future growth.

Future growth of our business depends in part on the availability of funding for emissions control programs, which can be affected by economic as well as political reasons that are beyond our control. If such funding is not available, or delayed, it can negatively affect our future growth prospects. In addition to funding, we also expect that our future business growth will be driven, in part, by the enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and tightening of emissions standards worldwide, where regulations and standards are frequently contested in litigation. For example, our ability to expand our business in the marine industry is dependent on the effective implementation of IMO 2020, which requires the burning of low-sulfur oil for marine vessels or the inclusion of marine scrubber technology. During the IMO meeting in November 2021, a number of proposals for further mid-term GHG reduction measures were discussed, including market-based measures, to address GHG emissions from shipping, as well as a proposal to establish an International Maritime Research and Development Board; however no immediate regulation was imposed. If existing regulations and emissions standards do not continue to become stricter, are loosened or are not enforced by governmental authorities due to commercial and business pressure, economic conditions or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects.

If we are unable to manage our expected growth, our business may be materially and adversely affected.

We expect to expand our operations by increasing our internal resources, making acquisitions and entering into new markets. The growth of our business could place significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage our future growth, we could be required to improve existing or implement new operational or financial systems, procedures and controls as well as to expand, train and manage a growing employee base. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially and adversely affect our business. Even if we are successful in integrating future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expected from such acquisitions, which may result in the investment of our capital resources without realizing the expected returns on such investment. We also may not recognize the anticipated benefits of completed dispositions or other divestitures we may pursue in the future.

We face constant changes in governmental standards by which our products are evaluated, and if we cannot meet any such changes, some of our products could become obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We believe that due to the intensifying focus on the environment and clean air and water standards throughout the world, new requirements to adhere to more stringent regulations are possible in the future as governmental agencies seek to promote clean air and water among new product certifications. In the event that our products fail to meet these evolving standards, some or all of our products may become obsolete, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects.

Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively affect our business and results of operations.

Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon developing, maintaining and/or protecting intellectual property rights relevant to our re-crystallized silicon carbide product forms, applications, and manufacturing processes. We rely principally on a combination of patent protection, trade secrets, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and trusted business relationships to establish, maintain and protect the intellectual property rights relevant to our business. These measures, however, may not be adequate in every given case to permit us to gain or retain any competitive advantage, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In particular, because silicon carbide is a well-known material (developed over 100 years ago), and there has been extensive research, development and publication related to this material and its wide range of applications, obtaining intellectual property rights to key elements of silicon carbide technology can be challenging. Accordingly, at least some of the technology employed in our manufacture of re-crystallized silicon carbide products is not protected by patents.

Table of Contents

Where we consider it appropriate, we seek patent protection in the United States and other countries on technologies used in, or relating to, our re-crystallized silicon carbide product forms, applications, and manufacturing processes. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity, and enforceability. Thus, any patent or patent application which may issue into a patent held by us could be challenged, invalidated or held unenforceable in litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and/or other patent tribunals or circumvented by others. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of patent claims has emerged to date in the United States, and the landscape could become more uncertain in view of future rule changes by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the introduction of patent reform legislation and decisions in patent law cases by United States federal courts. The patent landscape outside the United States is even less predictable. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, if at all, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products or technologies, especially given the long history of silicon carbide development.

Our patent strategy involves complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary technology may depend in part upon our success in obtaining patent rights and enforcing those rights once granted or licensed. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing similar or related products, or shorten the term of patent protection that we may have for our products, processes and enabling technologies. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies, duplicate technology developed by us or otherwise possess intellectual property rights that could limit our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business.

We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. Trade secrets, however, can be difficult to protect. We may not be able to maintain our technology or know-how as trade secrets, and competitors may develop or acquire equally valuable or more valuable technology or know-how related to the manufacture of comparable silicon carbide products. We also seek to protect our confidential and proprietary information, in part, by requiring all employees, consultants and business partners to execute confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements upon the commencement of any employment, consulting arrangement or engagement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential and proprietary information developed by the employee, consultant, or business partner, or made known to the employee, consultant or business partner by us, during the course of the relationship with us, be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements may be breached and may not provide adequate remedies in the event of breach. To the extent that our employees, consultants, or business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for and/or with us, disputes could arise as to the rights in related or resulting technologies, know-how or inventions. Moreover, while we also require customers and vendors to execute agreements containing confidentiality and/or nondisclosure provisions, we may not have obtained such agreements from all of our customers and vendors. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors, customers, or vendors. Such customers or vendors may also be subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential.

Moreover, others may independently develop and obtain patents covering technologies that are similar or superior to the product forms, applications, or manufacturing processes that we employ. If that happens, we may need to obtain licenses for these technologies and may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could limit our ability to manufacture our future products and operate our business. In addition, third parties could utilize our intellectual property rights in territories where we do not have intellectual property protection. Such third parties may then try to import products made using our intellectual property rights into the United States or other countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our contracts with third parties could negatively affect our intellectual property rights.

To further strengthen our product development efforts, we continue to work closely with customers, the Danish government and other third parties to research and develop advancements in silicon carbide product forms, applications, manufacturing processes and related products and technologies. We have entered into agreements with private third parties and have been awarded a research and development contract with the Danish government to independently and jointly research, design and develop new devices and systems that incorporate our silicon carbide technologies. We expect to enter into similar private agreements and be awarded similar government contracts in the future. In some instances, the research and development activities that we conduct under these contracts may produce intellectual property to which we may not have ownership or exclusive rights and will be unable to protect or monetize. Furthermore, there could be disputes between us and a private third party as to the ownership rights to any inventions that we develop in collaboration with such third party. Any such dispute may cause us to incur substantial costs and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business or harm our reputation.

Table of Contents

We could become subject to intellectual property litigation that could be costly, limit or cancel our intellectual property rights, divert time and efforts away from business operations, require us to pay damages and/or otherwise have an adverse material impact on our business.

The success of our business is highly dependent on protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and/or enabling technologies. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult and expensive, as is enforcing these rights against unauthorized use by others. Identifying unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult because we may be unable to monitor the processes and/or materials being employed by other parties. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where enforcement of intellectual property rights may be more difficult than in the United States.

Our continued commercial success will also depend in part upon not infringing the patents or violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are aware of patents and patent applications generally relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. Nevertheless, we cannot determine with certainty whether such patents or patent applications of other parties may materially affect our ability to conduct our business. There may be existing patents of which we are unaware that we may inadvertently infringe, resulting in claims against us or our customers. In the event that the manufacture, use and/or sale of our products or processes is challenged, or if our product forms or processes conflict with the patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us or our customers in the United States, Europe or other countries, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin the manufacturing and/or marketing of our products. Additionally, it is not possible to predict with certainty what patent claims may issue from any relevant third-party pending patent applications. Third parties may be able to obtain patents with claims relating to our product forms, applications and/or manufacturing processes which they could attempt to assert against us or our customers.

In either case, litigation may be necessary to enforce, protect or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others. Any litigation could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs, divert resources and the efforts of our personnel away from daily operations, harm our reputation and/or result in the impairment of our intellectual property rights. In some cases, litigation may be threatened or brought by a patent holding company or other adverse patent owner who has no relevant product revenues and against which our patents may provide little or no deterrence. If we are found to infringe any patents, we could be required to (1) pay substantial monetary damages, including lost profits, reasonable royalties and/or treble damages if an infringement is found to be willful and/or (2) totally discontinue or substantially modify any products or processes that are found to be in violation of another party's intellectual property rights. If our competitors are able to use our technology without payment to us, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed.

We face competition and technological advances by competitors, which could adversely affect the sales of our products.

The growth of our Company depends in part on maintaining and growing the sales of our current products in existing and new markets, but also in developing new products and technologies. There is significant competition among companies that provide solutions for pollutant emissions from diesel engines and water purification solutions. Several companies market products that compete directly with our products. Other companies offer products that potential customers may consider to be acceptable or superior alternatives to our products and services, including products that are verified by the Environmental Protection Agency or other environmental authorities. We face direct competition from companies with greater financial, technological, manufacturing and personnel resources. Newly developed products could be more effective and cost-efficient than our current or future products.

Failure to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials or failure to obtain raw materials at affordable prices could negatively affect our ability to supply products to our customers and negatively affect our profit margins.

We use silicon carbide, steel, plastic, platinum and palladium in the manufacture of our products. As other industries develop products utilizing silicon carbide, we may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of silicon carbide required for the manufacture of our existing and future products that would prevent us from supplying products to our customers and materially affect our business. Furthermore, any increased demand for, the raising of tariff rates on, or an increase of non-tariff trade barriers that apply to silicon carbide, steel, plastic, platinum, or palladium could increase the price we must pay to obtain it and could adversely affect our profitability, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results.

Table of Contents

We may rely on subcontractors to meet current demand for our products, and we may need to obtain additional manufacturing capacity in order to increase production of our existing products or to produce our proposed new products, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

We may not have sufficient internal manufacturing capacity to meet the current demand for our products, and we may need to rely on subcontractors to enable us to meet this demand. Since we may rely on our subcontractors for a significant amount of our production capacity, the loss of the services of our subcontractors would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our plans for the growth of our business rely upon increasing sales of our existing products and systems and developing and marketing new products. We may not have adequate internal manufacturing facilities to substantially increase production of our products, and obtaining additional manufacturing capacity in-house could require substantial capital expenditures. We may not have the capital resources to obtain or construct new facilities to expand manufacturing capacity and meet increasing demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Conversely, any significant decrease in demand for our products could create idle plant capacity and an inability to cover fixed costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.

Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact financial performance.

Our reporting currency is the United States Dollar ($). Because of our activities in Denmark, the European Continent, China, and other countries, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Most income and expense related transactions are denominated in other currencies than the reporting currency, and furthermore, a certain portion of the excess cash balances may be held in other currencies than the reporting currency or in bank accounts outside the United States, causing risks of currency fluctuations when translating balances to the official currency rate at the end of the reporting period. We may manage the risk to such exposure by active cash flow management, and in some cases, by entering into foreign currency futures and option contracts; however, we can make no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to offset a material adverse effect on our operations in the future. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020 we have not entered into any derivate contracts to hedge our currency exposure.

Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures of our products could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Customers rely upon our products to meet emissions control standards imposed upon them by the government. Failure of our products to meet such standards could expose us to claims from customers. Our products are also integrated into goods used by consumers, and therefore a malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability claims. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market's perception of our products, which would materially impact our financial condition and operating results.

We could become liable for damages resulting from our manufacturing activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or cause us to cease operations.

The nature of our manufacturing operations exposes us to potential claims and liability for environmental damage, personal injury, loss of life and damage to, or destruction of, property. Our manufacturing operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations that govern environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past, and it is reasonable to expect additional and more stringent changes in the future. Our manufacturing operations may not comply with future laws and regulations, and we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures to bring our operations within compliance with such evolving regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, manufacturing guidelines, and workplace safety requirements, governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits, and private parties may seek damages from us. Under such circumstances, we could be required to curtail or cease operations, conduct site remediation or other corrective action, or pay substantial damage claims for which we may not have sufficient or any insurance coverage for claims.

Table of Contents

A significant portion of our assets and some of our officers and directors may be located outside of the United States; therefore, it may be difficult for an investor to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or such officers and directors.

A significant portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, the majority of our officers and potentially some of our directors are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons' assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to affect service of process or enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or such officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of other jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in other jurisdictions against us or such officers and directors predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.

We have a plan to establish a joint venture in the Middle East and may engage in additional collaborations, joint ventures, or strategic alliances in the future, and we may not realize the benefits of such arrangements.

LiqTech, has signed a joint venture agreement to supply and operate water treatment systems for oil and gas producers in the Middle East with a local company. We expect to deliver technological know-how, design of water treatment systems and components to support potential projects in the Middle East. The joint venture agreement is structured as a jointly owned limited liability company incorporated under the laws in the local country, with LiqTech Water Projects holding 49% of the shares. All profits of the company are to be allocated proportionally to the ownership share, and none of the parties are liable for the company's liabilities towards third parties. As of year-end 2021, the joint venture was not legally established.

Additionally, from time to time, we may enter into other joint ventures with other entities. Establishment of a joint venture involves significant risks and uncertainties, including (i) our inability to cooperate with our local partner, (ii) our local partner having economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and (iii) the potential that our local partner may be unable to meet its economic or other obligations, which may require us to fulfill those obligations alone. In any joint venture we engage in, we will rely on our local partner for the implementation of much of any such joint venture operation, and the success of any such operation is thus not entirely within our control. Any failure or perceived failure of a joint venture may have a material impact on our operations and financial condition.

If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting.

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. If our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be ineffective, resulting in material weaknesses and/or significant deficiencies; investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected, which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition.

In Item 9A, we disclose that, with respect to the standards of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the internal controls standard to which we are subjected, we reported material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. For additional information on this item, please see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.

Although we believe our historical efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting (and we concluded that our financial statements were reliable, notwithstanding the material weakness we reported), we cannot be certain that our revised internal control practices will ensure that we will have or maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in future periods. Any failure to have or maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations.

Table of Contents

We may have risks associated with security of our information technology systems.

We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information technology systems and data. Despite significant efforts to create security barriers to such systems, it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. There is a risk of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse or theft of information or assets, or damage to assets by people who may gain unauthorized access to our facilities, systems, or information. Such cybersecurity breaches, misuse, or other disruptions could lead to the disclosure of confidential information; improper usage and distribution of our intellectual property; theft, manipulation, and destruction of private and proprietary data; and production downtimes. Although we actively employ measures to prevent unauthorized access to our information systems, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. These events could adversely affect our financial results, and any legal action in connection with any such cybersecurity breach could be costly and time-consuming, may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. In addition, we must frequently expand our internal information system to meet increasing demand in storage, computing and communication, which may result in increased costs. Our internal information system is expensive to expand and must be highly secure due to the sensitive nature of our customers' information that we transmit. Building and managing the support necessary for our growth places significant demands on our management and resources. These demands may divert such resources from the continued growth of our business and implementation of our business strategy.

RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK

Future equity financings or convertible debt would dilute your ownership and could adversely affect your common stock ownership rights in comparison with those of other security holders.

Our board of directors has the power to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock without stockholder approval. In general, stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any common stock issued by us in the future; therefore, stockholders may experience additional dilution of their equity investment if we issue additional shares of common stock in the future, including shares issuable under equity incentive plans, or if we issue securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock.

If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage of ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced, and such newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we issue additional common stock or securities convertible into common stock, such issuance will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of each other stockholder. In addition, such stock issuances might result in a reduction of the market value of our common stock, which could make our stock unattractive to existing stockholders.

Table of Contents

Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change in control, or an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to you, thereby adversely affecting existing stockholders.

Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of making it more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our Company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.

There is limited trading volume of our common stock, which could make it difficult for you to liquidate an investment in our common stock in a timely manner.

Since April 16, 2019, our common stock has been traded on Nasdaq Capital Market under the ticker LIQT. Because there is limited volume in our common stock, investors may not be able to liquidate their investments when they desire to do so.

In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC and Nasdaq Capital Market rules and regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity.

If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade us or our sector, the price of our common stock could decline.

The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades us, the industry in which we operate, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our common stock may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage altogether, we could lose visibility, which could also lead to a decline in the price of our common stock.

The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.

The market price of our common stock has been volatile and fluctuates widely in response to various factors that are beyond our control. The price of our common stock is not necessarily indicative of our operating performance or long-term business prospects. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors such as the following could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially:

●

the underlying price of the commodities that affect our key markets of industrial water filtration, marine, and oil & gas;

●

announcements of capital budget changes by major customers;

●

the introduction of new products by our competitors;

●

announcements of technology advances by us or our competitors;

●

current events affecting the political and economic environment in the United States, Europe or Asia;

●

conditions or industry trends, including demand for our products, services and technological advances;

●

changes to financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock;

●

additions or departures of our key personnel;

●

government regulation of our industry;

●

seasonal, economic, or financial conditions;

●

our quarterly operating and financial results;

●

litigation or public concern about the safety of our products; or

●

the effect of COVID-19.

Table of Contents

The realization of any of these risks and other factors beyond our control could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In particular, the market price of our common stock may be influenced by changes in governmental regulations regarding diesel particle emissions and marine wastewater because demand for our products and services is closely related to those regulations. The stock market in general experiences, from time to time, extreme price and volume fluctuations. Periodic and/or continuous market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility may be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low.

Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that future sales may occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline.

If any significant number of our outstanding shares are sold, such sales could have a depressive effect on the market price of our stock. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that the sale of shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the market price of the shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress prevailing market prices for the shares. Such sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.

The Company is considered a "smaller reporting company"and is exempt from certain disclosure requirements, which could make our common stock less attractive to potential investors.

As a "smaller reporting company" (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) we are not required and may not include a Compensation Discussion and Analysis section in our proxy statements; we provide only three years of business information; provide fewer years of selected financial data; and have other "scaled" disclosure requirements that are less comprehensive than issuers that are not "smaller reporting companies," which could make our stock less attractive to potential investors and could make it more difficult for shareholders to sell their shares.

We have no current plan to pay dividends on our common stock, and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment.

We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock; therefore, investors will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares. We cannot assure investors of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares, nor can we assure that investors will not lose the entire amount of their investment.

Table of Contents

PUBLIC COMPANY RISK FACTORS

We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management may be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives that ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

As a public company, we expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls as well as mandating certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time and financial resources to these compliance initiatives.

As a "smaller reporting company" we are still able to take advantage of certain exceptions available to both emerging growth companies and smaller reporting companies, including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and the exemption from providing a "Compensation Discussion and Analysis" section in our proxy statements; providing only three years of business information; and other "scaled" disclosure requirements that are less comprehensive than issuers that are not smaller reporting companies.

If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately or maintain internal control systems adequate to meet the demands that are placed upon us as a public company, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and our business and stock price may suffer. The costs of being a public company, as well as diversion of management's time and attention, may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

A wide variety of provincial, state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. Further, our legal and regulatory obligations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to unexpected changes, including the potential for regulatory or other governmental entities to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issues rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations, or to increase penalties significantly. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services.

For example, the General Data Protection Regulation, which became effective in May 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance, than the European Union laws that previously applied. Additionally, California recently enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, which became effective January 1, 2020. We may also be subject to additional obligations relating to personal data by contract that industry standards apply to our practices. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines, damage to our reputation, and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business. Further, evolving and changing definitions of personal data and personal information, including the classification of IP addresses, machine identification information, location data, and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting business relationships and partnerships that may involve the sharing or uses of data, and may require significant costs, resources, and efforts in order to comply.

Table of Contents

Changes in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") could adversely affect our financial results and may require significant changes to our internal accounting systems and processes.

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. The FASB periodically issues new accounting standards on a variety of topics. For information regarding new accounting standards, please refer to Note 1, "Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and other such standards generally result in different accounting principles, which may significantly impact our reported results or could result in variability of our financial results.

In preparing our financial statements we make certain assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results.

We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets and other intangible assets; the realizability of deferred tax assets; the recognition of revenue and the fair value of stock awards; and others. We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee-related liabilities, including commissions and variable compensation, and in determining the allowance or provisions for uncertain tax positions, doubtful accounts, excess or obsolete inventory, and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact our financial results.

Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities.

In recent years, shareholder activists have become involved in numerous public companies. Shareholder activists frequently propose to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction and operations of the Company. Such proposals may disrupt our business and divert the attention of our Board of Directors, management and employees, and any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction resulting from such a situation could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan, be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, all of which could adversely affect our business. A proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting could also require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses. In addition, actions of activist shareholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.

Our business could be negatively impacted the by surge in geopolitical unrest and associated market turmoil negatively impacting both financial markets.

Increased geopolitical tensions and potential prolonged inflationary pressure combined with increased commodity prices and general volatility across financial markets could negatively impact demand for our products and services due to temporary or even permanent reductions in investments across the global transportation, shipping, and energy industries. The relevance and economic benefits of our systems may also be undermined by a delayed introduction or compliance with both environmental and regulatory efforts. Furthermore, potential sanctions imposed on select countries, could adversely affect our supply chain and overall demand, thus reducing our ability to timely source raw materials and deliver finished goods and services to our clients.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Table of Contents

Item 2.

Properties

Our corporate headquarters are located at Industriparken 22C, 2750 Ballerup, Denmark. We lease approximately 67,000 square feet at our Ballerup location, of which approximately 10,000 square feet is used for office space and 57,000 square feet is used for production. The lease will expire on August 31, 2024. We also conduct operations at Benshøj Industrivej 24, 9500 Hobro, Denmark, where we lease approximately 45,750 square feet, of which approximately 10,750 square feet is used for office space and 35,000 square feet is used for production. The lease will expire on November 30, 2034. Other operations are located at Sindalsvej 38-40, Risskov, Denmark, where we lease approximately 19,500 square feet, of which approximately 2,200 square feet is used for office space and 17,300 square feet is used for production. The leases will expire on August 31, 2024.

On September 23, 2021, LiqTech entered into a Lease Agreement through its wholly-owned subsidiary LiqTech Emission Control A/S, effective September 1, 2021, for a minimum term of eight years, and thereafter renewable upon six months' notice, with Plainvim (Taicang) Industrial Park Co., Ltd., a company organized under the laws of the Republic of China, pursuant to which LiqTech agreed to lease 91,752 square feet of property located at No. 525, Lingang South Road, Yuewang, Shaxi Town, Taicang City, Jiangsu Province, China. The China property will be used primarily for the production, warehousing and storage of filtration supplies, products, and equipment and for ancillary office purposes.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

From time to time, we may be involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. Please reference Note 7 - Agreements, commitments and contingencies for details on such litigation.

Item 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures.

Not applicable.

Item 5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our common stock is currently quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol LIQT.

As of December 31, 2021, there were approximately 32 stockholders of record of our common stock as reported by our transfer agent, one of which is Cede & Co., a nominee for Depository Trust Company ("DTC"). All of the shares of common stock held by brokerage firms, banks, and other financial institutions as nominees for beneficial owners are deposited into participant accounts at DTC and are therefore considered to be held of record by Cede & Co. as one stockholder.

We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and have no intention of paying any dividends on the shares of our common stock. Subject to Nevada law, our Board of Directors will determine the payment of future dividends on our common stock, if any, and the amount of any dividends subject to:

●

any contractual restrictions limiting our ability to pay dividends that may be applicable at such time;

●

our earnings and cash flow;

●

our capital requirements;

●

our financial condition; and

●

other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.

Since the beginning of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, we have not sold any equity securities that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 that were not previously reported in a quarterly report on Form 10-Q or in a current report on Form 8-K.

Since the beginning of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, we have not repurchased any of our equity securities.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

Not applicable.

Table of Contents

Item 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

We are a Nevada corporation, formerly named Blue Moose Media, Inc. In October 2011, we changed our name to LiqTech International, Inc. For more than two decades we have developed and provided state-of-the-art technologies for gas and liquid purification using silicon carbide ceramic filters, particularly highly specialized filters for the control of soot exhaust particles from diesel engines and for liquid filtration. Using nanotechnology, LiqTech develops products using proprietary silicon carbide technology. LiqTech's products are based on unique silicon carbide membranes that facilitate new applications and improve existing technologies. In particular, the Company has developed a new standard of water filtration technology to meet the ever-increasing demand for higher water quality. By incorporating LiqTech's SiC liquid membrane technology with its long-standing systems design experience and capabilities, the Company offers solutions to the most difficult water pollution problems.

2021 Developments

On March 24, 2021 the Company entered into a securities purchase agreement (the "Securities Purchase Agreement") with an institutional investor pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell a $15.0 million principal amount Senior Convertible Note due 2023 (the "Note") and an aggregate of 80,000 shares of commons stock (together with the Note, the "Securities"). The Securities Purchase Agreement provides that the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities shall be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and potential acquisitions.

On August 20, 2021, the Company entered into a new agreement regarding the provision of LiqTech's water filtration system for an offshore deep-sea drilling application within the European oil & gas market.

On September 23, 2021, the Company entered into a Lease Agreement through its wholly-owned subsidiary LiqTech Emission Control, for a minimum term of eight years, with Plainvim (Taicang) in China, pursuant to which LiqTech agreed to lease a 91,752 square feet property used primarily for the production, warehousing and storage of filtration supplies, products, and equipment and for ancillary office purposes.

On October 6, 2021, the Company announced its first oil and gas order in the Middle East with one of the major oil field services companies in the world. Under the terms of the contract, the customer will be deploying LiqTech's water filtration systems.

On November 23, 2021, the Company announced the appointment of Simon S. Stadil as Chief Financial Officer of LiqTech International.

Table of Contents

Results of Operations

Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020

The following table sets forth our revenues, expenses and net income for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 in U.S. dollars, except for percentages.

                                           For the Year Ending December 31,
                                           Period to PeriodChange
                                           2021          As a %of Sales 2020         As a %of Sales $             Percent %
Revenue                                     18,273,442    100.0          %            22,526,201     100.0        %           (4,252,759  )            (18.9       )%
Cost of Goods Sold                          16,697,296    91.4           20,379,519   90.5           (3,682,223   )           (18.1       )
                                           

Gross Profit                                1,576,146     8.6            2,146,882    9.5            (570,536     )           (26.6       )
                                           

Operating Expenses
Selling expenses                            4,564,188     25.0           2,918,418    13.0           1,645,770     56.4 
General and administrative expenses         5,836,629     31.9           6,205,040    27.5           (368,411     )           (5.9        )
Research and development expenses           1,862,653     10.2           1,278,331    5.7            584,322       45.7 
Total Operating Expenses                    12,263,470    67.1           10,401,789   46.2           1,861,681     17.9 
                                           

Loss from Operations                        (10,687,324  )               (58.5       )               (8,255,107   )           (36.6       )            (2,432,217  )        29.5 
                                           

Other Income (Expense)
Gain on modification of earn-out liability  0.0           306,073        1.4          (306,077      )              (100.0    )
Interest and other income                   371,467       2.0            139,513      0.6            231,954       166.3 
Interest expense                            (708,176     )               (3.9        )               (120,903     )           (0.5        )            (587,273    )        485.7 
Amortization discount on Convertible Note   (835,331     )               (4.6        )               (835,331     )
Fair value adjustment of warrants           0.0           (901,250      )             (4.0          )              (901,250  )             (100.0     )
Gain (Loss) on currency transactions        668,225       3.7            (1,469,607  )               (6.5         )           2,137,862    (145.5     )
Gain (Loss) on sale of fixed assets         1,113         0.0            27,772       0.1            26,659        96.0 
Total Other Income (Expense)                (502,672     )               (2.8        )               (2,018,398   )           9.0          1,515,726   (75.1       )
                                           

Loss Before Income Taxes                    (11,189,996  )               (61.2       )               (10,273,505  )           (45.6       )            (916,491    )        8.9 
Income Taxes Provision (Benefit)            (63,036      )               (0.3        )               (465,145     )           (2.1        )            402,109      (86.4  )
                                           

Net Income/(Loss)                           (11,126,960  )               (60.9       )               (9,808,360   )           (43.5       )            (1,318,600  )        13.4 
Revenues

Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $18,273,442 compared to $22,526,201 for the same period in 2020, representing a decrease of $4,252,759, or 19%. The change in revenue mainly consists of a decrease in sales of liquid filters and systems partly offset by an increase in sales of DPFs and plastics.

●

For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our sales of liquid filters, services and systems were $7,196,465 and $14,147,842, respectively, and accounted for 39% and 63% of our total sales, respectively

●

For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our sales of DPFs were $7,183,868 and $5,131,891, respectively, and accounted for 39% and 22% of our total sales, respectively.

●

For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our plastics revenues were $3,615,681 and $2,647,366, respectively and accounted for 20% and 12% of our total sales, respectively.

Table of Contents

The decrease in sales of liquid filters and water treatment systems is a result of the negative impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, but also increased supply chain restrictions and general market volatility, which has resulted in significant restrictions and business limitations across the globe and caused a substantial decline in the demand and delivery of water treatment systems for the marine scrubber industry. The demand for our DPFs reflects a continued interest in environmental solutions to reduce global CO2 emissions amid increased political and regulatory efforts.

Furthermore, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, LiqTech received revenue from government grant projects of $277,428 and $599,102, respectively.

Gross Profit

Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $1,576,146 compared to $2,146,682 for the same period in 2020, representing a decrease of $570,536, or approximately 27%. The decrease in gross profit is due to the decline in sales of liquid filters and water treatment systems, for which sales command a higher gross margin. Gross profit was further impacted by increased costs related to decisions made prior to the impact of COVID-19, where the Company had invested in the expansion and improvement of production facilities along with additional employees. Furthermore, increased cost related to the China project ramp-up and changes in sales mix negatively impacted the 2021 gross profit. Included in the gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2021 is depreciation of $1,957,357 compared to $2,204,917 for the same period in 2020.

Expenses

Total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $12,263,470, representing an increase of $1,861,681, or approximately 18%, compared to $10,401,789 for the same period in 2020.

Selling expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $4,564,188 compared to $2,918,418 for the same period in 2020, representing an increase of $1,645,770 or approximately 56%. This change is attributable to the pre-COVID-19 decision to hire new sales employees, for which the average number of sales employees increased from 13 in 2020 to 19 in 2021. Other expenses related to the update of the Company's website and other marketing materials have also resulted in increased selling expenses.

General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $5,836,629 compared to $6,205,040 for the same period in 2020, representing a decrease of $368,411, or 6%. The decrease in general and administrative expenses is attributable to the reduction of administrative employees, for which the average number of employees decreased from 22 in 2020 to 13 in 2021. Included in general and administrative expenses is non-cash compensation expenses of $481,105 and $343,780 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively, representing an increase of $137,327, or 40%, attributable to stock grants to members of the Board and management.

The following is a summary of our non-cash compensation:

                                                                                     2021      2020
Compensation for vesting of restricted stock awards issued to the Board of Directors  $         197,500   $   163,224 
Compensation for vesting of restricted stock awards issued to management              283,604   180,556 
Total Non-Cash Compensation                                                          $         481,105   $   343,780
Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $1,862,653 compared to $1,278,331 for the same period in 2020, representing an increase of $584,322, or 46%. This change is attributable to an increase in the average number of employees engaged in research and development activities as the Company focuses on the further development of existing and new products for the marine industry. The average number of employees engaged in research and development activities increased from 14 in 2020 to 17 in 2021.

Table of Contents

Other income (expenses)

Total Other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $(502,672) compared to $(2,018,398) for the comparable period in 2020, representing a decrease of $1,515,726, or 75%. Included in the Other income (expenses) for the year ended December 31, 2020 is the negative effect of $901,250 resulting from the fair value remeasurement of the prefunded warrants issued in May 2020. Additionally, the gain on currency transactions from the USD/DKK exchange rate impacted Other income as a gain by $668,255 in 2021 compared to a loss of $(1,469,607) in 2020, representing an increase of $2,137,862. Further, in 2021 interest expenses was $(708,176) compared to $(120,903) in 2020, which together with the Amortization discount of $(835,331), reflects the issuance of the Convertible Note in 2021.

Income taxes provision

The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $63,036 compared to a benefit of $465,145 for the comparable period in 2020, representing a decrease of $402,109 mainly driven by a reduction in tax credits associated with the Danish research and development activities.

Net Income/(Loss)

Net income/(loss) for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $(11,126,960) compared to $(9,808,360) for the comparable period in 2020, representing an increased loss of $1,318,600.

This change was primarily attributable to the decrease in revenue due to diminished demand for marine scrubbers, higher relative costs of goods sold as a percentage of revenue due to investments in production capacity across our Danish manufacturing facilities and inflationary pressure on both raw materials, electricity and salary related to hourly paid workers. The year-on-year development also reflects continued investments in the global sales organization and the research and development efforts leading to an overall increase in spend compared to 2020.

Table of Contents

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Based on the prolonged negative effects of the global pandemic, we are unable to predict the full impact that COVID-19 will have on our long-term financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. Our compliance with the measures implemented to avoid the spread of the virus had a material adverse impact on our financial results since March 2020. Based on current projections, which are subject to numerous uncertainties, including the duration and severity of the pandemic and containment measures along with the effect of these on the industries in which we compete, we believe our cash on hand, as well as our ongoing cash generated from operations, might not be sufficient to cover our capital requirements for the next 12 months from the issuance of this report as we consider further investments to generate revenue growth. In addition, as a result of the reduced order intake, continued supply chain disruptions, and decreased manufacturing levels, our future gross profit will also likely be unfavorably impacted until such time that we are able to operate our manufacturing facilities at higher capacity levels as originally planned prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Notwithstanding the reduction in our manufacturing levels and continued supply chain disruptions, based on our current rate of production, we believe that we will be able to fulfill most, if not all, of our existing delivery obligations in 2022.

While we anticipate that the foregoing measures are temporary, we cannot predict the specific duration for which these precautionary measures will stay in effect and how our business may be adversely affected as a result of the pandemic's global economic impact and associated supply chain disruptions. In the future, the pandemic may cause reduced or changed demand characteristics for our products, especially if it results in a global recession or structural shifts in the demand for our products across our end markets. It could also lead to limitations in our ability to produce and ship products caused by governmental actions and regulations to contain the spread of the virus along with disruptions in the global supply chain.

We have historically satisfied our capital and liquidity requirements through offerings of equity instruments, internally generated cash from operations and our available lines of credit. At the filing date, the Company had a line of credit amounting to DKK 20,000,000 ($3,000,000), which is used for a leasing arrangement pertaining to deliveries of high-temp furnaces.

On December 31, 2021, we had cash of $17,489,380 and net working capital of $11,199,258, and on December 31, 2020, we had cash of $13,264,449 and net working capital of $15,839,992. On December 31, 2021, our net working capital decreased by $4,640,734 compared to December 31, 2020, mainly as a result of the current portion of the Convertible Note and lower Accounts payable. This was partly offset by lower Accounts receivable and an increase in cash due to the proceeds from the issuance of a Convertible Note in April 2021.

In connection with certain orders, we provide the customer a working guarantee, a prepayment guarantee or a security bond. For that purpose, we maintain a guaranteed credit line of DKK13,000,000 (approximately $2,000,000). The credit line is secured by a cash deposit of $2,000,000.

Table of Contents

Cash Flows

Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020

Cash used by operating activities is net income (losses) adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. Cash used by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $7,203,843 compared to cash used by operating activities of $2,598,865 for the year ended December 31, 2020, representing a reduction of $4,604,978. The cash used by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 consists mainly of the net loss for the year of $(11,126,960) adjusted by depreciation and other non-cash related items of $3,992,529. Further, changes in assets and liabilities include decreased Accounts receivables of $971,460, a decline in Contract assets/liabilities of $455,185, and an increase in Accrued expenses of $798,543, offset by a decrease in Accounts payable of $532,718.

Net cash used in investing activities was $1,450,139 for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to $4,008,521 for the year ended December 31, 2020, representing a reduction of $2,558,382, or 64%. The investing activities include the purchase of property and equipment, especially related to the Danish manufacturing facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the investments mainly related to the new furnaces in Ballerup.

Cash provided by financing activities was $13,902,999 for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to $7,216,902 for the year ended December 31, 2020. This change of $6,686,097 was mainly attributable to the net cash proceeds of $14,283,333 related to the Convertible bond issuance in March 2021 compared to the capital raise in May 2020 of $7,237,127.

                                           2021         2020
Net Cash Used in Operating Activities       $            (7,203,843  )             $   (2,598,865  )
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities       (1,450,139  )             (4,008,521  )
Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities   13,902,999   7,216,902 
Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents     4,224,931    3,480,517 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period  $            17,489,380   $            13,264,449 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2021, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. We are not aware of any material transactions that are not disclosed in our consolidated financial statements.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our consolidated financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Our most critical accounting estimates include:

 ● The assessment of revenue recognition, which impacts revenue and cost of sales;
 ● The assessment of allowance for product warranties, which impacts gross margin;
 ● The assessment of collectability of accounts receivable, which impacts operating expenses when and if we record bad debt or adjust the allowance for doubtful accounts;
 ● The assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts gross margin or operating expenses when and if we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation;
 ● The recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of uncertain tax positions), which impact our provision for taxes;
 ● The valuation of inventory, which impacts gross profit; and
 ● The recognition and measurement of loss contingencies, which impact gross margin or operating expenses when we recognize a loss contingency, revise the estimate for a loss contingency, or record an asset impairment.
We discuss these policies further below, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.

Table of Contents

Accounts Receivable / Long Term Receivable / Allowance for Doubtful Accounts / Bad Debt

We assess the collectability of accounts receivable and long-term receivable on an ongoing basis and establish an allowance for doubtful accounts when collection is no longer reasonably assured. In establishing the allowance, we consider factors such as known troubled accounts, historical experience, age of receivables, financial and liquidity information that is publicly accessible, and other currently available evidence.

The roll-forward of the allowance for doubtful accounts for the year ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 was as follows:

                                                               2021      2020
Allowance for doubtful accounts at the beginning of the period  $         498,044   $          612,434 
Bad debt expense                                                (28,499  )          320,270 
Receivables written off during the periods                      (24,415  )          (484,265  )
Effect of currency translation                                  (36,054  )          49,605 
Allowance for doubtful accounts at the end of the period        $         409,076   $          498,044 
Goodwill and Definite-life intangible assets

The Company accounts for Goodwill and definite-life intangible assets in accordance with provisions of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 350, Intangibles, Goodwill and Other. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of Topic 350. Impairment losses arising from this impairment test, if any, are included in operating expenses in the period of impairment. Topic 350 requires that definite intangible assets with estimable useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment in accordance with Topic 360, criteria for recognition of an impairment of Long-Lived Assets.

The Company did not record an impairment charge on goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, as management's estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value determined during impairment testing in the fourth quarters of 2021 and 2020.

Long-Lived Assets

We assess the impairment of long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or the asset grouping may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under-performance of a business or product line in relation to expectations, significant negative industry or economic trends, and significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets. We measure the recoverability of assets that will continue to be used in our operations by comparing the carrying value of the asset grouping to our estimate of the related total future undiscounted net cash flows. If an asset grouping's carrying value is not recoverable through the related undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is measured by comparing the difference between the asset grouping's carrying value and its fair value.

Impairments of long-lived assets are determined for groups of assets related to the lowest level of identifiable independent cash flows. Due to our asset usage model and the interchangeable nature of our ceramic filter manufacturing capacity, we must make subjective judgments in determining the independent cash flows that can be related to specific asset groupings. In addition, as we make manufacturing process conversions and other factory planning decisions, we must make subjective judgments regarding the remaining useful lives of assets, primarily process-specific filter manufacturing tools and building improvements. If we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter than we had originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of depreciation over the assets' new, shorter useful lives.

Management has analyzed the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on its financial statements as of December 31, 2021 and has determined that the changes to its significant judgements and estimates did not have a material impact with respect to goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, no impairment charge of long-lived assets has been recorded.

Table of Contents

Revenue Recognition

On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," which includes clarifying ASUs issued in 2015, 2016 and 2017 ("new revenue standard"). The new revenue standard was applied to all open revenue contracts using the modified retrospective method as of January 1, 2018.

The Company sells products throughout the world; sales by geographical region are as follows:

              % Distribution For the Year Ended December 31
              2021           2020 2021  2020
North America  17             %    3     %   $            3,121,797    $   656,032 
Australia      2              %    2     %   401,485      524,255 
Asia           23             %    15    %   4,256,585    3,372,286 
Europe         58             %    80    %   10,493,574   17,973,628 
               100            %    100   %   $            18,273,442   $   22,526,201 
The Company's sales by product line are as follows for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

                           % Distribution For the Year Ended December 31
                           2021           2020 2021  2020
Liquid filters and systems  39             %    63    %   $           7,196,465    $   14,147,842 
Diesel particulate filters  39             %    22    %   7,183,868   5,131,891 
Plastics components         20             %    12    %   3,615,681   2,647,366 
Development projects        2              %    3     %   277,428     599,102 
                            100            %    100   %   $           18,273,442   $   22,526,201 
For membranes, diesel particulate filters and plastic components, revenue is recognized when performance obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied, which occurs when control of the product transfers to the customer or when services are rendered by the Company. The majority of the Company's sales contracts contain performance obligations satisfied at a point in time when title and risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. This generally occurs when the product is shipped or accepted by the customer. Revenue for service contracts is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration expected to be received in exchange for transferring the goods or providing services. The satisfaction of performance obligations under the terms of a revenue contract generally gives rise to the right for payment from the customer. The Company's standard payment terms vary by the type and location of the customer and the products or services offered. Generally, the time between when revenue is recognized and when payment is due is not significant. Pre-payments received prior to satisfaction of performance obligations are recorded as a Contract liability. Given the insignificant days between revenue recognition and receipt of payment, financing components do not exist between the Company and its customers.

For contracts with customers that include multiple performance obligations, judgment is required to determine whether performance obligations specified in these contracts are distinct and should be accounted for as separate revenue transactions for recognition purposes. For such arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling prices are generally determined based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost-plus margin.

System sales are recognized when the Company transfers control based upon signed acceptance of the system by the customer, which typically occurs upon shipment of the system in accordance with the terms of the contract. In connection with the system sale, it is normal procedure to issue a FAT (Factory Acceptance Test) stating that the customer has accepted the performance of the system as it is being shipped from our production facility in Hobro. As part of the performance obligation, the customer is normally offered commissioning services (final assembly and configuration at a place designated by the customer), and this commissioning is therefore considered a second performance obligation and is valued at cost, with the addition of a standard gross margin. This second performance obligation is recognized as revenue at the time of provision of the commissioning services together with the cost incurred. Part of the invoicing to the customer is also attributed to the commissioning, and at transfer of the control of the system (i.e. the first performance obligation), some of the invoicing will still be awaiting commissioning and is therefore recognized as Contract assets.

Table of Contents

Aftermarket sales represent parts, extended warranties, and maintenance services. For the sale of aftermarket parts, the Company transfers control and recognizes revenue when parts are shipped to the customer. When customers are given the right to return eligible parts and accessories, the Company estimates the expected returns based on an analysis of historical experience. The Company adjusts estimated revenues at the earlier of when the most likely amount of consideration expected to be received changes or when the consideration becomes fixed. The Company recognizes revenue for extended warranty and maintenance agreements based on the standalone selling price over the life of the contract.

The Company has received long-term contracts for grants from government entities for the development and use of silicon carbide membranes in various water filtration and treatment applications and historically in the installation of various water filtrations systems. We measure transfer of control of the performance obligation on long-term contracts utilizing the cost-to-cost measure of progress, with cost of revenue including direct costs such as labor and materials. Under the cost-to-cost approach, the use of estimated costs to complete each performance obligation is a significant variable in the process of determining recognized revenue and a significant factor in the accounting for such performance obligations. The timing of when we bill our customers is generally dependent upon advance billings terms, milestone billings based on completion of certain phases of the work or when services are provided, or when products are shipped. Projects with performance obligations recognized over time that have costs and estimated earnings recognized to date in excess of cumulative billings are reported on our balance sheet as Contract assets. Projects with performance obligations recognized over time that have cumulative billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings recognized to date are reported on our balance sheet as Contract liabilities.

Contract assets are the Company's rights to consideration in exchange for goods or services and is recognized when a performance obligation has been satisfied but has not yet been billed. Contract assets are transferred to receivables when the right to consideration is unconditional and billed per the terms of the contractual agreement. Contract liabilities are payments received from customers prior to satisfaction of performance obligations, and these balances are typically related to prepayments for third-party expenses that are incurred shortly after billing. Contract liabilities also include deferred revenue related to the second performance obligation stated under Revenue Recognition, where the obligation is attributed to the commissioning of the water treatment system.

The roll-forward of Contract assets / liabilities for the periods ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 is as follows:

                            December 31,2021 December 31,2020
Cost incurred                $                3,381,994   $            3,997,161 
Unbilled project deliveries  454,158          1,015,977 
VAT                          542,255          446,608 
Other receivables            60,158           75,010 
Prepayments                  (2,947,736      )            (3,112,118  )
Deferred Revenue             (499,146        )            (866,680    )
                             $                991,682     $            1,555,958 
                            

Distributed as follows:
Contract assets              $                1,906,510   $            2,708,136 
Contract liabilities         (914,828        )            (1,152,178  )
                             $                991,682     $            1,555,958 
Income Taxes

We must make estimates and judgments in determining the provision for income taxes for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities that arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes. Significant changes in these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period.

We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. We believe that we will ultimately recover the deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. Should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, however, our tax provision would increase in the period in which we determined that the recovery was not likely. Recovery of a portion of our deferred tax assets is impacted by management's plans and methods of allocating research and development costs to the underlying reporting units.

Table of Contents

The calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in Denmark and the United States. When a tax position is determined uncertain, we recognize liabilities based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. If we determine that a tax position will more likely than not be sustained on audit, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we must determine the probability of various possible outcomes. If uncertainties arise, we re-evaluate the tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors such as changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, new audit activity, and effectively settled issues. Determining whether an uncertain tax position is effectively settled requires judgment. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.

Inventory

The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of excess or obsolete inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The estimate of future demand is compared to work-in-process and finished goods inventory levels to determine the amount, if any, of excess or obsolete inventory. As of December 31, 2021, we had total furnace parts and supplies of $213,224, raw materials of $2,144,076, work-in-process inventory of $1,671,290, total finished goods inventory of $1,660,907 and a reserve for excess and obsolescence of $268,470. The estimated future demand is included in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans to enable consistency between inventory valuation and production decisions. Product-specific facts and circumstances reviewed in the inventory valuation process include a review of the customer base, acceptance of the product by the customer and the various environmental authorities, competitors' products, as well as an assessment of the selling price in relation to the product cost. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand, and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write off inventory or increase our allowance, which would negatively impact our gross profit.

In order to determine what costs can be included in the valuation of inventory, we must determine normal capacity at our manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, based on historical production, compared to total available capacity. If the factory production is below the established normal capacity level, a portion of our manufacturing overhead costs would not be included in the cost of inventory, and therefore would be recognized as cost of sales in that period, which would negatively impact our gross profit. We refer to these costs as excess capacity charges. The Company has been operating below capacity, and excess capacity charges have been recognized as cost of sales.

Loss Contingencies

We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings along with asserted and potential claims, accruals related to product warranties and potential asset impairments (loss contingencies) that arise in the ordinary course of business. An estimated loss from such contingencies is recognized as a charge to income if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure of a loss contingency is required if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred. The outcomes of legal and administrative proceedings and claims, and the estimation of product warranties and asset impairments, are subject to significant uncertainty. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. To estimate the losses associated with repairing and replacing parts in connection with product warranty, we make judgments with respect to customer claim rates. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter, and we may revise our estimates. These revisions could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

We are not required to provide quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk because we are a smaller reporting company.

Table of Contents

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                                             Page
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm(PCAOB ID3627)                        36
                                                                                             

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2021 and 2020                                    38
                                                                                             

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020         40
                                                                                             

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020  41
                                                                                             

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders'Equity for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 42
                                                                                             

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020          44
                                                                                             

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements                                               46
Table of Contents

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of LiqTech International, Inc.:

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of LiqTech International, Inc. ("the Company") as of December 31, 2021, and 2020, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive loss, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2021, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021, and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2021, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Explanatory Paragraph Regarding Going Concern

The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company incurred a net loss, which raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans regarding these matters are also described in Note 2. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB") and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.

Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) related to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgements. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.

Inventory Costing

As described in Notes 1 and 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company uses a standard costing method to value inventory. Management reviews and assesses the standard costing estimates annually or more frequently in the event circumstances indicate a change in cost structure or material variance from actual has occurred. In addition to raw materials and labor, the Company applies a production overhead allocation cost to each item.

We identified the auditing of inventory costing as a critical audit matter because of the significant estimates and assumptions management used in the determination of the standard costing allocation and overhead allocations. Performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of these estimates and assumptions required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort.

Table of Contents

Our audit procedures consisted of the following:

●

Obtaining an understanding and testing management's process for developing the standard costing model and overhead allocations.

●

Assessing the accuracy, completeness, and reasonableness of the costs included in the standard costing model and overhead allocation to ensure all costs capitalized were appropriate, complete and proper.

●

Evaluating the appropriateness and reasonableness of the assumptions used by management to allocate costs to specific costs, including assessing the reasonableness of production times, labor requirement and energy usage.

●

Performing cost testing on raw material inputs purchased by tracing the recorded costs to supporting third party invoices.

Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has some contracts with customers that contain multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, management accounts for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. As described by management, management exercises judgment and uses estimates in order to (1) determine whether performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately; (2) determine the standalone selling price of each performance obligation; (3) allocate the transaction price among the various performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis; and (4) determine whether revenue for each performance obligation should be recognized at a point in time or over time. Revenue recognized in 2021 related to contracts with multiple performance obligations was approximately $7.2 million.

We identified the auditing of revenue from contracts with multiple performance obligations as a critical audit matter because there was significant judgments by management in identifying, evaluating and accounting for performance obligations in contracts with multiple performance obligations, which led to significant auditor judgment and effort in performing procedures to evaluate whether contracts with multiple performance obligations were appropriately identified, evaluated and accounted for by management.

Our audit procedures consisted of the following:

●

Obtaining an understanding and testing management's process for identifying, evaluating, and accounting for contracts with multiple performance obligations.

●

Examining revenue arrangements on a test basis, including evaluating the terms and conditions of the arrangements and testing the identification, evaluation, and accounting of the performance obligation.

●

Performing procedures to test the completeness and accuracy of the data used to determine stand-alone selling price.

●

Evaluating the reasonableness of the approach used to determine stand-alone selling price.

/s/ Sadler, Gibb & Associates, LLC

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2018.

Draper, UT

March 30, 2022

Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                                                                                    As of        As of
                                                                                                    December 31, December 31,
                                                                                                    2021         2020
Current Assets:
Cash, cash equivalents and Restricted cash                                                           $            17,489,380   $   13,264,449 
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $409,076and $498,044at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively 1,957,579    3,129,109 
Inventories, net of allowance for excess and obsolete inventory of $268,470and $723,949at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively 5,421,027    5,522,038 
Contract assets                                                                                      1,906,510    2,708,136 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                            1,292,285    1,031,194 
                                                                                                    

Total Current Assets                                                                                 28,066,781   25,654,926 
                                                                                                    

Long-Term Assets:
Property and Equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $7,554,803and $8,908,145at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively 8,858,993    10,321,511 
Operating lease right-of-use assets                                                                  6,925,807    4,947,734 
Deposits and other assets                                                                            628,109      545,673 
Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $357,231and $269,441at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively 334,743      480,060 
Goodwill                                                                                             240,259      260,233 
                                                                                                    

Total Long-term Assets                                                                               16,987,911   16,555,211 
                                                                                                    

Total Assets                                                                                        $            45,054,692   $   42,210,137
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                                                                                    As of         As of
                                                                                                    December 31,  December 31,
                                                                                                    2021          2020
Current Liabilities:
Accounts payable                                                                                     $             1,646,662   $             2,332,151 
Accrued expenses                                                                                     4,685,665     4,909,531 
Current portion of finance lease obligations                                                         373,824       394,839 
Current portion of operating lease liabilities                                                       846,544       1,026,235 
Current portion of convertible note payable                                                          8,400,000     - 
Contract liabilities                                                                                 914,828       1,152,178 
                                                                                                    

Total Current Liabilities                                                                            16,867,523    9,814,934 
                                                                                                    

Deferred tax liability                                                                               224,779       305,167 
Other liabilities, net of current portion                                                            346,939       - 
Finance lease obligation, net of current portion                                                     2,499,591     3,112,496 
Operating lease liability, net of current portion                                                    6,154,064     4,159,225 
Convertible note payable, less current portion                                                       6,186,936     - 
                                                                                                    

Total Long-term liabilities                                                                          15,412,309    7,576,888 
                                                                                                    

Total Liabilities                                                                                    32,279,832    17,391,822 
                                                                                                    

Stockholders' Equity:
Preferred stock; par value $0.001, 2,500,000shares authorized, 0and 0shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively -             - 
Common stock; par value $0.001, 100,000,000shares authorized 21,285,706and 21,655,461shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively 21,285        21,655 
Additional paid-in capital                                                                           70,910,902    69,897,698 
Accumulated deficit                                                                                  (53,181,928  )            (42,054,968  )
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                                 (4,975,399   )            (3,046,070   )
                                                                                                    

Total Stockholders' Equity                                                                           12,774,860    24,818,315 
                                                                                                    

Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity                                                          $             45,054,692  $             42,210,137
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

                                                             For the Years Ended
                                                             December 31,
                                                             2021          2020
Revenue                                                       $             18,273,442   $             22,526,201 
Cost of Goods Sold                                            16,697,296    20,379,519 
                                                             

Gross Profit                                                  1,576,146     2,146,682 
                                                             

Operating Expenses:
Selling expenses                                              4,564,188     2,918,418 
General and administrative expenses                           5,836,629     6,205,040 
Research and development expenses                             1,862,653     1,278,331 
                                                             

Total Operating Expenses                                      12,263,470    10,401,789 
                                                             

Loss from Operations                                          (10,687,324  )             (8,255,107   )
                                                             

Other Income (Expense)
Gain on modification of earn-out liability                    -             306,077 
Interest and other income                                     371,467       139,513 
Interest expense                                              (708,176     )             (120,903     )
Amortization of discount on convertible note                  (835,331     )
Fair value adjustment of warrants                             -             (901,250     ) 
Gain (Loss) on currency transactions                          668,225       (1,469,607  )
Gain (Loss) on sale of fixed assets                           1,113         27,772 
                                                             

Total Other Income (Expense)                                  (502,672     )             (2,018,398    ) 
                                                             

Loss Before Income Taxes                                      (11,189,996  )             (10,273,505  )
                                                             

Income Tax Benefit                                            (63,036      )             (465,145     )
                                                             

Net Loss                                                      (11,126,960  )             (9,808,360    ) 
                                                             

Basic and Diluted Loss Per Share                              $             (0.52       )              $   (0.46  )
                                                             

Basic and Diluted Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding  21,567,112    21,209,118 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

                                                              For the Years Ended
                                                              December 31,
                                                              2021          2020
                                                              

Net Loss                                                       (11,126,960  )              (9,808,360   ) 
                                                              

Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) - Currency Translation, net  (1,929,329   )              3,120,489 
                                                              

Total Comprehensive Loss                                       $             (13,056,289  )             $   (6,687,871  )
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2021and 2020

                                                Common Stock  AdditionalPaid-in Accumulated   AccumulatedOtherCompre-hensive
                                                Shares        Amount            Capital       Deficit       Income (Loss) TOTAL
                                                

BALANCE, December 31, 2020                       21,655,461    21,655            69,897,698    (42,054,968  )              (3,046,070  )  24,818,315 
                                                

Common stock issued in settlement of RSUs        50,245        50                (50          )             -
                                                

Common shares issued for Convertible Note        80,000        80                531,649       531,729 
                                                

Exchange of common stock to prefunded warrants   (500,000      )                 (500         )              500          -
                                                

Stock-based compensation                         481,105       481,105 
                                                

Currency translation, net                        (1,929,329   )                  (1,929,329   )
                                                

Net Income for the year ended December 31, 2021  (11,126,960  )                  (11,126,960  )
                                                

BALANCE, December 31, 2021                       21,285,706    21,285            70,910,092    (53,181,928  )              (4,975,399  )  12,774,860 
Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2020and 2019

                                                                                            Common Stock AdditionalPaid-in Accumulated  AccumulatedOtherCompre-hensive
                                                                                            Shares       Amount            Capital      Deficit       Income (Loss) TOTAL
                                                                                            

BALANCE, December 31, 2019                                                                   20,547,668   20,548            61,398,150   (32,246,608  )              (6,166,559  )  23,005,531 
                                                                                            

Common shares issued per Board authorization of RSUs for services by the board of directors  8,212        8                 44,992       45,000 
                                                                                            

Common shares issued to settle RSUs for services provided by the board of directors          8,333        8                 (8          )              - 
                                                                                            

Stock-based compensation                                                                     298,780      298,780 
                                                                                            

Exercise of stock options                                                                    6,248        6                 18,494       18,500 
                                                                                            

Common shares issued for cash at $5.00per share, net of offering cost of $762,875, May 2020  1,085,000    1,085             4,661,040    4,662,125 
                                                                                            

Prefunded warrants, 515,000, transferred to equity upon modification in August 2020          3,476,250    3,476,250 
                                                                                            

Currency translation, net                                                                    3,120,489    3,120,489 
                                                                                            

Net Income for the year ended December 31, 2020                                              (9,808,360  )                  (9,808,360  )
                                                                                            

BALANCE, December 31, 2020                                                                   21,655,461   21,655            69,897,698   (42,054,968  )              (3,046,070  )  24,818,315 
Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                                  For the years Ended
                                                                  December 31,
                                                                  2021         2020
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Net Income (Loss)                                                  $            (11,126,960  )             $   (9,808,360  )
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by (used in) operations:
Depreciation and amortization                                      2,740,241    2,827,341 
Amortization of discount on convertible notes payable              835,331      - 
Stock-based compensation                                           481,105      343,780 
Change in fair value of warrant liability                          -            901,250 
Gain on modification of earn-out liability                         -            (306,077     )
Change in deferred tax asset / liability                           (63,036     )              (63,200     )
Loss (Gain) on sale of equipment                                   (1,113      )              (27,772     )
Changes in assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable                                                971,460      3,143,651 
Inventory                                                          (336,651    )              (322,800    )
Contract assets                                                    610,476      2,522,275 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets                          479,423      565 
Accounts payable                                                   (532,718    )              (2,006,919  )
Accrued expenses                                                   798,543      1,355,846 
Operating lease liabilities                                        (945,808    )              (874,441    )
Contract liabilities                                               (155,291    )              (269,198    )
Income taxes payable                                               -            (14,806      )
                                                                  

Total Adjustments                                                  3,923,117    7,209,495 
                                                                  

Net Cash used in Operating Activities                              (7,203,843  )              (2,598,865  )
                                                                  

Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
Purchase of property and equipment                                 (1,133,378  )              (3,754,166  )
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment                       1,113        102,416 
Purchase of other intangible assets                                -            (55,198      )
Net cash paid for acquisition                                      (317,874    )              (301,573    )
                                                                  

Net Cash used in Investing Activities                              (1,450,139  )              (4,008,521  )
                                                                  

Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
Payments on finance lease obligation                               (380,334    )              (38,725     )
Proceeds from convertible notes payable, net                       14,283,333   - 
Proceeds from exercise of stock options                            -            18,500 
Proceeds from issuance of prefunded warrants                       -            2,575,000 
Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net                        -            4,662,127 
                                                                  

Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities                          13,902,999   7,216,902 
                                                                  

Effect of foreign currency exchange on cash                        (1,024,086  )              2,871,001 
                                                                  

Net Change in Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash           4,224,931    3,480,517 
                                                                  

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at Beginning of Period  13,264,449   9,783,932 
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash at End of Period        $            17,489,380    $            13,264,449 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Table of Contents

LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                                   For the Years EndedDecember 31,
                                                                   2021        2020
Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information:
Cash paid during the period for:
Interest                                                            $           635,671   $   103,953 
Income Taxes                                                        $           $         13,726 
                                                                   

Non-cash financing activities
Original issue discount on convertible note                         1,800,000   - 
Convertible Note debt conversion feature                            3,048,396   - 
Debt issuance costs on convertible note                             716,667     - 
Common Stock issued in conjunction with convertible note financing  531,729     - 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Table of Contents

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Business and Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of LiqTech International, Inc., the "Company" and its subsidiaries. The terms "Company", "us", "we" and "our" as used in this report refer to the Company and its subsidiaries, which are set forth below. The Company engages in the development, design, production, marketing and sale of automated filtering systems, ceramic silicon carbide liquid applications and diesel particulate air filters in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and South America. Set forth below is a description of the Company and each of its subsidiaries:

LiqTech International, Inc., a Nevada corporation organized in July 2004, formerly known as Blue Moose Media, Inc.

LiqTech USA, a Delaware corporation and a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company formed in May 2011.

LiqTech Holding A/S (formerly known as LiqTech International A/S), a Danish corporation, incorporated on January 15, 2000 ("LiqTech Holding"), a 100% owned subsidiary of LiqTech USA, handling all joint group activities such as management, marketing, finance, IT etc.

LiqTech NA, Inc. ("LiqTech NA"), incorporated in Delaware on July 1, 2005, a 100% owned subsidiary of LiqTech USA, engaged in the production, marketing and sale of ceramic diesel particulate and liquid filters in the United States and Canada. LiqTech NA has closed operations in January 2021, and all activity in this company has ceased.

LiqTech Water A/S (formerly known as LiqTech Systems A/S), a Danish Corporation ("LiqTech Water"), incorporated on September 1, 2009, engaged in the manufacture of fully automated filtering systems for use within marine applications, municipal pool and spa applications, and other industrial applications within Denmark and international markets.

LiqTech Plastics A/S (formerly known as BS Plastic A/S), a Danish Corporation ("LiqTech Plastics"), acquired on September 1, 2019, engaged in the manufacture of specialized machined and welded plastic parts within Denmark and international markets.

LiqTech Ceramics A/S, a Danish corporation ("LiqTech Ceramics"), incorporated on December 20, 2019, engaged in the development, design, application, marketing and sales of membranes, ceramic diesel particulate and liquid filters, and catalytic converters in Europe, Asia and South America.

LiqTech Water Projects A/S, a Danish corporation ("LiqTech Water Projects"), incorporated on July 28, 2020 that is a dormant company without activity. This company was formed to include the investments for our joint venture in the Middle East.

LiqTech Emission Control A/S, a Danish corporation ("LiqTech Emission Control"), incorporated on March 1, 2021 that is a dormant company without activity. This company was formed to include the investments for our joint venture in China.

LiqTech Environment Technologies (China) Co. Ltd. ("LiqTech China"), incorporated on September 23, 2021, to be engaged in the development, design, application, marketing and sales of ceramic diesel particulate, liquid filters, and catalytic converters in Asia.

LiqTech Germany ("LiqTech Germany"), a 100% owned subsidiary of LiqTech Holding, incorporated in Germany on December 9, 2011. This company is in the process of closing operations, and all activity in this company has ceased.

LiqTech PTE Ltd ("LiqTech Singapore"), a 95% owned subsidiary of LiqTech Holding, incorporated in Singapore on January 19, 2012. This company is in the process of closing operations, and all activity in this company has ceased.

Consolidation-- The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and its majority-owned subsidiary. All material intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in the consolidation.

Table of Contents

Reclassification - Certain amounts presented in previously issued financial statements have been reclassified to be consistent with the current period presentation. In the statement of operations and comprehensive loss, the Company has reclassified the prior year comparative amounts of general and administrative expenses and other expenses to be consistent with the current classification.

Functional Currency / Foreign currency translation-- The functional currency of LiqTech International, Inc., and LiqTech USA, Inc. is the U.S. Dollar. The functional currency of LiqTech Holding, LiqTech Water, LiqTech Plastics, LiqTech Ceramics, LiqTech Water Projects and LiqTech Emission Control is the Danish Krone ("DKK"); the functional currency of LiqTech China is the Renminbi ("RMB"); the functional currency of LiqTech Germany is the Euro; and the functional currency of LiqTech Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. The Company's reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar for the purpose of these consolidated financial statements. The balance sheet accounts of the foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at the period-end exchange rates, and all revenue and expenses are translated into U.S. Dollars at the average exchange rates prevailing during the twelve months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Translation gains and losses are deferred and accumulated as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity. Transaction gains and losses that arose from exchange rate fluctuations from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are included in the statement of operations as incurred.

Significant events-- In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") a pandemic, which has resulted in authorities across the globe implementing numerous measures to contain the virus, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and business limitations and shutdowns. In response to measures taken by state and local governments in mid- March 2020, we initially elected to temporarily introduce two shifts at our production facilities to minimize the risk of infection and to implement health and safety actions recommended by government and health officials to better protect our employees who are required to be present at our production facilities. In addition, many of our employees have been working remotely for select periods in line with recommendations from the government agencies. Throughout 2021 and up until the date of this report, we are maintaining our focus on securing operational continuity despite the infrequent restrictions imposed on our business from various cycles of the pandemic. We strive to protect our employee by maintaining focus on relevant COVID protective measures including, but limited to, maintaining physical distance, cleaning and disinfection of high-touch surfaces, and a general recommendation to our employees to follow government guidelines on vaccination and testing strategy.

We are unable to accurately predict the full impact that COVID-19 will have on our long-term financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows, and our compliance with the measures implemented to avoid the spread of the virus did have a material adverse impact on our financial results for the fiscal year 2021. Based on current projections, which are subject to numerous uncertainties, including the duration and severity of the pandemic and containment measures along with the effect of these on the industries in which we compete, we believe our cash on hand, as well as our ongoing cash generated from operations, might not be sufficient to cover our capital requirements for the next 12 months from the issuance of this report as we consider further investments to generate revenue growth. In addition, as a result of the reduced order intake, continued supply chain disruptions, and decreased manufacturing levels, our future gross profit will also likely be unfavorably impacted until such time that we are able to operate our manufacturing facilities at higher capacity levels as originally planned prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Notwithstanding the reduction in our manufacturing levels and continued supply chain disruptions, based on our current rate of production, we believe that we will be able to fulfill most, if not all, of our existing delivery obligations in 2022.

While we anticipate that the foregoing measures are temporary, we cannot predict the specific duration for which these precautionary measures will stay in effect and how our business may be adversely affected as a result of the pandemic's global economic impact and associated supply chain disruptions. In the future, the pandemic may cause reduced or changed demand characteristics for our products, especially if it results in a global recession or structural shifts in the demand for our products across our end markets.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash-- The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2021, and 2020, the Company held $2,125,695 and $1,515,620, respectively, of restricted cash. The restricted cash is held as security by a local financial institution for ensuring a leasing facility and for payment guarantees issued for the benefit of customers in connection with prepayments of sales orders and for warranties after the delivery of sales orders.

Accounts held in each U.S. institution are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company ("FDIC") up to $250,000. At December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 the Company had $11,346,826 and $0 in excess of the FDIC insured limit, respectively.

Accounts Receivable-- Accounts receivable consist of trade receivables arising in the normal course of business. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts that reflects the Company's best estimate of probable losses inherent in the accounts receivable balance. The Company determines the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, age, financial information that is publicly accessible and other currently available evidence.

Table of Contents

The roll-forward of the allowance for doubtful accounts as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 is as follows:

                                                               2021      2020
Allowance for doubtful accounts at the beginning of the period  $         498,044   $          612,434 
Bad debt expense                                                (28,499  )          320,270 
Receivables written off during the periods                      (24,415  )          (484,265  )
Effect of currency translation                                  (36,054  )          49,605 
Allowance for doubtful accounts at the end of the period        $         409,076   $          498,044 
Inventory - Inventory directly purchased is carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value, as determined on the first-in, first-out method.

For inventory produced, standard costs that approximate actual cost on the FIFO method are used to value inventory. Standard costs are reviewed at least annually by management, or more often in the event that circumstances indicate a change in cost has occurred.

Work in process and finished goods include material, labor, and production overhead costs. The Company adjusts the value of its inventory to the extent management determines that the cost cannot be recovered due to obsolescence or other factors.

Inventory valuation adjustments for excess and obsolete inventory are calculated based on current inventory levels, movement, expected useful lives, and estimated future demand of the products and spare parts.

Contracts Assets - Contract assets are the Company's rights to consideration in exchange for goods or services and are recognized when a performance obligation has been satisfied but has not yet been billed. When the Company issues invoices to the customer, and the billing is higher than the capitalized Contract assets, the net amount is transferred to Contract liabilities. Contract assets/liabilities are transferred to revenue and cost of goods sold when the right to consideration is unconditional and billed per the terms of the contractual agreement.

Contract assets also include unbilled receivables, which usually comprise the last invoice remaining after the delivery of the water treatment unit, where revenue is recognized at the transfer of control based upon signed acceptance of the water treatment unit by the customer. Most commonly this invoice is sent to the customer at commissioning of the product or no later than 12 months after the delivery. Further included in Contract Assets are short-term receivables such as VAT and other receivables.

Leases-- The Company has elected to not recognize lease assets and liabilities with an initial term of 12 months or less and to not separate lease and non-lease components. The Company's accounting for finance leases (formerly called capital lease obligations) remains substantially unchanged. Operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of the Company's leases do not provide an implicit rate, an incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date is used in determining the present value. The Company will use the implicit rate when readily determinable. The operating lease ROU asset also included prepaid lease payments and reduced by accrued lease payments. The Company's lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that those options will be exercised. Operating lease cost for lease payments will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Property and Equipment-- Property and equipment are stated at cost. Expenditures for major renewals and betterments that extend the useful lives of property and equipment are capitalized upon being placed in service. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation is computed for financial statement purposes on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from threeto tenyears.

Table of Contents

Goodwill and Intangible Assets-- The purchase price of an acquired company is allocated between intangible assets and the net tangible assets of the acquired business, with the residual purchase price recorded as goodwill. The determination of the value of the intangible assets acquired involves certain judgments and estimates. These judgments can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future and the appropriate weighted average cost of capital.

Acquired intangible assets with determinable useful lives are amortized on a straight-line or accelerated basis over the estimated periods benefited, ranging from oneto tenyears. Customer relationships and other non-contractual intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized over periods of fiveyears.

The Company evaluates the recoverability of long-lived assets by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to estimated future net undiscounted cash flows generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. The evaluation of recoverability involves estimates of future operating cash flows based upon certain forecasted assumptions, including, but not limited to, revenue growth rates, gross profit margins, and operating expenses over the expected remaining useful life of the related asset. A shortfall in these estimated operating cash flows could result in an impairment charge in the future.

Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated annually for impairment at the reporting unit level or when indicators of a potential impairment are present. The Company estimates the fair value of the reporting unit using the discounted cash flow and market approaches. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on the Company's best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, using primarily expected category expansion, pricing, market segment fundamentals, and general economic conditions.

Revenue Recognition -- On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," which includes clarifying ASUs issued in 2015,2016 and 2017 ("new revenue standard"). The new revenue standard was applied to all open revenue contracts using the modified retrospective method as of January 1, 2018.

The Company sells products throughout the world; sales by geographical region are as follows for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

              % Distribution For the Year Ended December 31
              2021           2020 2021  2020
North America  17             %    3     %   $            3,121,797    $   656,032 
Australia      2              %    2     %   401,485      524,255 
Asia           23             %    15    %   4,256,585    3,372,286 
Europe         58             %    80    %   10,493,574   17,973,628 
               100            %    100   %   $            18,273,442   $   22,526,201 
The Company's sales by product line are as follows for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

                           % Distribution For the Year Ended December 31
                           2021           2020 2021  2020
Liquid filters and systems  39             %    63    %   $           7,196,465    $   14,147,842 
Diesel particulate filters  39             %    22    %   7,183,868   5,131,891 
Plastics components         20             %    12    %   3,615,681   2,647,366 
Development projects        2              %    3     %   277,428     599,102 
                            100            %    100   %   $           18,273,442   $   22,526,201 
For membranes, diesel particulate filters and plastic components, revenue is recognized when performance obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied, which occurs when control of the product transfers to the customer or when services are rendered by the Company. The majority of the Company's sales contracts contain performance obligations satisfied at a point in time when title and risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. This generally occurs when the product is shipped or accepted by the customer. Revenue for service contracts is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration expected to be received in exchange for transferring the goods or providing services. The satisfaction of performance obligations under the terms of a revenue contract generally gives rise to the right for payment from the customer. The Company's standard payment terms vary by the type and location of customer and the products or services offered. Generally, the time between when revenue is recognized and when payment is due is not significant. Pre-payments received prior to satisfaction of performance obligations are recorded as a Contract liability. Given the insignificant days between revenue recognition and receipt of payment, financing arrangements do not exist between the Company and its customers.

Table of Contents

For contracts with customers that include multiple performance obligations, judgment is required to determine whether performance obligations specified in these contracts are distinct and should be accounted for as separate revenue transactions for recognition purposes. For such arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling prices are generally based on the prices charged to customers or expected cost-plus margin.

System sales are recognized when the Company transfers control to the customer based upon sales and delivery conditions stated in the sales contract. This typically occurs upon shipment of the system from the production facility but can also occur upon other agreed delivery terms. In connection with the completion of the system, it is normal procedure to issue a FAT (Factory Acceptance Test) stating that the customer has accepted the performance of the system as it is being shipped from our production facility in Hobro. As part of the performance obligation, the customer is normally offered commissioning services (final assembly and configuration at a place designated by the customer), and this commissioning is therefore considered a second performance obligation and is valued at cost, with the addition of a standard gross margin. This second performance obligation is recognized as revenue at the time of provision of the commissioning services together with the cost incurred. Part of the invoicing to the customer is also attributed to the commissioning, and at transfer of the control of the system (i.e. the first performance obligation), some of the invoicing will still be awaiting commissioning and is therefore recognized as Contract assets.

Aftermarket sales represent parts, extended warranties and maintenance services. For the sale of aftermarket parts, the Company transfers control and recognizes revenue when parts are shipped to the customer. When customers are given the right to return eligible parts and accessories, the Company estimates the expected returns based on an analysis of historical experience. The Company adjusts estimated revenues at the earlier of when the most likely amount of consideration expected to be received changes or when the consideration becomes fixed. The Company recognizes revenue for extended warranty and maintenance agreements based on the standalone selling price over the life of the contract.

The Company has received long-term contracts for grants from government entities for the development and use of silicon carbide membranes in various water filtration and treatment applications and historically in the installation of various water filtrations systems. We measure transfer of control of the performance obligation on long-term contracts utilizing the cost-to-cost measure of progress, with cost of revenue including direct costs, such as labor and materials. Under the cost-to-cost approach, the use of estimated costs to complete each performance obligation is a significant variable in the process of determining recognized revenue and a significant factor in the accounting for such performance obligations. The timing of when we bill our customers is generally dependent upon advance billings terms, milestone billings based on completion of certain phases of the work or when services are provided, or products are shipped. Projects with performance obligations recognized over time that have costs and estimated earnings recognized to date in excess of cumulative billings are reported on our balance sheet as Contract assets. Projects with performance obligations recognized over time that have cumulative billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings recognized to date are reported on our balance sheet as Contract liabilities.

The roll-forward of Contract Assets/Liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 is:

                            2021         2020
Cost incurred                $            3,381,994   $            3,997,161 
Unbilled project deliveries  454,158      1,015,977 
VAT                          542,255      446,608 
Other receivables            60,158       75,010 
Prepayments                  (2,947,736  )            (3,112,118  )
Deferred Revenue             (499,146    )            (866,680    )
                             $            991,682     $            1,555,958 
                            

Distributed as follows:
Contract assets              $            1,906,510   $            2,708,136 
Contract liabilities         (914,828    )            (1,152,178  )
                             $            991,682     $            1,555,958 
Table of Contents

Advertising Cost-- Costs incurred in connection with advertising of the Company's products is expensed as incurred. Advertising cost is included in sales expenses, and total advertising costs amounted to $308,880 and $128,826 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Research and Development Cost-- The Company expenses research and development costs for the development of new products as incurred. Included in operating expense for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $1,862,653 and $1,278,331, respectively, of research and development costs.

Income Taxes-- The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740: Accounting for Income Taxes. This statement requires an asset and liability approach for accounting for income taxes.

Income/(Loss)Per Share-- The Company calculates earnings (loss) per share in accordance with FASB ASC 260, Earnings Per Share. Basic earnings per common share (EPS) are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per common share are based on shares outstanding (computed as under basic EPS) and potentially dilutive common shares. Potential common shares included in the diluted earnings per share calculation include in-the-money stock options and warrants that have been granted but have not been exercised.

Stock Options and Awards-- During the years presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company has granted stock options and awards. The Company accounts for options in accordance with the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation. Stock-based compensation costs of $481,105 and $343,780 have been recognized for the vesting of options and stock awards granted to directors, management and certain key employees for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Warrant Liability-- The Company issued common stock warrants in May 2020 in conjunction with an equity financing. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity ("ASC 480"), the fair value of these warrants was initially classified as a liability on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet because, according to the original terms of the warrants, a fundamental transaction could have given rise to an obligation of the Company to pay cash to its warrant holders, which was out of the control of the Company.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments-- The Company accounts for fair value measurements for financial assets and liabilities in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 820. The authoritative guidance, which, among other things, defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure for each major asset and liability category measured at fair value on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis. Fair value is defined as the exit price, representing the amount that would either be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. As a basis for considering such assumptions, the guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows:

 ● Level 1. Observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 ● Level 2. Inputs, other than the quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly; and
 ● Level 3. Unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions.
Unless otherwise disclosed, the fair value of the Company's financial instruments including cash, accounts receivable, other receivables, prepaid expenses, accounts payable, and accrued expenses approximate their recorded values due to their short-term maturities.

Accounting Estimates-- The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets including accounts receivable; allowance for doubtful accounts; reserve for excess and obsolete inventory; depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; liabilities including contingencies; the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements; warrant liability; and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimated.

Table of Contents

Recent Accounting Pronouncements - In November 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-10, Disclosures by Business Entities about Government Assistance: The FASB is issuing this Update to increase the transparency of government assistance including the disclosure of (1) the types of assistance, (2) an entity's accounting for the assistance, and (3) the effect of the assistance on an entity's financial statements. The ASU will be effective for annual reporting periods after December 15, 2021. We are still assessing the impact of ASU 2021-10 on our consolidated financial statements.

On August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entity's Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity's Own Equity. This ASU amends the guidance on convertible instruments and the derivatives scope exception for contracts in an entity's own equity and improves and amends the related EPS guidance for both Subtopics. The ASU will be effective for annual reporting periods after December 15, 2023 and interim periods within those annual periods, and early adoption is permitted in annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2020. We are still assessing the impact of ASU 2020-06 on our consolidated financial statements.

On March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting. This ASU provides temporary optional guidance to ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform. The new guidance provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying GAAP to contract modifications and hedging relationships, subject to meeting certain criteria, that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued. This ASU is intended to help stakeholders during the global market-wide reference rate transition period and will be in effect for a limited time through December 31, 2022. Adoption is permitted at any time. The Company is currently evaluating the impact on its financial statements.

On March 9, 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-03, "Codification Improvements to Financial Instruments." This ASU was issued to clarify and improve various financial instruments topics. The guidance has various effective dates but is basically effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted ASU 2020-03 effective January 1, 2020 and concluded there was no material impact to the consolidated financial statements.

In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes. This guidance will be effective for entities for the fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2020 on a prospective basis, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt the new standard effective March 1, 2021 and do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurement by removing, modifying and adding certain disclosures. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted ASU 2018-13 effective January 1, 2020 and concluded there was no material impact to the consolidated financial statements.

In November 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No.2016-18, Restricted Cash that requires companies, in the Statement of Cash Flows, to explain the changes during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. Consequently, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the Statement of Cash Flows. For the period ended December 31, 2021, the Company has recorded $2,125,695 as Restricted cash, $15,363,685 as Unrestricted cash, and a total of $17,489,380 as Cash, Cash equivalents and Restricted cash. For the period ended December 31, 2020, the amounts were $1,515,620 in Restricted cash and $11,748,829 in Unrestricted cash.

In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, including subsequently issued ASUs to clarify the implementation guidance in ASU 2016-13. The amendment introduces new guidance for credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost, including finance receivables and trade receivables. Under this new model, expected credit losses are based on relevant information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect collectability, replacing the previous incurred loss model. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted ASU 2016-13 effective January 1, 2020 and concluded there was no material impact to the consolidated financial statements.

Other recent accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB did not or are not believed by management to have a material impact on the Company's present or future financial statements.

Table of Contents

NOTE 2- GOING CONCERN

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States of America, which contemplate continuation of the Company as a going concern. However, the Company has limited cash and incurred significant recent losses. These factors raise substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in raising additional cash through the issuance of debt or equity instruments or return to achieving profitable operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties.

NOTE 3 - INVENTORY

Inventory consisted of the following at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020:

                                      2021        2020
Furnace parts and supplies             $           213,224     $          471,622 
Raw materials                          2,144,067   1,955,713 
Work in process                        1,671,290   2,394,481 
Finished goods and filtration systems  1,660,907   1,424,171 
Reserve for excess and obsolescence    (268,470   )            (723,949  )
Net Inventory                          $           5,421,027   $          5,522,038 
Inventory valuation adjustments for excess and obsolete inventory are calculated based on current inventory levels, movements, expected useful lives, and estimated future demand for the products. The reduction in the reserve for excess and obsolescence reflects the reuse of goods previously classified as obsolete due to shift in demand pattern from external clients.

NOTE 4-PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property and equipment consisted of the following on December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020:

                                              UsefulLife  2021      2020
Production equipment                          3           -         10          $         7,425,145 $ 8,599,728
                                              

Production equipment - finance lease          3           -         10          3,066,623 4,528,695
                                              

Lab equipment                                 3           -         10          117,770   127,560
Computer equipment                            3           -         5           1,005,223 805,001
Vehicles                                      3           -         5           90,819    115,525
Vehicles - finance lease                      3           -         5           -         -
Furniture and fixture                         5           1,166,071 1,218,386
Furniture and fixture - finance lease         5           268,208   290,505
Leasehold improvements                        5           -         10          3,273,940 3,544,256
                                              16,413,799  19,229,656
Less Accumulated Depreciation                 (7,218,468) {2}       (7,518,657) {2}
Less Accumulated Depreciation - finance lease (336,338)   {2}       (1,389,488) {2}
Net Property and Equipment                    $           8,858,993 $           10,321,511
Depreciation expense amounted to $1,945,489 and $1,857,111 for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

NOTE 5- LEASES

The Company leases certain vehicles, real property, production equipment and office equipment under lease agreements. The Company evaluates each lease to determine its appropriate classification as an operating lease or finance lease for financial reporting purposes. The majority of our operating leases are non-cancelable operating leases for production and office space in Hobro, Aarhus and Copenhagen, Denmark as well as in Taicang, China and White Bear Lake, Minnesota. As of September 1, 2021 the Company entered a new lease agreement for a 8,524.67 square meter production facility in Taicang, China. The lease term is a minimum of 8 years, and the monthly lease payment is RMB 30 per square meter until August 31, 2025 (RMB 255,740 / $ 40,918) and RMB 33.6 (RMB 286,429 / $ 45,829 ) per square meter from September 1, 2025 until the end of the lease period. The parties have agreed on a 50% discount on the lease payments for the period September 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022. The lease in White Bear Lake expired in February 2021, and due to the closure of the activity in North America, the lease has not been extended.

During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash paid for amounts included for the measurement of operating lease liabilities was $1,057,810, and the Company recorded operating lease expenses included in operating expenses of $1,135,814.

During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash paid for amounts included for the measurement of finance lease liabilities was $470,389, and the Company recorded finance lease expenses included in other income (expenses) of $265,221.

Table of Contents

Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 was as follows:

                                        December 31,2021 December 31,2020
Operating leases:
Operating lease right-of-use assets      $                6,925,807   $            4,947,734 
                                        

Operating lease liabilities - current    $                846,544     $            1,026,235 
Operating lease liabilities - long-term  6,154,064        4,159,225 
Total operating lease liabilities        $                7,000,608   $            5,185,460 
                                        

Finance leases:
Property and equipment, at cost          $                3,334,830   $            4,819,201 
Accumulated depreciation                 (336,337        )            (1,389,488  )
Property and equipment, net              $                2,998,494   $            3,429,713 
                                        

Finance lease liabilities - current      $                373,824     $            394,839 
Finance lease liabilities - long-term    2,499,591        3,112,496 
Total finance lease liabilities          $                2,873,415   $            3,507,335 
                                        

Weighted average remaining lease term:
Operating leases                         8.9              10.0 
Finance leases                           5.9              6.9 
                                        

Weighted average discount rate:
Operating leases                         6.5             %            6.2         %
Finance leases                           2.8             %            2.8         %
Maturities of lease liabilities at December 31, 2021 were as follows:

                                     Operatinglease Financelease
2022                                  $              1,220,960   $          449,480 
2023                                  1,234,435      444,777 
2024                                  1,083,993      445,735 
2025                                  794,225        442,102 
2026                                  818,507        404,679 
Thereafter                            3,828,035      976,221 
Total payment under lease agreements  8,980,155      3,162,994 
Less imputed interest                 (1,979,546    )            (289,579  )
Total lease liability                 $              7,000,608   $          2,873,415 
Table of Contents

NOTE 6 - INTANGIBLE ASSETS

At December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, consisted of customer relationships acquired in connection with the purchase of BS Plastic A/S and the cost of patent applications for the Company's products.

Intangible assets consisted of the following at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020:

                              2021       2020
Customer relationships         $          502,957   $          544,770 
Patent cost                    189,017    204,731 
                               691,974    749,501 
Less Accumulated amortization  (357,231  )          (269,441  )
Intangible assets, net         $          334,743   $          480,060 
Amortization expense amounted to $108,471 and $113,738 for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Expected future amortization expense for the years ended are as follows:

Year ending December 31, AmortizationExpenses
2022                      108,471 
2023                      108,471 
2024                      74,940 
2025                      7,880 
2026                      7,880 
Thereafter                27,101 
                          $   334,743 
NOTE 7 - LINES OF CREDIT

In connection with certain orders, we provide the customer a working guarantee, a prepayment guarantee or a security bond. For that purpose, we have a guaranteed credit line of DKK13,000,000(approximately $2,000,000). As of December 31, 2021, our bank has issued working guaranties of $643,961 for our customers based on the credit line. The credit line is secured by a cash deposit of $2,000,000.

NOTE 8- CONVERTIBLE NOTE PAYABLE

On March 24, 2021, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with an institutional investor pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell a $15.0 million principal amount Senior Convertible Note ("the Note") due on October 1, 2023 and 80,000 shares of Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $15.0 million upon the satisfaction of the closing conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement. The Closing occurred on April 8, 2021, and the Company issued to the Investor the securities in connection with the Closing.

The Note is a senior, unsecured obligation of the Company, payable at 112% of the principal amount at maturity on October 1, 2023, or earlier upon redemption or repurchase as set forth in the Note. The Note is convertible into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Note, in part or in whole, from time to time, at the election of the Investor. The initial conversion rate is 100.6749 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 of principal amount of the Note. The conversion rate is subject to anti-dilution adjustments including for stock dividends, splits and combinations; issuances of options, warrants or similar rights; spin-offs and distributions of property; cash dividends or distributions; and tender or exchange offers, in each case as further described in and pursuant to the terms of the Note.

The Company may provide written notice to the Holder electing to convert the entire Principal Amount of the Note if (1) the Daily VWAP per share of Common Stock exceeds one hundred and seventy-five percent (175%) of the Conversion Price on each of twelve (12) consecutive VWAP Trading Days beginning after September 24, 2021; and (2) the Equity Conditions are satisfied on each of such twelve (12) consecutive VWAP Trading Days.

Beginning on March 1, 2022, and on the first day of each calendar month thereafter, at the election of the Investor or Holder, if applicable, the Company shall be required to redeem $840,000 of the amounts due under the Note in cash or Common Stock at 90% of the lesser of (i) the volume-weighted average price ("VWAP") of the Common Stock on the trading day immediately preceding the payment date and (ii) the average of the lowest three (3) VWAPs over the 10 trading days immediately preceding the payment date, which shall in no case be less than the floor price of $1.75 per share.

The Note has interest payable quarterly beginning June 1, 2021 at a rate of 5% per annum. The number of shares issuable if the Company elects to pay interest in shares of Common Stock shall be based on the Market Price.

The components of the Convertible Note are as follows:

                                               December 31,2021 December 31,2020
Convertible note                                $                16,800,000   - 
Less: unamortized debt issuance costs           (2,213,064      )             - 
Convertible note payable                        $                14,586,936   $   - 
                                               

Current portion of convertible note payable     8,400,000        - 
Convertible note payable, less current portion  6,186,936        - 
Convertible note payable                        $                14,586,936   $   - 
NOTE 9 -AGREEMENTS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Agreements -- LiqTech is planning to establish a joint venture to supply and operate water treatment systems for oil and gas producers in the Middle East. The partner in the joint venture is a local company. LiqTech expects to deliver technological know-how, design of water treatment systems and components to support potential projects in the Middle East. The joint venture will be established in the form of a jointly-owned limited liability company, incorporated under the laws in the local country, and LiqTech holds 49% of the shares. All profits of the company are to be allocated proportionally to the ownership share, and none of the parties are liable for the company's liabilities towards third parties.

Contingencies -- From time to time, we may be involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business.

Table of Contents

On February 27, 2019, LiqTech was contacted by a former supplier alleging that the Company owed DKK 543,905 ($89,800) for services rendered in 2017. The claimant has previously filed a lawsuit to claim payment for the services, which was denied by the Company due to severe errors in the services rendered. The claim was settled out of court in which the Company agreed to pay DKK 400,000 ($63,575) for full and final settlement.

LiqTech is as of December 31, 2021 in an arbitration regarding a commercial dispute related to the delivery of Water treatment system installed on a commercial power plant. The parties disagree on whether the supplied equipment functions correctly including the ability to meet the agreed criteria. The dispute additionally concerns the equipment's down time and the use of additives to run the equipment. The arbitration is pending Statement of Claim and Statement of Response issued by the parties involved. LiqTech is currently disputing the claim in full and has filed a counterclaim regarding unpaid invoices. The claim against LiqTech amounts to DKK 1,671,768 ($254,796) with the addition of interest.

Product Warranties - The Company provides a standard warranty on its systems, generally for a period of oneto threeyears after customer acceptance. The Company estimates the costs that may be incurred under its standard warranty programs and records a liability for such costs at the time product revenue is recognized.

In addition, the Company sells an extended warranty for certain systems, which generally provides a warranty for up to fouryears from the date of commissioning. The specific terms and conditions of the warranties vary depending upon the product sold and the country in which the Company does business. Revenue received for the sale of extended warranty contracts is deferred and recognized in the same manner as the costs incurred to perform under the warranty contracts.

The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts, as necessary. Factors that affect the warranty liability include the number of units sold, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and the cost per claim.

Changes in the Company's current and long-term warranty obligations included in accrued expenses on the balance sheet for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:

                                             2021       2020
Balance at January 1,                         $          1,056,613   $          813,288 
Warranty costs charged to cost of goods sold  177,302    348,241 
Utilization charges against reserve           (191,068  )            (199,624  )
Foreign currency effect                       (80,534    )           94,708 
Balance at December 31,                       $          962,313     $          1,056,613 
NOTE 10 -INCOME TAXES

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires the Company to provide a net deferred tax asset or liability equal to the expected future tax benefit or expense of temporary reporting differences between book and tax accounting and any available operating loss or tax credit carryforwards. The amount of and ultimate realization of the benefits from the deferred tax assets for income tax purposes is dependent, in part, upon the tax laws in effect, the Company's future earnings, and other future events, the effects of which cannot be determined. In accordance with prevailing accounting guidance, the Company is required to recognize and disclose any income tax uncertainties. The guidance provides a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring tax benefits and liabilities when realization of the tax position is uncertain. The first step is to determine whether the tax position meets the more-likely-than-not condition for recognition and the second step is to determine the amount to be recognized based on the cumulative probability that exceeds 50%. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

As of December 31, 2021, the Company had net operating loss carry-forward of approximately $23,172,440 for U.S. federal tax purposes expiring through 2041;approximately $16,039,713 for Danish tax purposes, which do not expire; approximately $472,134 for German tax purposes, which do not expire; approximately $613,426 for Singapore tax purposes, which do not expire and approximately $118,602 for Chinese tax purposes, which expires in 2026.

As of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, the Company established a valuation allowance of $5,364,000 and $5,394,000 for the tax components of LiqTech International Inc. and Liqtech NA, respectively; $3,506,000 and $1,682,000 for the tax components of LiqTech Holding, LiqTech Ceramics, LiqTech Water, LiqTech Plastics, LiqTech Emission Control and LiqTech Water Projects, respectively, $132,000 and $143,000 for the tax components of LiqTech Germany, respectively, $104,000 and $113,000 for the tax components of LiqTech Singapore, respectively and $193,000 and $0 for LiqTech China, respectively, as management could not determine that it was more than likely not that sufficient income could be generated by these components to realize the resulting net operating loss carry-forwards and other deferred tax assets of these components. The change in the valuation allowance for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $(30,000), $1,824,000, $(11,000), $(9,000) and $193,000 for the US, Danish, German, Singapore and Chinese components, respectively. The change in the valuation allowance for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $1,549,000, $473,000, $14,000 and $11,000 for the US, Danish, German and Singapore components, respectively.

Table of Contents

The temporary differences, tax credits and carry forwards gave rise to the following deferred tax asset and liabilities at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020:

                                          2021          2020
Excess of tax over financial accounting    $             708,825    $            624,154 
Vacation accrual                           -             1,971 
Reserve for excess and obsolete inventory  49,615        151,288 
Accrued expenses                           4,305         - 
Accrued interest                           13,125        - 
Discount amortization                      175,420       - 
Deferred compensation                      52,500        49,556 
Net operating loss carryover               9,959,356     7,627,046 
Excess of book over tax depreciation       (343,294     )           (610,694    )
Excess of book over tax work in progress   (587,469     )           (817,131    )
Valuation allowance                        (10,257,162  )           (7,331,357  )
                                           $             (224,779  )             $   (305,167  )
Distributed as:
Long-term deferred tax asset               -             - 
Long-term deferred tax liability           (224,779     )           (305,167    )
                                           $             (224,779  )             $   (305,167  )
A reconciliation of income tax expense at the federal statutory rate to income tax expense at the Company's effective rate is as follows for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

                                                     2021        2020
Computed tax at expected statutory rate               $           (2,349,899  )          $   (2,157,436  )
State and local income taxes, net of federal benefit  (1,387     )             (76,055  )
Non-US income taxed at different rates                (101,856   )             (35,454  )
Deferred compensation                                 (31,500    )             (52,165  )
Non-deductible expenses                               1,565       2,243 
Non-taxable income                                    -           (75,562     )
Change in valuation allowance                         2,209,294   1,918,579 
Other                                                 210,747     10,705 
Income tax expense (benefit)                          $           (63,036     )          $   (465,145    )
The components of income tax expense (benefit) from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following:

                                   2021         2020
Current income taxes:
Danish                              $            -          $          (401,945  )
Federal                             -            - 
State                               -            - 
Current tax (benefit)               $            -          $          (401,945  )
                                   

Deferred income taxes:
Book in excess of tax depreciation  $            (309,719  )           $          (419,523  )
Work in progress                    (174,093    )           (44,862   )
Net operating loss carryover        (2,667,221  )           (389,616  )
Valuation allowance                 2,811,619    844,826 
Deferred compensation               31,500       (52,165   )
Accrued interest                    13,125       - 
Discount amortization               175,420      - 
Accrued vacation                    4,305        (16,707   )
Reserve for obsolete inventory      52,028       14,847 
Deferred tax expense (benefit)      $            (63,036   )           $          (63,200   )
Total tax expense (benefit)         $            (63,036   )           $          (465,145  )
Deferred income tax expense / (benefit) results primarily from the reversal of temporary timing differences between tax and financial statement income.

The Company files Danish, Chinese, U.S. federal and Minnesota state income tax returns. LiqTech Holding, LiqTech Ceramics, LiqTech Water, LiqTech Plastics, LiqTech Emission Control and LiqTech Water Projects are generally no longer subject to tax examinations for years prior to 2016 for their Danish tax returns. LiqTech NA is generally no longer subject to tax examinations for years prior to 2016 for U.S. federal and state tax returns.

Table of Contents

NOTE 11 -EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share is determined by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average common shares outstanding during the period. For the periods where there is a net loss, stock options, warrants and Restricted Stock Units have been excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per common share because their effect would be anti-dilutive. Consequently, the weighted average common shares used to calculate both basic and diluted net loss per common share would be the same.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company had 149,636 stock grants outstanding to issue common stock ("RSUs"). Further, the Company had 1,015,000 prefunded warrants outstanding to issue common stock.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company had 128,299 stock grants outstanding to issue common stock ("RSUs"). Further, the Company had 515,000 prefunded warrants outstanding to issue common stock.

NOTE 12 - STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Common Stock - The Company has 100,000,000 authorized shares of common stock, $0.001 par value. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, there were 21,285,706 and 21,655,461 common shares issued and outstanding.

Voting-- Holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on each matter submitted to a vote of stockholders, including the election of directors, and do not have any right to cumulate votes in the election of directors.

Dividends-- Subject to the rights and preferences of the holders of any series of preferred stock, if any, which may at the time be outstanding, holders of common stock are entitled to receive ratably such dividends as our Board of Directors from time to time may declare out of funds legally available.

Liquidation Rights-- In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of affairs, after payment of all of our debts and liabilities and subject to the rights and preferences of the holders of any outstanding shares of any series of our preferred stock, the holders of common stock will be entitled to share ratably in the distribution of any of our remaining assets.

Other Matters-- Holders of common stock have no conversion, preemptive or other subscription rights, and there are no redemption rights or sinking fund provisions with respect to our common stock. All of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock on the date of this Annual Report are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable.

Preferred Stock-- Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock in one or more classes or series and to fix the designations, powers, preferences and rights, the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any class or series, without further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock.

The Company has 2,500,000 authorized shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020 there were no preferred shares issued and outstanding.

Table of Contents

Stock Issuances

Since January 1, 2021, the Company has made the following issuances of common stock:

On January 6, 2021, the Company issued 11,218 shares of Common Stock to settle RSUs. The RSUs were valued at $70,000 for services provided by the Board of Directors in 2020. The Company recognized the stock-based compensation of the awards over the requisite service period.

On February 26, 2021, the Company issued 30,694 shares of Common Stock to settle RSUs. The RSUs were valued at $166,667 for services provided by management in 2020. The Company recognized the stock-based compensation of the awards over the requisite service period.

On April 9, 2021, the Company issued 80,000 restricted shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement executed on March 24, 2021.

On August 17, 2021, the Company entered an exchange agreement with an existing shareholder to exchange an aggregate of 500,000 shares of common stock for prefunded warrants of equivalent value. The prefunded warrants will be exercisable at any time on or after the closing date.

On September 3, 2021, the Company issued 8,333 shares of Common Stock to settle RSUs. The RSUs were valued at $57,500 for services provided by the Board of Directors. The Company recognized the stock-based compensation of the awards over the requisite service period.

For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company has recorded stock-based compensation expense of $481,105 and $343,780, respectively.

Warrants

In connection with the securities purchase agreement entered into in May 2020, we issued a prefunded warrant ("the Warrant") to purchase an aggregate of 515,000 shares of Common Stock at a purchase price of $5.00 per share. Subject to certain beneficial ownership limitations, the Warrant is immediately exercisable and may be exercised for no additional consideration. The Warrant does not expire. A holder of the Warrant will not have the right to exercise any portion of the Warrant if the holder, together with Affiliates and Attribution Parties (as such terms are defined in the Warrant), would beneficially own in excess of 9.99% of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after giving effect to the exercise, as such percentage ownership is determined in accordance with the terms of the Warrant. Upon notice from the holder to the Company, however, the holder may decrease or increase the beneficial ownership limitation (but not above 9.99% of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding).

On August 17, 2021, the Company entered an exchange agreement with an existing shareholder to exchange an aggregate of 500,000shares of Common Stock for equivalent shares of a prefunded warrants (the "Exchange Agreement"). The prefunded warrants will be exercisable at an exercise price of $0.001 per share, subject to adjustments as provided under the terms of the prefunded warrants. The prefunded warrants will be exercisable at any time on or after the closing date. The Exchange Agreement contained additional terms typical of exchange agreements including representations and warranties of the parties. In connection with the Exchange Agreement, as of the date of the Exchange Agreement, the Company issued the prefunded warrants to the Shareholders. The exercise price of each prefunded warrant is equal to $0.001 per share, and the prefunded warrants are exercisable on or after August 17, 2021, subject to the limitations on exercise and conditions set forth by the prefunded warrants. The prefunded warrants are subject to customary adjustments in the event of stock splits and dividends, fundamental transactions, and subsequent offerings of rights to purchase stock.

The following is a summary of the periodic changes in warrants outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2021:

                                            2021
Warrants outstanding at January 1            515,000 
Common stock exchanged to prefunded warrant  500,000 
Exercises and conversions                    - 
Warrants outstanding at December 31          1,015,000 
Table of Contents

Stock-based Compensation

In 2013, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a Share Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan"). Under the terms and conditions of the Incentive Plan, the Board of Directors is empowered to grant RSUs to officers and directors of the Company. At December 31, 2021, 149,636 RSUs were granted and outstanding under the Incentive Plan. Directors of the Company receive share compensation as follows: (i) an initial grant of 25,000 RSUs of common stock that vest over a three-year period upon appointment to the Board, followed by an annual grant of $35,000 ($70,000 for the Chairman of the Board) in RSUs per annum after full vesting of the initial grant. Further, the Company has granted shares to management for 2021 as part of the Incentive Plan, totaling 52,941 shares that vest over a three-year period.

The Company recognizes compensation costs for RSU grants to Directors and management based on the stock price on the date of the grant.

The Company recognized stock-based compensation expense related to RSU grants of $481,105 and $343,780 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. On December 31, 2021, the Company had $529,259 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock grants.

A summary of the status of the RSUs outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and changes during the period are presented below:

                                       December 31, 2021
                                       Number ofunits WeightedAverageGrant-DateFair value AggregatedIntrinsicValue
                                       

Outstanding, December 31, 2020          128,299        $                                   5.79   $   283,541 
Granted                                 71,582         7.51                               -
Vested and settled with share issuance  (50,245       )                                    5.85  -
Forfeited                              -
Outstanding, December 31, 2021          149,636        $                                   6.59 
Table of Contents

NOTE 13- SEGMENT REPORTING

The Company operates in three segments: Water, Ceramics and Plastics. Effective as of January 1, 2020, the group structure was changed so that shared group activities were transferred to an individual reporting unit separated from the business units. Costs and assets for these activities were therefore separated during 2020.

Segment information for the business areas is as follows:

                           For the Year Ended December 31,
Revenues                   2021        2020
Water                       $           7,196,465    $   13,615,904 
Ceramics                    7,183,868   5,663,830 
Plastics                    3,615,681   2,647,366 
Other                       277,428     599,101 
Total consolidated revenue  $           18,273,442   $   22,526,201 
                                 For the Year Ended December 31,
Income (Loss)                    2021         2020
Water                             $            (1,411,196   )             $   (1,083,578  )
Ceramics                          (3,330,840  )              (3,532,137  )
Plastics                          (1,317,293  )              (882,038    )
Other                             (5,067,631  )              (4,310,607  )
Total consolidated Income (Loss)  $            (11,126,960  )             $   (9,808,360  )
                          For the Year Ended December 31,
Total assets              2021         2020
Water                      $            7,767,679    $   14,033,107 
Ceramics                   13,961,057   16,734,371 
Plastics                   1,645,879    2,022,381 
Other                      21,680,077   9,420,278 
Total consolidated assets  $            45,054,692   $   42,210,137 
Table of Contents

NOTE 14 -SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS / CONCENTRATION

The following table presents customers accounting for 10% or more of the Company's net sales:

           For the Year Ended December 31,
           2021 2020
Customer A  12  % -    %
Customer B  10  %  10  %
Customer C  -   %  27  %
* Zero or less than 10%

The following table presents customers accounting for 10% or more of the Company's accounts receivable:

           December 31,2021 December 31,2020
Customer A  16              %  -   %
Customer B  -               %  12  %
Customer D  11              %  -   %
Customer E  -               %  39  %
Customer F  -               %  16  %
As of December 31, 2021, approximately 100% of the Company's assets were located in Denmark. As of December 31, 2020 approximately 100% of the Company's assets were located in Denmark.

NOTE 15 -SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On January 3, 2022, the Company issued 18,641 common shares to settle RSUs. The RSUs were valued at $140,000 for services provided by the Board of Directors in 2021. The Company recognized the stock-based compensation of the award over the requisite service period.

On January 3, 2022, the Company issued 48,341 common shares to settle RSUs. The RSUs were valued at $283,605 for services provided by management in 2021. The Company is recognizing the stock-based compensation of the award over the requisite service period.

On March 18, 2022, the Company announced that Sune Mathiesen, Chief Executive Officer, has taken a medical leave of absence. Alexander J. Buehler, who is currently serving as a member of the Board of Directors, has been appointed to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Buehler has served as a Director of LiqTech since 2017, during which time he has also served as the Audit Committee Chairman.

Table of Contents

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures (pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) and (c) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. A weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a misstatement of the registrant's financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.

There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.

Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2021 were not effective due to material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, described below

Notwithstanding this finding, we concluded that the consolidated financial statements included in this Report present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company was not subject to requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As such, our independent registered public accounting firm was not required to, and thus did not, audit our internal control structure.

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.

Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act as a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the audited consolidated financial statements.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company's management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021 based on the criteria set forth in the Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commissions (2013).

Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2021 were not effective due to material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting.

Table of Contents

The implementation of the new ERP system from the beginning of 2020 and through 2021, together with implementation of additional internal control procedures, have strengthened the Company´s internal control environment. From the report received from the Company´s external auditor as a result of the audit of 2019, we have focused on improving controls to address each reported deficiency; however, the prolonged impact of COVID-19 restrictions has slowed the pace of progress significantly.

Management's Remediation Initiatives

In response to the identified material weaknesses, our management, with oversight from the Company's Audit Committee, has been and will continue to dedicate necessary resources to enhance the Company's internal control over financial reporting and remediate the identified material weaknesses. As an example of such remediation, the Company in 2021 hired additional employees into the finance department, and we plan to continue to work on remediating the material weaknesses during 2022 by improving competencies and processes. Further, the implementation of the new ERP system has prioritized in addition to other supporting IT programs to help support the controls and processes of the Company, and these investments are an important part of the remediation of the material weaknesses. Lastly, the Company has started the process of redesigning and ensuring documentation of all processes and procedures related to the financial reporting process to ensure the effective design and operation of process-level controls.

While management believes that the steps that we have taken and plan to take will improve the overall system of internal control over financial reporting and will remediate identified material weaknesses, the material weaknesses cannot be considered remediated until the applicable relevant controls operate for a sufficient period of time.

Following identification of the material weakness and prior to filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we completed substantive procedures for the year ended December 31, 2021. Based on these procedures, management believes that our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our CEO and CFO have certified that, based on their knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this Form 10-K, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods presented in this Form 10-K.

Limitations on the Effectiveness of Internal Controls

An internal control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

While management believes that the steps that we have taken and plan to continue to take will improve the overall system of internal control over financial reporting and will remediate identified material weaknesses, the material weaknesses cannot be considered remediated until the applicable relevant controls operate for a sufficient period of time.

Item 9B.

Other Information

None

Item 9C.

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

Not applicable.

Table of Contents

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Set forth below is information concerning our directors and senior executive officers as of March 24, 2022.

Name              Age Titles
Mark Vernon       69  Chairman of the Board
Sune Mathiesen    47  Chief Executive Officer, Director
Simon Stadil      38  Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
Alexander Buehler 46  Director, Interim Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
Peyton Boswell    51  Director
Rich Meeusen      67  Director
According to our bylaws, the number of directors at any one time may not be less than one or more than seven. The maximum number of directors at any one time may be increased by a vote of a majority of the directors then serving.

Our charter provides for the annual election of directors. At each annual meeting of stockholders, our directors will be elected for a one-year term and serve until their respective successors have been elected and qualified. It is anticipated that the Board of Directors will meet at least quarterly.

Executive officers are appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. A brief biography of each director and executive officer follows:

Mark Vernon. Mr. Vernon has served as a Director of LiqTech International, Inc. since February 26, 2013 and as Chairman of the Board of Directors since July 2, 2018. Mr. Vernon also currently serves as a Director of Neles Oyj, a Finland-based industrial process valve company. Mr. Vernon served nine years as a Director of Senior plc, a UK-based aerospace and industrial engineering business. Mr. Vernon has had a long career in the industrial engineering industry and has wide international business experience. Mr. Vernon previously served as Chief Executive Officer and Director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc (London Stock Exchange: SPX), an industrial engineering business for industrial steam systems and peristaltic pumps. He also served previously as Group Vice President of Flowserve's Flow Control Business, Group Vice President of Durco International and President of Valtek International. Mr. Vernon earned a BSc degree (magna cum laude) from Weber State University.

Sune Mathiesen. Mr. Mathiesen has served as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of LiqTech International since July 29, 2014. Mr. Mathiesen has served as Chief Executive Officer concurrent with LiqTech as a Director of Masu A/S, a Danish company, since February 2013. He previously served as CEO and Director of Provital Solutions A/S. Before that he served as Country Manager of Broen Lab Group and as Country Manager of GPA Flowsystem. Mr. Mathiesen has a distinguished background in executive management, sales and turnarounds. Mr. Mathiesen has been working hands-on with technical products within the valves and fittings industry for the past 20 years. He has a degree in commercial science from Via College in Randers, Denmark.

Alexander Buehler. Mr. Buehler has served as a Director since August 11, 2017 and currently serves as Interim Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Buehler most recently served as the President & CEO of the Brock Group, a leading industrial services provider to multiple industries, including petrochemical, oil & gas refining, power, pharmaceutical, and LNG. Before Brock, Mr. Buehler served as the Executive Vice President of Global Resources for Intertek, a publicly traded company headquartered in London providing quality assurances services across multiple industries. Mr. Buehler previously served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Energy Maintenance Services and prior to that as Chief Financial Officer of Energy Recovery, Inc. Mr. Buehler also serves on the Board of Energy Recovery and also as Audit Committee Chairman, and he has previously served on the Board of Viscount Systems, also as Audit Committee Chairman. Mr. Buehler previously served in executive leadership positions at Insituform Technologies, Inc., and he worked for five years in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. He received a B.S. in Civil Engineering from the United States Military Academy at West Point and an MBA in Finance from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.

Peyton Boswell. Mr. Boswell has served as a Director since August 11, 2017. Mr. Boswell has served as the Chief Executive Officer of EnterSolar, LLC, a provider of commercial solar photovoltaic solutions, since 2010. Before joining EnterSolar, Mr. Boswell led solar development activities for Fortistar and was the founder of RenewCo V.I., a renewable energy development firm based in the U.S. Virgin Islands. Prior to entering the solar industry, Mr. Boswell was a finance and investment banking professional for 15 years with J.P. Morgan and Bank of America. Mr. Boswell is a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) and has earned a BA from Cornell University and holds an MBA from Columbia Business School.

Table of Contents

Richard Meeusen. Mr. Meeusen has served as a Director since August 26, 2020 and currently serves as the Audit and Compensation Committee Chairman. Mr. Meeusen most recently served as President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of Badger Meter, Inc., a publicly traded international manufacturer and seller of flow measurement equipment, primarily to the water industry. Mr. Meeusen retired as Chief Executive Officer on December 31, 2018 after serving 17 years as the company's Chief Executive Officer and, before that, 7 years as its Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Badger Meter, Mr. Meeusen was Chief Financial Officer of Zenith Sintered Products and before that worked for Arthur Andersen & Co as a Senior Manager. In addition to his board service at Badger Meter, Mr. Meeusen serves as a director of Menasha Corporation, a $2 billion privately-held packaging and display equipment company and previously served 8 years on the board of Serigraph Corporation. Mr. Meeusen founded The Water Council in 2007, a 180-member company industry trade group where he still serves as a director. Mr. Meeusen earned an MBA degree from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University.

Simon Stadil. Mr. Stadil has served as Chief Financial Officer of LiqTech International, Inc. since November 15, 2021.

From 2013 to 2021 Mr. Stadil served as the Director of Treasury & Investor Relations of Welltec, Regional CFO Americas and Africa, and most recently as Vice President of Global Finance. Additionally, Mr. Stadil served as Assistant Funding Manager within the Danish renewable & utility company Ørsted, as well as Assistant Vice President within the Nordic Investment Banking Division at Barclays Capital in London. Mr. Stadil holds a MSc. in Business Economics and Finance (Cand.Merc.FIR) from Copenhagen Business School.

Director Expertise

The following is a brief description of the specific experience and qualifications, attributes or skills of each director that led to the conclusion that such person should serve as a director of the Company.

Mr. Vernon's extensive global experience in the industrial engineering industry provides the Board with valuable insight in the markets the Company serves, as well as proven management and public company Board expertise.

Mr. Buehler's experience in general management and strategic planning as well as new product development, corporate development, mergers & acquisitions, operations management, manufacturing process optimization, sales management, and back-office administration provides the Board with valuable perspective across all corporate functions and relevant industries. Mr. Buehler has substantial experience in the global water, oil & gas, and manufacturing industries. Mr. Buehler has been determined by our Board to be an Audit Committee Financial Expert.

Mr. Boswell's experience in establishing and growing a successful renewable energy clean tech business and prior experience in investment banking provides the Board with a unique perspective on corporate finance and strategic growth matters. Further, the Board has determined that he qualifies as an Audit Committee Financial Expert.

Mr. Meeusen's prior experience in finance, operations, marketing and sales along with his leadership experience as a director of a publicly traded company and his long executive management responsibility in the water industry and in developing technology growth business distinguishes him as an integral part of the Company's Board.

Mr. Mathiesen's prior experience at leading businesses as the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of companies in the technical products space distinguishes him as an integral part of the Company's management team. He is uniquely qualified to provide a perspective on matters involving the continued growth and development of the Company.

Family Relationships

None of our Directors or executive officers is related by blood, marriage or adoption.

Director Independence

Our Board of Directors has determined that Messrs. Vernon, Buehler, Boswell and Meeusen are independent as that term is defined in the listing standards of the NASDAQ. In making these determinations, our Board of Directors has concluded that none of our independent directors has an employment, business, family or other relationship, which, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director. We expect that our independent directors will meet in executive session (without the participation of executive officers or other non-independent directors) at least two times each year.

Table of Contents

Director Attendance at Board and Stockholder Meetings

The Board of Directors met formally sixteen times during 2021. During 2021, each director attended at least 75% of the meetings of the Board and the committees upon which he serves. We do not have a policy regarding director attendance at our annual meetings of stockholders.

Committees of our Board of Directors

Committee Composition

Our Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, and a Governance and Nominating Committee. The following table sets forth the current membership of each of these committees:

Audit Committee Compensation Committee Governance & Nominating Committee
Richard Meeusen* Richard Meeusen * Mark Vernon * 
Mark Vernon     Peyton Boswell         Richard Meeusen
Peyton Boswell  Mark Vernon            Peyton Boswell
* Chairman of the committee

Audit Committee

Our Audit Committee consists of Richard Meeusen (Chair), Mark Vernon and Peyton Boswell, each of whom is an independent director as defined in the NASDAQ and SEC rules. Based upon past employment experience in finance and other business experience requiring accounting knowledge and financial sophistication, our Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Buehler is an "Audit Committee Financial Expert" as defined in Item 407(d)(5) of Regulation S-K, and that each member of our Audit Committee is able to read and understand fundamental financial statements. We have implemented a written charter for our Audit Committee that provides that our Audit Committee is responsible for:

 ● appointing, compensating, retaining, overseeing and terminating our independent auditors and pre-approving all audit and non-audit services permitted to be performed by the independent auditors;
 ● discussing with management and the independent auditors our annual audited financial statements, our internal control over financial reporting, and related matters;
 ● reviewing and approving any related party transactions;
 ● meeting separately, periodically, with management, the internal auditors and the independent auditors;
 ● annually reviewing and reassessing the adequacy of our Audit Committee charter;
 ● such other matters that are specifically delegated to our Audit Committee by our Board of Directors from time to time; and
 ● reporting regularly to the Board of Directors.
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, the Audit Committee met four times.

Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors

The Audit Committee has reviewed and discussed the audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 with our management. The Audit Committee has discussed with the Company's independent registered public accounting firm the matters required to be discussed by Auditing Standard No. 1301, Communications with Audit Committees, as adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the "PCAOB"). The Audit Committee has also received the written disclosures and the letter from the independent registered public accounting firm required by applicable requirements of the PCAOB regarding the independent accountants' communications with the Audit Committee concerning independence, and has discussed with the independent registered public accounting firm the accounting firm's independence. Based on the foregoing, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the audited financial statements be included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Richard Meeusen
Mark Vernon
Peyton Boswell
Table of Contents

Compensation Committee

Our Compensation Committee consists of Richard Meeusen (Chair), Mark Vernon and Peyton Boswell, each of whom is an independent director as defined in the NASDAQ rules, a "non-employee director" under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, and an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code. We have implemented a written charter for our Compensation Committee that provides that our Compensation Committee is responsible for:

 ● reviewing and making recommendations to our Board of Directors regarding our compensation policies and forms of compensation provided to our directors and officers;
 ● reviewing and making recommendations to our Board of Directors regarding bonuses for our officers and other employees;
 ● reviewing and making recommendations to our Board of Directors regarding stock-based compensation for our directors and officers;
 ● administering our stock option plans in accordance with the terms thereof; and
 ● such other matters that are specifically delegated to the Compensation Committee by our Board of Directors after the business combination from time to time.
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, the Compensation Committee met three times.

Governance and Nominating Committee

Our Governance and Nominating Committee consists of Mark Vernon (Chair), Peyton Boswell and Richard Meeusen, each of whom is an independent director as defined in the NASDAQ rules. We have implemented a written charter for our Governance and Nominating Committee that provides that our Governance and Nominating Committee is responsible for:

 ● overseeing the process by which individuals may be nominated to our Board of Directors;
 ● identifying potential directors and making recommendations as to the size, functions and composition of our Board of Directors and its committees;
 ● considering nominees proposed by our stockholders;
 ● establishing and periodically assessing the criteria for the selection of potential directors;
 ● making recommendations to the Board of Directors on new candidates for Board membership; and
 ● overseeing corporate governance matters.
In making nominations, the Governance and Nominating Committee intends to submit candidates who have high personal and professional integrity, who have demonstrated exceptional ability and judgment and who are effective, in conjunction with the other nominees to the Board of Directors, in collectively serving the long-term interests of the stockholders. In evaluating nominees, the Governance and Nominating Committee intends to take into consideration attributes such as leadership, independence, interpersonal skills, financial acumen, business experiences, industry knowledge, and diversity of viewpoints.

During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, the Governance and Nominating Committee met one time.

Table of Contents

Legal Proceedings Involving Officers and Directors

To the knowledge of the Company after reasonable inquiry, no current director or executive officer of the Company during the past ten years, has (i) been convicted in a criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations or other minor offenses), (ii) been a party to any judicial or administrative proceeding (except for any matters that were dismissed without sanction or settlement) that resulted in a judgment, decree or final order enjoining the person from future violations of, or prohibiting activities subject to, U.S. federal or state securities laws, or a finding of any violation of U.S. federal or state securities laws, (iii) filed a petition under federal bankruptcy laws or any state insolvency laws or has had a receiver appointed for the person's property or (iv) been subject to any judgment, decree or final order enjoining, suspending or otherwise limiting for more than 60 days, the person from engaging in any type of business practice, acting as a futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, floor broker, leverage transaction merchant, any other person regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or an associated person of any of the foregoing, or as an investment adviser, underwriter, broker or dealer in securities, or as an affiliated person, director or employee of any investment company, bank, savings and loan association or insurance company, or engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with such activity or engaging in any activity in connection with the purchase or sale of any security or commodity or in connection with any violation of Federal or State securities laws or Federal commodities laws, (v) been found by a court of competent jurisdiction in a civil action or by the Commission to have violated any Federal or State securities law, and the judgment in such civil action or finding by the Commission has not been subsequently reversed, suspended, or vacated, (vi) been found by a court of competent jurisdiction in a civil action or by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to have violated any Federal commodities law, and the judgment in such civil action or finding by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has not been subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, (vii) been the subject of, or a party to, any Federal or State judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, or finding, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, relating to an alleged violation of: (a) any Federal or State securities or commodities law or regulation, (b) any law or regulation respecting financial institutions or insurance companies including, but not limited to, a temporary or permanent injunction, order of disgorgement or restitution, civil money penalty or temporary or permanent cease-and-desist order, or removal or prohibition order, or (c) any law or regulation prohibiting mail or wire fraud or fraud in connection with any business entity, or (viii) been the subject of, or a party to, any sanction or order, not subsequently reversed, suspended or vacated, of any self-regulatory organization (as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26))), any registered entity (as defined in Section 1(a)(29) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1(a)(29)), or any equivalent exchange, association, entity or organization that has disciplinary authority over its members or persons associated with a member.

Code of Ethics

We adopted a code of conduct and ethics on January 1, 2012. The code of ethics has been posted on the Company's website under the Investor Relations tab.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires a company's officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent (10%) of a registered class of a company's equity securities, to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership with the SEC. Officers, directors, and greater than ten percent (10%) stockholders are required by SEC regulations to furnish the Company with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file.

To our knowledge, based solely on a review of the copies of such reports furnished to us, we believe that all reports under Section 16(a) required to be filed by its officers and directors were timely filed.

Table of Contents

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Summary Compensation Table

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to compensation for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 earned by or paid to our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officers.

Summary Compensation Table

Name and PrincipalPosition Year Salary($)(1) Bonus($)  StockAwards($) OptionAwards($) NonequityIncentive PlanCompensation NonqualifiedDeferredCompensationEarnings Other($)(4) Total
Sune Mathiesen, Chief Executive Officer (2)
                           2021  $            365,787   $              100,000         $                                   397,587                                  $           36,655   $   900,029 
                           2020  $            358,875   $              100,000         $                                   350,000                                  $           35,888   $   844,763 
                           

Claus Toftegaard, Chief Financial Officer (3)
                           2021  $            253,995   $              25,453          $                                   279,448 
                           2020  $            249,162   $              150,000         $                                   24,916                                   $           424,078 
                           

Simon Stadil, Chief Financial Officer (5)
                           2021  $            259,099   $              25,909          $                                   285,008 
(1)

Total salaries for Messrs. Mathiesen and Toftegaard for 2020 are reported on an as-converted basis from Danish Krone (DKK) to U.S. dollars ($) based on the currency exchange rate of $1.00 = DKK 6.5343, as of December 31, 2020. Total salaries for Messrs. Mathiesen, Toftegaard and Stadil for 2021 are reported on an as-converted basis from Danish Krone (DKK) to U.S. dollars ($) based on the currency exchange rate of $1.00 = DKK 6.5612, as of December 31, 2021. We do not make any representation that the Danish Krone amounts could have been, or could be, converted into U.S. dollars at such rate on December 31, 2020 or December 31, 2021, or at any other rate.

(2)

Mr. Mathiesen became our Chief Executive Officer in August 2014. Pursuant to his employment agreement, Mr. Mathiesen is entitled to an annual base salary of approximately $365,787 based on the currency exchange rate of $1.00 = DKK 6.5612, as of December 31, 2021.

(3)

Mr. Toftegaard became our Chief Financial Officer in August 2018. Pursuant to his employment agreement, Mr. Toftegaard is entitled to an annual base salary of approximately $253,995 based on the currency exchange rate of $1.00 = DKK 6.5612, as of December 31, 2021. Mr. Toftegaard changed role to Project Director, effective November 23, 2021

(4)

Pursuant to Mr. Mathiesen's employment agreement, Mr. Mathiesen's received $36,655 and $35,888 of contributions from the Company to his individual retirement account in 2021 and 2020. Pursuant to Mr. Toftegaard's employment agreement, Mr. Toftegaard received $25,453 and $24,916 of contributions from the Company to his retirement account in 2021 and 2020.

(5)

Mr. Stadil became our Chief Financial Officer in November 2021. Pursuant to his employment agreement, Mr. Stadil is entitled to an annual base salary of approximately $259,099 based on the currency exchange rate of $1.00 = DKK 6.5612, as of December 31, 2021.

Employment Arrangements

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we had employment agreements with Messrs. Mathiesen and Toftegaard. A description of each agreement is set forth below.

Mathiesen Agreement

Effective July 30, 2014 the Company's Board of Directors appointed Mr. Sune Mathiesen to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and as a Director of the Company pursuant to a Director Contract, dated July 15, 2014 (updated on October 15, 2018), by and between Mr. Mathiesen and LiqTech Holding (the "Director Agreement"). The Director Agreement provided as of December 31, 2021 for an annual base salary set at DKK 2,400,000 (or approximately $365,787 based on the currency exchange rate of $1 = DKK 6.5612 as of December 31, 2021) and an annual cash bonus of 100% - 150% of the Director's annual salary if certain performance targets are met, as determined annually by the Company's Compensation Committee. Mr. Mathiesen is entitled to five weeks of vacation, home internet service, a company car or equivalent taxable allowance, a LiqTech Holding mobile phone, a LiqTech Holding laptop and reimbursement of LiqTech Holding-related travel expenses. LiqTech Holding may terminate the Mathiesen Agreement upon not less than twelve months prior notice, and Mr. Mathiesen may terminate the Mathiesen Agreement with twelve months prior notice.

Table of Contents

Toftegaard Agreement

On August 15, 2018 Mr. Claus Toftegaard was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Pursuant to the terms of a CFO Contract, in consideration for his services, Mr. Toftegaard shall receive an annual base salary of DKK 1,666,512 (or approximately $253,995 based on the currency exchange rate of $1 = DKK 6.5612 as of December 31, 2021). Mr. Toftegaard is entitled to six weeks of vacation, home internet service, a company car, a LiqTech Holding mobile phone, a LiqTech Holding laptop and reimbursement of LiqTech Holding-related travel expenses. LiqTech Holding may terminate the Toftegaard Agreement upon not less than five months prior notice and Mr. Toftegaard may terminate with five months prior notice.

Stadil Agreement

On November 23, 2021, Mr. Simon Stadil was appointed to serve as Chief Financial officer of the company. Pursuant to the terms of his executive services contract, in consideration for his services, Mr. Stadil will receive a base salary of DKK 1,700,000 (or approximately $260,000 based on the currency exchange rate of $1 = DKK 6.5612 as of December 31, 2021) and be eligible for a discretionary annual performance bonus of up to approximately $128,000. Also in connection with his appointment, Mr. Stadil will receive restricted stock unit awards with an aggregate grant date fair value of approximately $128,000. Mr. Stadil is entitled to six weeks of vacation, home internet service, a company car, a mobile phone, laptop and reimbursement of travel expenses. LiqTech may terminate the Stadil Agreement upon not less than five months prior notice and Mr. Stadil may terminate the Stadil Agreement with three months prior notice.

Outstanding Equity Awards at Last Fiscal Year End

The following table sets forth all outstanding equity awards held by named executive officers as of December 31, 2021.

Option Awards

Stock Awards

Name

Number of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Exercisable

(#)

Number of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Unexercisable

(#)

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

No. of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Unearned

Options

Option

Exercise

Price

Option

Expiration

Date

Number

of Shares

or Units

of Stock

That

Have

Not

Vested

Market

Value of

Shares

or Units

of Stock

That

Have Not

Vested

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Number

of

Unearned

Shares,

Units, or

Other

Rights

That

Have Not

Vested

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Market

or

Payout

Value of

Unearned

Shares,

Units, or

Other

Rights

That

Have

Not

Vested

Sune Mathiesen, CEO

- - - $ - - 95,912 $ 548,619 - -

Claus Toftegaard, CFO

- - - $ - - 18,416 $ 105,340 - -

Simon Stadil, CFO

- - - $ - - - - - -

Compensation of Directors

For 2021 the Chairman of the Board was entitled to an annual fee of $60,000; each non-executive director was entitled to $30,000 for services on the Board of Directors; the Audit Committee Chairman was paid an additional annual fee of $10,000 per year, the Compensation Committee Chairman was paid an additional annual fee of $6,000 (however, when Mr. Vernon has served as the Chairman of the Compensation Committee after being appointed Chairman of the Board, he was not paid this additional fee). The Chairman of the Board also receives an automatic annual stock grant in the amount of $70,000 on January 2 each year. Each qualifying non-executive director would receive an automatic annual stock grant on January 2 of each year in the amount of $35,000 commencing the first year after full vesting of their initial 25,000 share stock grant that vests over a three-year period. The Company, has not entered any agreements with the Directors of any special compensation in relation to retirement, resignation, change of control or other kinds of events that might lead to the Director leaving the Board of LiqTech International, Inc.

Table of Contents

The following table provides information regarding compensation that was earned or paid to the individuals who served as non-employee directors during the year ended December 31, 2021.

Name              Feesearnedorpaid incash(1)($) StockAwards(2)($) Optionawards(2) Non-equityincentiveplancompensation Non-qualifieddeferredcompensationearnings All othercompensation Total
Mark Vernon        60,000                        70,000            -               -                                   -                                         -                     130,000 
Alexander Buehler  40,000                        35,000            -               -                                   -                                         -                     75,000 
Peyton Boswell     30,000                        35,000            -               -                                   -                                         -                     65,000 
Richard Meeusen    30,000                        0                 -               -                                   -                                         -                     30,000 
(1)

Our independent directors are entitled to cash compensation of $30,000 per year, the chairman of our Board is entitled to additional $30,000 per year, the chairman of our Audit Committee is entitled to additional $10,000 per year and the chairman of our Compensation Committee is entitled to additional $6,000 per year.

(2)

These amounts represent the aggregate grant date fair value for stock awards granted in 2021, computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718. As such, these amounts do not correspond to the compensation actually realized by each director for the period.

The Company issued in January 2021 11,218 shares of restricted stock valued at $70,000 for services provided and to be provided by Mr. Vernon. Mr. Vernon shall provide general work as member of the Board of Directors and other services, which are mutually agreeable by both parties on an ad hoc basis.

The Company issued in September 2021 8,333 shares of restricted stock valued at $57,500 for services provided and to be provided by Mr. Meeusen. Mr. Meeusen shall provide general work as member of the Board of Directors and other services, which are mutually agreeable by both parties on an ad hoc basis

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The following table sets forth, as of March 24, 2022, certain information regarding the beneficial ownership of our common stock, the only class of capital stock we have currently outstanding, of (i) each director and "named executive officers" (as defined in the section titled "Executive Compensation - Summary Compensation Table") individually, (ii) our Chief Financial officer, (iii) all directors and executive officers as a group, and (iv) each person known to us who is known to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of our common stock. In accordance with the rules of the SEC, "beneficial ownership" includes voting or investment power with respect to securities. To our knowledge, except as indicated in the footnotes to this table and pursuant to applicable community property laws, the persons named in the table have sole voting and investment power with respect to all shares of common stock beneficially owned by them.

Table of Contents

Name of Beneficial Owner(1)                                 Shares ofCommon StockBeneficiallyOwned (2) Percentage ofCommon StockBeneficiallyOwned (3)
Directors and NEOs
Sune Mathiesen (4)                                           389,096                                    1.8   %
Mark Vernon                                                  210,511                                    * 
Alexander Buehler                                            25,000                                     * 
Peyton Boswell                                               52,500                                     * 
Richard Meeusen                                              11,333                                     * 
Simon Stadil                                                 0                                          * 
All executive officers and directors as a group (7 persons) 688,440                                    3.2    %
                                                            

5% Shareholders:
Laurence W. Lytton                                           2,209,974                                  10.4  %
Bleichroeder LP                                              2,175,948                                  10.2  %
AWM Investment Company, Inc.                                 1,978,444                                  9.3   %
Clear Harbour Asset Management                               1,564,501                                  7.4   %
* Less than one percent.

(1)

Unless otherwise indicated, the address for each person listed above is: c/o LiqTech Holding A/S, Industriparken 22C, DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark.

(2)

Under the rules and regulations of the SEC, beneficial ownership includes (i) shares actually owned, (ii) shares underlying preferred stock, options and warrants that are currently exercisable and (iii) shares underlying options and warrants that are exercisable within 60 days of March 24, 2022. All shares beneficially owned by a particular person under clauses (ii) and (iii) of the previous sentence are deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the percentage ownership of that person but are not deemed outstanding for the purpose of computing the percentage ownership of any other person.

(3)

Based on 21,352,688 shares issued and outstanding as of March 24, 2022.

(4)

These shares are partly owned by Masu A/S, a Danish entity. Mr. Mathiesen controls the voting and disposition of the shares owned by Masu A/S

We know of no arrangements, including pledges, by or among any of the forgoing persons, the operation of which could result in a change of control of us.

The following table provides information, as of December 31, 2021, regarding the number of shares of Company common stock that may be issued from outstanding stock options.

Table of Contents

Plan Category                                              Number ofsecuritiesto be issued uponexercise ofoutstandingoptions,warrants andrights Weighted averageexercise price ofoutstandingoptions,warrants andrights Number ofsecuritiesremainingavailablefor future issuanceunder equitycompensationplans
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:     -                                                                                    -                                                                      - 
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders  -                                                                                    $                                                                      -   1,987,113   (1) 
Total                                                       -                                                                                    1,987,113                                                              (1) 
(1) On August 21, 2013, the Company's Board of Directors adopted the 2013 LiqTech International, Inc. Share Incentive Plan (the "2013 Plan"). The 2013 Plan authorized awards that equal to 10% of the total outstanding shares of Common Stock on an as-converted basis as of August 21, 2013, (612,788 shares of Common Stock), plus an increase of that number of shares of Common Stock to be added on each of the third, sixth and ninth anniversary of the 2013 Plan's effectiveness. Accordingly, on August 21, 2019, 2,054,767 shares of Common Stock became authorized under the 2013 Plan. Pursuant to the terms of 2013 Plan, if any award thereunder terminates, expires, or lapses for any reason, any shares subject to such award shall again be available for the grant of an Award pursuant to the 2013 Plan. The number of securities remaining available for future issuance accounts for 149,636 shares of Common Stock issued as "Restricted Share Units," which were not forfeited prior to vesting.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Transactions with Related Persons

The following discussion relates to types of transactions involving the Company and any of our executive officers, directors, director nominees or five percent stockholders, each of whom we refer to as a "related party." For purposes of this discussion, a "related-party transaction" is a transaction, arrangement, or relationship:

●

in which we participate;

●

that involves an amount in excess of the lesser of $120,000 or 1% of the average of our total assets at year-end for the last two completed fiscal years; and

●

in which a related party has a direct or indirect material interest.

From January 1, 2022 through the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there have been no related-party transactions, except for the executive officer and director compensation arrangements described in the section "Executive Compensation" and as described below.

Policies and Procedures for Related Party Transactions

Any request for us to enter into a transaction with an executive officer, director, principal stockholder, or any of such persons' immediate family members or affiliates, in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000, or 1% of the average of our total assets at year-end for the last two completed fiscal years, must first be presented to our audit committee for review, consideration and approval. All of our directors, executive officers and employees will be required to report to our audit committee any such related party transaction. In approving or rejecting the proposed agreement, our audit committee will consider the relevant facts and circumstances available and deemed relevant to the audit committee, including, but not limited to, the risks, costs and benefits to us, the terms of the transaction, the availability of other sources for comparable services or products, and, if applicable, the impact on a director's independence. Our audit committee will approve only those agreements that, in light of known circumstances, are in, or are not inconsistent with, our best interests, as our audit committee determines in the good faith exercise of its discretion.

Table of Contents

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Audit and Audit-Related Fees

The aggregate fees billed or expected to be billed by our independent auditors for the audit of our annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 and for the review of our quarterly financial statements were $164,000 and $152,500, respectively. Our auditors did not provide any tax compliance, planning services, audit-related services, or other services for the Company other than those described above.

Audit Committee Pre-approval

The policy of the Audit Committee is to pre-approve all audit and non-audit services provided by the independent accountants. These services may include audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services. Pre-approval is generally provided for up to one year and any pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or category of services. The Audit Committee has delegated pre-approval authority to certain committee members when expedition of services is necessary. The independent accountants and management are required to periodically report to the full Audit Committee regarding the extent of services provided by the independent accountants in accordance with this pre-approval delegation, and the fees for the services performed to date. The Audit Committee approved all of the services described above in this Item 14 in advance during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.

Table of Contents

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)Financial Statements and Schedules

The financial statements are set forth under Item 8 of this Annual Report. The following financial statement schedule for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

a. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.

                               2021      2020
Bad debt expense                (28,499   )   320,270 
Reserve for obsolete inventory  162,651   266,021 
                                     BalanceBeginningof Year Charges toCosts andExpenses Deductions(1) BalanceEnd ofYear
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Allowance for inventory obsolescence  $                       723,949                     $             162,651   $   (618,129  )  $   268,470 
Allowance for doubtful accounts       498,044                 (28,499                    )              (60,469  )    409,076 
Totals                                $                       1,221,993                   $             134,152   $   (678,598  )  $   677,546 
                                     

Year Ended December 31, 2020
Allowance for inventory obsolescence  $                       665,308                     $             266,021   $   (207,380  )  $   723,949 
Allowance for doubtful accounts       612,434                 320,270                     (434,660     )          498,044 
Totals                                $                       1,277,742                   $             586,291   $   (642,040  )  $   1,221,993 
                                                               2021      2020
Allowance for doubtful accounts at the beginning of the period  $         498,044   $          612,434 
Bad debt expense                                                (28,499  )          320,270 
Receivables written off during the periods                      (24,415  )          (484,265  )
Effect of currency translation                                  (36,054  )          49,605 
Allowance for doubtful accounts at the end of the period        $         409,076   $          498,044 
(1) Includes write-offs, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.

Schedules other than that listed above are omitted because the conditions requiring their filing do not exist or because the required information is provided in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the Notes thereto. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included.

Table of Contents

(b)Exhibits

Exhibit

No.

Description

Location

3.1

Articles of Incorporation, as amended as of May 21, 2021

Filed herewith

3.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774912005057/ex3-4.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC on May 15, 2012

4.1

Form of Pre-Funded Warrant[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774920012277/ex_188600.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on June 2, 2020

4.2

Form of Amendment to Pre-Funded Warrant[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774920023254/ex_212896.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC on November 9, 2020

4.3

Certificate of Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock of LiqTech International, Inc.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1307579/000143774917019362/ex_100499.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC on November 14, 2017

4.4

Description of our Common Stock[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774921007884/ex_234371.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on March 30, 2020

4.5

Form of Pre-Funded Common Stock Purchase Warrant[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774921020619/ex_277673.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on August 20, 2021

10.1

Lease Agreement for Industriparken 22C, 2750 Ballerup, Denmark[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000107878211003292/f8ka2111111_ex10z6.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K/A as filed with the SEC on November 15, 2011 (translated in English)

10.2* Director Contract, dated October 15, 2018, by and between LiqTech International A/S and Sune Mathiesen[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774919006256/ex_139020.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on April 1, 2019

Table of Contents

10.3

Form of Securities Purchase Agreement, by and among the Company and the purchasers named therein[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774920012277/ex_188601.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on June 2, 2020

10.4

Form of Registration Rights Agreement, by and among the Company and the investors named therein[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774920012277/ex_188602.htm]

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on June 2, 2020

10.5

Lease Contract for Benshoej Industrivej 24, 9500 Hobro[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774919023936/ex_166676.htm]

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on December 5, 2019

10.6

Securities Purchase Agreement, by and among the Company and HT Investments MA, LC[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774921007685/ex_238057.htm]

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on March 30, 2021

10.7

Form of Senior Convertible Note due 2023[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774921007685/ex_238058.htm]

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on March 30, 2021

10.8

Form of Exchange Agreement[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774921020619/ex_277674.htm]

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on August 20, 2021

10.9

Lease Agreement for the China Premises[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774921022791/ex_287029.htm]

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on September 28, 2021

10.10* Executive Services Agreement by and between LiqTech Holding A/S and Simon Stadil[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774921027570/ex_311670.htm]

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on November 30, 2021

10.11* LiqTech International, Inc. 2013 Share Incentive Plan[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001307579/000143774914001075/ex99-1.htm]

Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form S-8 as filed with the SEC on January 27, 2014

10.12* Interim CEO Agreement by and between LiqTech International Inc. and Alexander J. Buehler[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1307969/000168316820000541/o2pharma_8k.htm] Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K/A as filed with the SEC on March 28, 2022

21.1

List of Subsidiaries

Filed herewith

23.1

Consent of Sadler, Gibb

Filed herewith

31.1

Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Filed herewith

31.2

Certifications of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Filed herewith

32.1

Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002

Furnished herewith

32.2

Certification Pursuant To 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant To Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002

Furnished herewith

101. INS

Inline XBRL Instance Document (the Instance Document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document)

Provided herewith

101. CAL

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Link base Document

Provided herewith

101. DEF

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Link base Document

Provided herewith

101. LAB

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Label Link base Document

Provided herewith

101. PRE

Inline XBRL Extension Presentation Link base Document

Provided herewith

101. SCH

Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Scheme Document

Provided herewith

104

Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101).

Provided herewith

* Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

Table of Contents

Item 16.

Form 10-K Summary

Not Applicable.

Table of Contents

SIGNATURES

In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

 LIQTECH INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Date: March 30, 2022
 By: /s/Alexander Buehler
 Alexander BuehlerInterim Chief Executive Officer, PrincipalExecutive Officer and Director
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on the dates indicated.

Signatures            Title                                                                       Date
                      

/s/ Mark Vernon       Chairman of the Board of Directors                                          March 30, 2022
Mark Vernon
                      

                      

/s/ Simon Stadil      Chief Financial Officer, Principal Financial and Accounting Officer         March 30, 2022
Simon Stadil
                      

                      

/s/ Alexander Buehler  Interim Chief Executive Officer, Principal Executive Officer and Director  March 30, 2022
Alexander Buehler
                      

                      

/s/ Peyton Boswell    Director                                                                    March 30, 2022
Peyton Boswell
                      

                      

/s/ Richard Meeusen   Director                                                                    March 30, 2022
Richard Meeusen
* Original Link[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1307579/0001437749-22-007742-index.html]

Disclaimer

LiqTech International Inc. published this content on 31 March 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 31 March 2022 12:59:48 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 SAEXC00020220331ei3v002h3


EMEA Morning Briefing: Fed Rate Signals to Weigh on Mood
2051 字
2022 年 4 月 7 日 04:14 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

EU Retail Sales; Germany Industrial Production; ECB Minutes of Mar 9-10 Meeting; updates from Deutsche Telekom , Vinci, Ferrovial , Adecco , Nestle , Swiss Re , Repsol , Telecom Italia , Bang & Olufsen, Compass, SAS, Aker Solutions , Nokia , Entain , Finnair

Opening Call:

Europe is primed for a cautious opening session after the latest Fed minutes confirmed views the central bank may tighten policy aggressively over the coming months. In Asia, shares were lower; the dollar was flat and Treasury yields eased back from three-year highs. Oil and metals were slightly firmer.

Equities:

European shares face further weakness Thursday after U.S. tech stocks sunk and bonds sold off following the latest Fed minutes.

The Federal Reserve raised interest rates in March for the first time since 2018. Minutes from that meeting showed that central-bank officials last month considered raising rates by a half-percentage point but decided on a quarter-point increase in light of the uncertainty surrounding Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"Many participants noted that one or more [half-percentage-point] increases in the target range could be appropriate at future meetings, particularly if inflation pressures remained elevated or intensified," the minutes said.

Aidan Whitehead, head of equity trading at JMP Securities said Wednesday's selloff was "massive de-risking" as money managers raise cash in a highly uncertain global economy. "The uncertainty is driving the volatility, and there's so much of it, particularly when it comes to rates."

The Fed minutes also revealed that policy makers tentatively plan to reduce the central bank's balance sheet by about $95 billion per month, starting as soon as May, and that officials could eventually resort to selling off mortgage-backed securities on the Fed's balance sheet.

Forex:

The dollar was little changed while the yen strengthened, with the Asia session facing some downward pressure as market participants continued to digest rate increases and the balance sheet run-off in upcoming FOMC meetings, IG said.

Navellier & Associates said: "It's very unfortunate that interest rates are rising like they are. This is going to strengthen the dollar long term. The Fed cannot fight the market. So if market rates go up, the Fed has to catch up with them."

The money manager said 50 basis-point rate increases may be normal until the Fed is in sync with market rates and that "we're probably going to get some inflation relief in the fall."

---

The euro could extend its recent losses even if Emmanuel Macron wins the presidential election, BMO Capital Markets said.

As of late Wednesday, the EUR/USD was about 1.1% lower in the week-to-date but the bulk of the move doesn't reflect worries about Macron's shrinking lead in opinion polls.

"Rather, the main focus for the FX market is still the war, and the increasing likelihood of EU energy-related sanctions which are currently being proposed by Brussels," BMO said.

There are enough euro-negative factors at play to send EUR/USD to 1.08 in one month from 1.0914 currently, even with a Macron victory. A shock win by Marine Le Pen Marine Le Pen would cause an even sharper EUR/USD fall, BMO said.

Bonds:

The 10-year Treasury yield eased back below 2.6%, having climbed to another three-year high Wednesday after the Fed minutes.

"The market was bracing itself for something a little more hawkish," said David Petrosinelli, senior trader at InspereX in New York. "There had been some talk around $100 billion or higher in monthly bond runoffs."

As a result of the minutes, the market was calmed by the idea that policy makers are "not going to take a hammer to the market," Petrosinelli said.

Read: Treasury Yields Extend Climb Into Fourth Session.

Also Read: Russia, U.S. Face-Off Boosts Default Risk.

Energy:

Oil recovered some of its Wednesday losses in early Asian trading and ANZ Research said rices remain supported as the IEA warned of a large drop in Russian exports that could leave the global crude market short of 3 million barrels a day.

"Restrictions on Russian oil exports appear to be tightening. The likelihood of Iranian oil helping fill the gap is also diminishing," ANZ said.

Read: U.S. Allies to Release Close to 60 Million Barrels of Oil From Reserves.

Metals:

Gold edged higher, supported by likely technical buying despite headwinds of expected Fed rate rises.

"Gold's pain of aggressive monetary tightening is almost fully priced in, " OANDA said. However, an "aggressive hawkish Fed could tentatively send gold below the $1,900 level."

OANDA said gold will "eventually become attractive once traders start to debate whether the Fed will choose to continue to fight inflation after a couple of super-sized rate hikes or tap on the brakes as growth concerns brew."

---

Copper was higher with prices supported by a tight supply outlook.

"Global inventories [are] at critically low levels," Fitch said. Production is also likely lackluster, with only "small increases in output [which] will be driven by Chinese production while Latin American production will continue to lag."

Fitch , which raised its average 2022 copper-price forecast to $10,000 a ton from $9,200 a ton previously, said that "China's zero Covid policy is likely to invoke uncertainty in the country's copper production outlook."

Fitch also said nickel prices on the LME could consolidate in the $30,000-$40,000 a ton range in the second quarter as Western sanctions on Russia support prices. Fitch expects prices to drop to under $30,000 a ton by year's end amid weaker consumption growth in the medium term.

Fitch raised its 2022 average forecast to $27,500 a ton from $17,000 a ton, which compares with $18,466 in 2021. "Ultimately, Western sanctions on Russia mean that the supply outlook for nickel over the coming years has deteriorated."

Other News:

The lithium-mining industry is likely to gravitate closer to spot pricing, especially if the commodity's rally continues, UBS said.

Today, there is a big difference between spot prices and the average price miners receive, in large part because a greater proportion of sales are often locked in early at a fixed price. For comparison, UBS highlighted the iron-ore market, where evolving market dynamics eventually made the difference between spot and fixed prices unworkable.

Now, some lithium producers are also signaling a shift away from fixed prices, which are less common among new entrants than incumbent suppliers. "Overall, this should see a further narrowing between industry realization and the spot price."

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Fed Signals Faster Pace of Rate Increases, Likely Bond Runoff

Federal Reserve officials signaled they could raise rates by a half-percentage point at their meeting early next month and begin reducing their $9 trillion asset portfolio as part of their most aggressive effort in more than two decades to curb price pressures.

Minutes from the Fed's March 15-16 meeting, released Wednesday, showed that many officials last month were prepared to raise rates by a half-point but opted for a smaller, quarter-point increase because of concern over the fallout from Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

   
 
 
U.S. Allies to Release Close to 60 Million Barrels of Oil From Reserves

PARIS-U.S. allies are planning to release close to 60 million additional barrels of oil from their reserves, officials familiar with the matter said, joining the Biden administration in an effort to tame prices after they rose sharply when Russia invaded Ukraine.

The 31-member nations of the International Energy Agency -which include the U.S., most of Europe, Australia, Japan, Mexico and others-are planning to announce a new reserve release totaling 120 million barrels, officials said, the largest release in the IEA 's 47-year history. Around half of that amount will come from U.S. reserves, which were included in Washington's previously announced decision to release 180 million barrels of oil over six months.

   
 
 
Russia, U.S. Face-Off Boosts Default Risk

The derivatives market is flashing signals that the tit-for-tat between the U.S. Treasury and the Kremlin is increasing the likelihood of a Russian government default after Russia's Ministry of Finance announced Wednesday it will restrict the ability of some foreign investors to convert their payments into dollars.

The cost of buying a five-year derivatives contract for protection against a Russian government default, also called a credit-default swap, jumped on Wednesday to around 75% of the total value of the debt insured, according to data from ICE Data Services.

   
 
 
Regulatory Uncertainty Is a Barrier for Wider Bitcoin Adoption

MIAMI BEACH, Fla.-Uncertainty about how cryptocurrency regulation will roll out in the future, particularly in the U.S., remains a significant barrier for wider adoption of digital assets such as bitcoin, said panelists Wednesday at one of the largest bitcoin conferences of the year.

But speakers at the Bitcoin 2022 conference in Miami Beach, Fla., were optimistic that more policy makers and regulators were seeking to better understand the technology and to support innovation in the sector.

   
 
 
Europe Keeps Russian Oil, Gas Flowing Despite Tightening Sanctions

Six weeks after Russia invaded Ukraine, the European Union is taking its first steps to reduce Russian energy imports, depriving Moscow of some of the revenue that covers much of its budget and helps fund its military campaign.

But the EU can't agree to sanction the bloc's biggest business dealings with Russia: the purchase of oil and natural gas. The EU, which imports around 60% of its energy needs, is making large payments to Russia, boosted by higher oil-and-gas prices during the war.

   
 
 
Ukraine Urges Civilians to Flee Looming Russian Offensive in Eastern Regions

7 Apr 2022 00:14 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Fed Rate Signals to Weigh -2-

Ukraine urged civilians to leave the eastern Donetsk, Luhansk and parts of the Kharkiv regions as it braced for a major new Russian offensive following Moscow's withdrawal from the north of the country.

"You need to evacuate now, while this possibility still exists," Ukraine's deputy prime minister and minister for occupied territories, Iryna Vereshchuk , said on Ukrainian TV on Wednesday. "Later, people will be under fire and under threat of death. We won't be able to help because it will be practically impossible to cease fire."

   
 
 
Elon Musk Stirs Twitter Interest as Social-Media Platform Hunts Growth

Twitter Inc .'s move to add uberuser Elon Musk to its board gives the social-media company a new weapon to deploy in its hunt for user and revenue growth.

Twitter , after a fight with activist Elliott Management Corp ., said a little over a year ago that it would work to at least double its revenue to $7.5 billion by the end of 2023, and reach at least 315 million so-called monetizable daily active users at that time.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Thursday

04:30/NED: Mar CPI

05:45/SWI: Mar Unemployment

06:00/NOR: Feb Industrial Production Index

06:00/GER: Feb Industrial Production Index

06:00/UK: Mar Halifax House Price Index

06:00/UK: 1Q Halifax House Price Index: UK Regional Breakdown quarterly release

07:00/AUT: Mar Wholesale Price Index

07:00/SWI: Mar SNB foreign currency reserves

07:00/HUN: Feb Preliminary External Trade

08:00/ICE: Mar External trade, preliminary figures

09:00/CYP: Mar CPI

09:00/GRE: Feb External Trade (provisional data)

09:00/EU: Feb Retail trade

10:00/IRL: Feb Industrial Production and Turnover

10:00/IRL: Mar CPI

23:01/UK: Mar BRC-Sensormatic IQ Footfall Monitor

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

April 07, 2022 00:14 ET (04:14 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220407ei4700028


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Open Lower, Bonds Extend Selloff
2574 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日 04:44 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

OECD Composite Leading Indicators; updates from Repsol .

Opening Call:

European stocks are likely to open lower to start the week. U.S. stock futures were pointing lower while treasury yields continue to rise. The dollar rose in early Asian trading. Oil was down in early Asian trade due to the possibility that China's Covid-19 lockdowns will crimp demand. Gold prices were steady.

Equities:

European stocks are set to open lower as uncertainty about Federal Reserve policy and the war in Ukraine pushed the S&P 500 to a weekly loss and stoked a selloff in the government bond market.

Investors remained preoccupied with commentary from Fed officials as well as the minutes from the central bank's March policy meeting, Those minutes showed that policy makers had considered raising interest rates and unwinding its balance sheet faster, driving stocks lower.

Later Monday, Fed Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans discusses his outlook for the economy, employment, inflation, and interest rates at the Detroit Economic Club.

Meanwhile, Ukraine and Russia poured reinforcements into eastern Ukraine this weekend, preparing for what are likely to become the war's biggest battles as refugees continued to flee the looming Russian assault.

Russia's main objective now is to seize the parts of the eastern Donbas region not yet controlled by Moscow. Unlike the first phase of the six-week-old conflict, that shift is forcing Ukraine into fighting conventional battles involving tanks, artillery and aircraft on flat, often barren terrain that allows Russia to leverage its superiority in military equipment.

Forex:

The dollar rose in early Asian trading. The U.S. dollar rose across the board last week as the Fed's hawkish message on quantitative tightening, renewed sanction risks in Europe and the far-right French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen 's gains in the polls put pressure on risk sentiment, especially in Europe, Capital Economics' Jonathan Goltermann said in a note.

Looking ahead to Thursday's ECB policy announcement, the senior markets economist doesn't see a change to policy settings or forward guidance, but policymakers are worrying more about inflation and Goltermann thinks they'll end asset purchases and increase rates in July. That'll provide only limited support at best for the euro, Goltermann said.

---

The euro could rise against the dollar this year and early next year as the ECB raises interest rates but this appreciation won't last, Commerzbank said.

The ECB is likely to start raising rates in the third quarter of 2022 and take its deposit rate to positive territory in early 2023, Commerzbank 's Ulrich Leuchtmann said in a research note.

However, later in 2023 the ECB could pause its rate hike cycle due to falling inflation while the Federal Reserve could raise rates further than expected, which may weaken EUR/USD, he said. Commerzbank expects EUR/USD to rise to 1.15 by March 2023 from 1.0878 currently, before falling to 1.12 by December 2023.

---

Most Asian currencies weaken against the dollar on lingering worry over aggressive Fed tightening. USD likely faces further upside risks this week, as investors continue to brace for a sharper reduction in the Fed's balance sheet, MUFG Bank analysts Sophia Ng and Karman Li said in a note.

Most Asia ex-Japan currencies except PHP and IDR weakened against USD last week, mainly because of USD strength driven by hawkish Fed rhetoric, the analysts said.

Bonds:

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to from 2.776% on Friday.

Treasury yields carved out another round of three-year highs on Friday, with the 2-year rate posting its biggest five-week gain in more than a decade, as investors continued to assess the Federal Reserve 's likely policy path.

"The recent inversion at the longer end of the yield curve will not deter the Fed from continuing along a more aggressive pathway to higher rates to rein in `too high' inflation," said Stifel Chief Economist Lindsey Piegza and Economic Analyst Lauren Henderson.

"In fact, monetary policy officials have been clear they are willing to tighten as much as needed, even at the risk of deliberately choking off domestic growth," they said in a note.

Energy:

Oil fell in early Asian trade due to the possibility that China's Covid-19 lockdowns will crimp demand. Crude oil prices could weaken by another 3.0%-5.0% if there seems no end in sight for China's pandemic lockdowns, said Oanda senior market analyst Edward Moya .

WTI crude oil should find decent support at the mid-$90s/bbl level, but continued USD strength could keep commodities vulnerable to further falls, Oanda said.

Metals:

Gold prices were steady in the early Asian session, with the precious metal likely to remain in a tight trading range, analysts said. Gold has been moving in a tight range lately, but could face pressure as USD strengthens amid surging bond yields, CMC Markets analyst Tina Teng said in a research note.

---

Aluminum fell in the morning Asian session amid continuing concerns over China's Covid-19 lockdowns. However, these concerns are being offset by worries of supply disruptions from Russia, ANZ Research said in a report, noting news that United Co. Rusal lost access to a key source of aluminum.

Last week, Rio Tinto said it took full control of Queensland Alumina, one of Australia's largest alumina refineries, in which Russia's Rusal has a 20% stake. The three-month LME aluminum contract was 1.0% lower at $3,340.00 a ton.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

China's Consumer Prices Grew at Fastest Pace in Three Months in March

BEIJING-China's consumer prices grew at their fastest pace in three months in March as domestic supply-chain disruptions caused by stringent Covid-19 control measures, together with rising energy prices, pushed up the inflation, official data showed Monday.

China's consumer-price index increased 1.5% from a year earlier last month, up from 0.9% in February and higher than the 1.2% increase forecast by economists polled by The Wall Street Journal.

   
 
 
Ukraine, Russia Gear Up for War's Biggest Battles

Ukraine and Russia poured reinforcements into eastern Ukraine this weekend, preparing for what are likely to become the war's biggest battles as refugees continued to flee the looming Russian assault.

Russia's main objective now is to seize the parts of the eastern Donbas region not yet controlled by Moscow. Unlike the first phase of the six-week-old conflict, that shift is forcing Ukraine into fighting conventional battles involving tanks, artillery and aircraft on flat, often barren terrain that allows Russia to leverage its superiority in military equipment.

   
 
 
Economy Week Ahead: Inflation, Retail Sales, Consumer Sentiment

Tuesday brings the latest inflation reading.

Tuesday

   
 
 
Bank Deposits Could Drop for First Time Since World War II

U.S. banks have a streak of increasing deposits as a group every year since at least World War II. This year could break it.

Over the past two months, bank analysts have slashed their expectations for deposit levels at the biggest banks. The 24 institutions that make up the benchmark KBW Nasdaq Bank Index are now expected to see a 6% decline in deposits this year. Those 24 banks account for nearly 60% of what was $19 trillion in deposits in December, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp .

   
 
 
European Countries Debate How to Cut Purchases of Russian Oil

European governments, having decided last week to phase out purchases of coal from Russia, are set to begin a debate this week about a more ambitious target: weaning themselves off Russian oil.

European Union officials in Brussels are seeking to make oil the focus of the bloc's next set of economic measures against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

   
 
 
Ukraine's Economy to Shrink by 45% Because of War, World Bank Says

The war in Ukraine and the resulting sanctions on Russia are taking a toll on the global economy, and will have a devastating economic impact on Ukraine itself, according to an update released by the World Bank on Sunday.

Ukraine's economy is expected to shrink by 45.1% this year, the bank said, though the depth of the decline may vary depending on the duration of the war. "The Russian invasion is delivering a massive blow to Ukraine's economy and it has inflicted enormous damage to infrastructure, " said Anna Bjerde, World Bank vice president for the Europe and Central Asia region, in a release.

   
 
 
Recession Risk Is Rising, Economists Say

Economists see a growing risk of recession as the relentlessly strong U.S. economy whips up inflation, likely bringing a heavy-handed response from the Federal Reserve .

Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal this month on average put the probability of the economy being in recession sometime in the next 12 months at 28%, up from 18% in January and just 13% a year ago.

   
 
 
Why Stocks Are Rallying in the Midst of a War and Soaring Inflation

Investors are confronting one of the most uncertain periods of their lifetimes. Stocks are rallying anyway.

The S&P 500 has rebounded 7.6% from its 2022 low on March 8, cutting its losses for the year to about 6%-roughly half of what they were weeks ago. In many ways, investors say, the rebound has been as broad as it has been impressive, lifting everything from travel stocks to utilities to unprofitable technology companies.

   
 
 
Russia's Rusal Disagrees With Rio Tinto Alumina Refinery Step-In

United Co. Rusal said that it disagrees with Rio Tinto PLC taking full control of Queensland Alumina Ltd ., one of Australia's largest alumina refineries in which the Russian company has a 20% stake, and that talks with its partner about management of the operation are continuing.

11 Apr 2022 00:44 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Open Lower, -2-

Rio Tinto , the world's second-largest miner by market value, last week said it had taken on "100% of the capacity and governance" of the QAL refinery after sanctions from the Australian government aimed at gumming up Russia's mammoth aluminum industry.

   
 
 
Ukraine's Economy to Shrink by 45% Because of War, World Bank Says

The war in Ukraine and the resulting sanctions on Russia are taking a toll on the global economy, and will have a devastating economic impact on Ukraine itself, according to an update released by the World Bank on Sunday.

Ukraine's economy is expected to shrink by 45.1% this year, the bank said, though the depth of the decline may vary depending on the duration of the war. "The Russian invasion is delivering a massive blow to Ukraine's economy and it has inflicted enormous damage to infrastructure, " said Anna Bjerde, World Bank vice president for the Europe and Central Asia region, in a release.

   
 
 
Israel's 'War Between the Wars' With Iran Expands Across Middle East

TEL AVIV-The Israeli military says it has carried out more than 400 airstrikes in Syria and other parts of the Middle East since 2017 as part of a wide-ranging campaign targeting Iran and its allies, offering its fullest picture yet of its undeclared war with Tehran.

Israeli leaders refer to the campaign as the "war between the wars," which they say is aimed at deterring Iran and weakening Tehran's ability to hit Israel in the event of an open war between the two regional adversaries.

   
 
 
France's Macron and Far-Right Le Pen Lead in First Round of Presidential Election

PARIS-President Emmanuel Macron and far-right leader Marine Le Pen led the first round of France's presidential election, according to projections, setting the stage for a closely contested runoff amid public frustration over high-inflation and immigration.

Mr. Macron garnered 28.2% of the estimated vote ahead of Ms. Le Pen with 22.9%. The two will now face off in an April 24 rematch of the 2017 election that will test whether Mr. Macron can rekindle the coalition of disaffected socialists and conservatives that fueled his landslide victory five years ago.

   
 
 
Citigroup Claws Its Way Back Into Saudi Arabia

RIYADH, Saudi Arabia-When Citigroup Inc . shut down operations in Saudi Arabia after Sept. 11, 2001, government officials here felt betrayed. For years after, the Saudis snubbed Citi as executives realized they had made a mistake and tried to rebuild their business.

Two decades later, the third-biggest U.S. bank has again found favor in the kingdom as one of the foreign lenders helping Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman modernize its oil-heavy economy.

   
 
 
Elon Musk Reverses Decision to Join Twitter 's Board, CEO Says

Twitter Inc . CEO Parag Agrawal on Sunday night tweeted that billionaire Elon Musk has decided he will no longer join the company's board of directors.

The reversal comes after Mr. Musk spent a weekend tweeting criticism about the social-media company.

   
 
 
China's Auto Sales Drop More than 10% as Covid Restrictions Hit

China's car sales fell more than 10% in March, as car makers grappled with extended manufacturing halts and the country's strict Covid-19 lockdowns disrupted supply chains.

Passenger-car sales dropped 10.5% year over year in March to 1.58 million vehicles, as the shutdowns in cities affected auto production and consumer purchases, the China Passenger Car Association said Monday. Quarterly sales were also affected, falling 4.5% from a year earlier to 4.92 million vehicles, the association said.

   
 
 
Cnooc to Raise at Least $4.4 Billion in Shanghai Offer

One of China's biggest oil companies, Cnooc Ltd ., plans to raise $4.41 billion from a Shanghai listing, after its shares were delisted from the New York Stock Exchange.

The state-owned company is selling a total of 2.6 billion shares for 10.80 yuan (US$1.70) a share, it said Monday.

   
 
 
Write to sarka.halas@wsj.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Monday

04:30/NED: Feb International trade

06:00/DEN: Feb External trade (provisional figures)

06:00/DEN: Feb Balance of payments (provisional figures)

06:00/NOR: Mar PPI

06:00/NOR: Mar CPI

06:00/ROM: Feb International trade

06:00/DEN: Mar CPI

06:00/UK: Feb UK trade

06:00/UK: Feb Index of Production

06:00/UK: Feb Index of services

06:00/UK: Feb Monthly GDP estimates

07:00/SVK: Feb Industrial production

07:00/TUR: Feb Employment / Unemployment

07:00/TUR: Feb Balance of Payments

07:00/CZE: Mar CPI

07:00/CZE: Feb Import & export price indices

09:00/MLT: Feb International Trade

09:00/CYP: Feb Foreign Trade (provisional)

10:00/FRA: Feb OECD Composite Leading Indicators

11:30/UK: Mar NIESR Monthly GDP Tracker

23:01/UK: Mar BRC-KPMG Retail Sales Monitor

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

April 11, 2022 00:44 ET (04:44 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220411ei4b00052


1ST LEAD French finance minister calls for European import ban on Russian oil By Michael Evers and Steffen Trumpf, dpa
459 字
2022 年 4 月 19 日 14:03 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Paris/Copenhagen (dpa) - French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire spoke out on Tuesday for a European import ban on Russian oil, a further sanction for Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, but said other countries still needed convincing.

President Emmanuel Macron's government has always called for a ban on imports of Russian oil, in addition to the already imposed coal embargo, Le Maire told French broadcaster Europe 1 on Tuesday.

Russian President Vladimir Putin's primary source of foreign currency for several years has been not gas, but oil, Le Maire said. The oil embargo would have been in place long ago if it weren't for the hesitancy of some governments, he added, without naming names. 

In the wake of Russia's invasion of its neighbour, the European Union, along with other Western allies, imposed unprecedented punitive measures on Moscow, including a coal import ban.

So far, due to high European dependence, gas and oil were left off the sanctions list, but debate on an immediate import ban rages on.

Germany and other countries have so far shied away for fear of economic damage. The country's chemical industry, for example, has pointed to its high consumption of oil and gas, and warned of massive consequences for value chains in case of plant outages. Around 95% of all industrial products require chemical products.

The European Commission has pledged to massively reduce the bloc's dependency on Russian fossil fuels in the coming years, partly with alternative suppliers and partly with more sustainable sources or energy savings.

A large quantity of Russian natural gas is set to be replaced with liquefied natural gas from the United States and Qatar, for example.

Denmark said Tuesday it would speed up its own reduction in Russian fuel consumption by having more homes use heating systems with sustainable energy sources.

All homeowners whose heating systems run off gas or oil are to be told in writing whether they are eligible to join district heating schemes, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen told journalists in Copenhagen.

District heating schemes are centrally controlled systems for geographic areas that are easier to run on alternative fuels. They are also more energy efficient than individual household boilers, but can be expensive or technically difficult to set up.

At present, around 55% of the total living space in the country uses district heating, compared to 27% using gas or oil to warm their homes and water.

# Notebook

## Note to editors - Retops with Le Maire comments, background in grafs 1-5, removes Denmark from slugs

## Internet links - [Danish statistics on heating](http://dpaq.de/Jq8uB[http://dpaq.de/Jq8uB]) - [Climate ministry](http://dpaq.de/WrYWb[http://dpaq.de/WrYWb])

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220419ei4j007k9


EMEA Morning Briefing: Fed, China Covid Fears to Hit Shares Again
2776 字
2022 年 4 月 25 日 04:18 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Eurozone Construction output; Germany Ifo Index; UK BOE Asset Purchase Facility Quarterly Report, CBI Industrial Trends Survey; updates from Vivendi , Deutsche Boerse, Bollore, Roche, TotalEnergies , Generali, Philips, ING, Hikma Pharmaceuticals

Opening Call:

Fed hawkishness and Covid-related lockdowns in China will combine to weigh on European stocks. In Asia, most major benchmarks were at least 2% lower; the dollar continued its ascent; Treasury yields and gold dipped; and oil prices fell around 3%.

Equities:

The slide in European stocks is likely to continue Monday, as investors grapple with a likely aggressive Fed rate path and lockdown fears in China.

Losses in Asian markets were heavy following Wall Street's biggest one-day drop since 2020, with the Dow finishing nearly 1,000 points lower on Friday.

"It would seem investors have been too complacent about the upcoming [Fed] meeting, which will need to change," said Michael Kramer, founder of Mott Capital.

The Cboe Volatility Index VIX, +24.38%, an options-based measure of expected volatility over the next 30 days, had been too low heading into the May 3-4 FOMC meeting, Kramer said. It rose Thursday and was up another 19.5% at 27.1- on Friday, moving above its long-term average just below 20.

Economic Insight--S&P on the U.K., Italy and Greece:

S&P said it expects U.K. GDP growth of 3.5% this year, below its previous forecast of 4.6% made in December of last year.

"Upward price pressures, aggravated by the fallout from Russia's military intervention against Ukraine, are driving real incomes lower," S&P said. The U.K. is a net energy importer, and exposed to the conflict's impact on oil and gas prices, according to S&P.

It affirmed its 'AA/A-1+'sovereign credit ratings on the U.K with a stable outlook.

---

S&P revised down Italy's GDP growth projection for 2022 to 3.1% from 4.4%.

"The Russia-Ukraine conflict poses a risk to Italy's open industrialized economy via trade, supply chains, oil and gas prices, and confidence effects."

Even as inflation hit 30-year highs in Italy, S&P said it believes "the government's ongoing delivery of key structural and fiscal reforms will boost long-term potential growth and, ultimately, benefit Italy's public finances."

S&P affirmed its unsolicited 'BBB' long-term and 'A-2' short-term foreign and local currency sovereign credit ratings on Italy, with a positive outlook.

---

S&P upgraded its long-term sovereign credit rating on Greece to BB+ from BB with a stable outlook.

S&P said the upgrade reflects it expectation of continuous improvement in Greece's policy effectiveness. Fallout from the war in Ukraine appears manageable, with S&P adding that the war is the key driver of its projection Greek GDP growth will slow to 3.4% in 2022, from 8.3% last year.

Inflation was 8% in March, a 27-year high, but there is no evidence so far of upward pressure on wages, according to S&P. It affirmed Greece's short-term rating at B.

Forex:

The dollar added to gains in Asia as worries about U.S. rate rises continued to hit sentiment.

Capital Economics' Jonathan Petersen said the equities selloff is behind the recent appreciation this time around. "The dollar is in a 'heads I win, tails you lose' situation. Either U.S. yields rise further and widening yield gaps help the dollar, or risk appetite worsens on worries about the economic outlook and that drives dollar strength."

The yen also strengthened on the possibility of foreign-exchange intervention.

U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and Japan Finance Minister Shunichi Suzuki discussed a potential coordinated yen-buying intervention at a meeting in Washington, major Japanese broadcaster TBS reported Friday, citing an unnamed Japanese source. The tone on the U.S. side was one of "positive consideration," said Stephen Innes, managing partner at SPI Asset Management.

Capital Economics' Jonas Goltermann said diverging interest rates will keep the yen weak and drive the USD/JPY to 140 by the end of this year "before dropping back as the Fed takes its foot off the gas in 2023."

Goltermann said the yen has depreciated around 10% against the dollar since early March, mainly because the BOJ "has stuck to its ultra-loose policy stance," while the Fed is aggressively tightening.

Japan's terms of trade "have also worsened significantly on account of the surge in commodity prices," Goltermann said, warning that the BOJ is under pressure to change its policy, which could support the yen.

Read: Yen's Drop Raises Potential for Broader Market Trouble.

---

The euro could rise toward $1.15 from $1.0805 currently if the European Central Bank raises interest rates by more than market expectations to tame inflation, Unicredit Research said.

The ECB could raise its deposit facility rate 100 basis points above the 1.5% peak that is priced in by markets over a two-year horizon, Unicredit forex strategist Roberto Mialich said. That could prompt the forex market to favor more pronounced EUR/USD long positioning, or bets on the pair price rising.

"The intensity of the EUR rally would also depend on the extent to which high inflation also affects the U.S. economy, possibly forcing the Federal Reserve to deliver even more tightening than that already priced in."

Bonds:

Treasury yields edged lower early Monday, with bonds in demand and as investors position for a tighter Fed policy.

Traders continued to assess comments made by Fed policy makers, with Cleveland's Loretta Mester saying Friday that she backed a 50 basis point hike in May "and a few more" to get the fed funds rate target to 2.5% by year-end.

Mester also the central bank wants tighter financial conditions, "but not necessarily all at once," and that "we don't need to go" to a 75 basis point hike.

Piper Sandler 's Roberto Perli said the [recent] rise in yields signaled that inflation expectations could get out of control and become a headache for the Fed. "History has shown that every time the Fed has to raise rates aggressively, growth suffers. The risk of recession five to six quarters ahead is high."

Energy:

Crude futures were down almost 3% in Asia, with China's Covid outbreak and expectations for aggressive interest-rate increases by the Fed continuing to dull prospects for energy demand.

China has placed movement controls on parts of Beijing after new virus cases were found, triggering fears of lower demand if mobility trends worsen, ING commodities strategists Warren Patterson and Wenyu Yao said.

"The Covid situation in China appears to be moving in the wrong direction with Beijing seeing a spike in cases over the weekend. China's zero-Covid policy means that oil demand will be taking a hit as authorities try to bring the outbreak under control."

The outlook for oil demand is uncertain given that on the one hand, there's a potential GDP slowdown due to rising interest rates and on the other hand, there's potential demand destruction due to high energy prices, Manish Raj, chief financial officer at Velandera Energy Partners, told MarketWatch.

Developments relating to Russia's invasion of Ukraine will remain in focus, as the current situation addes pressure on the EU to sanction Russian oil, ANZ said. Meanwhile, the U.S. has recently announced fresh sanctions on Russia by banning entry of Russian ships to the U.S. ports.

Oil prices settled lower Friday, contributing to a more than 4% loss for the week.

Metals:

Gold prices extended losses, with Fed policy and China the main factors weighing on sentiment.

OANDA analyst Jeffrey Halley has put support for the precious metal at $1,940/oz and resistance at $1,980/oz.

---

Aluminum was lower too, with prices down more than 1% in Asia.

Brokerage Marex noted that vehicle sales in China from January to March were weaker than expected amid chip shortages and Covid-related curbs, a further sign of weakening aluminum demand. However, low inventory levels and a tight supply outlook should limit the losses, Marex added.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Higher Oil Prices Have Yet to Lure Back Secondary Buyers

Improvements in oil prices over the past year may be bolstering cash flows at some private equity-backed oil-and-gas companies but it hasn't lured secondary buyers back to bid for interests in funds focused on the sector, at least not yet.

"You can't trade private-equity energy funds off of spot oil prices," said Michael Dean, managing director in the real assets team at HarbourVest Partners , adding that higher oil prices have made companies more profitable but have yet to contribute to a significant uptick in exits by oil-and-gas funds.

   
 
 
Japanese Yen's Drop Raises Potential for Broader Market Trouble

The Japanese yen has dropped to a 20-year low against the U.S. dollar. That risks being bad news far beyond Tokyo-in the $23 trillion market for U.S. Treasurys.

Traders around the world watch the yen's rise and fall not just to follow Japanese markets but also to gauge how investors globally are feeling. Usually, when markets are rallying, the yen tends to weaken against other currencies. When markets get turbulent, the yen tends to gain ground.

   
 
 
Covid-19 Cases Jump in Beijing as New Deaths Triple in Shanghai

HONG KONG-Beijing said it is at a critical point in its efforts to halt a Covid-19 outbreak in the city, as new cases spread from school students and a tour group, while deaths in Shanghai more than tripled from a day earlier.

The Chinese capital recorded 22 new cases on Sunday, its highest daily tally this year. Shanghai, which a week ago had recorded no new deaths in the latest wave of infections, said 39 Covid patents died Saturday-more than three times Friday's toll.

   
 
 
The Fed Wants to Raise Rates Quickly, but May Not Know Where to Stop

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell is shifting monetary tightening into a higher gear. His goal sounds straightforward-lift interest rates to "neutral," a setting that neither spurs nor slows growth.

25 Apr 2022 00:18 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Fed, China Covid Fears to -2-

But there's a catch: Even in normal times, no one knows where this theoretical level is. And these aren't normal times. There are good reasons to think the ground beneath the central bank's feet is shifting and that, after accounting for elevated inflation, neutral may be higher than officials' recent estimates.

   
 
 
Iron Ore, Steel Futures Slump on China Lockdown Fears

Iron ore and steel futures slump as demand expectations are weighed by Shanghai's extended lockdown and fears that other parts of China, including Beijing, may be subject to similarly harsh curbs.

The most-traded September iron ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange fell as much as 11% on Monday. They were recently 8.4% lower at 815.0 yuan ($125.35) a metric ton. Iron ore futures in Singapore also declined by as much as 11% in response to the negative sentiment and were recently 6.2% lower at $141.40 a ton.

   
 
 
Fed's Mester doesn't support interest-rate hike of 75 basis points in May

Cleveland Fed President Loretta Mester said Friday that she didn't want to "shock" the economy with an interest-rate hike of 75 basis points at the Fed's next meeting in May.

"I favor a more methodical approach rather than a shock of a 75-basis point. I don't think it's needed with what we're trying to do, with our policy," Mester said in an interview on CNBC.

   
 
 
Credit Suisse Prepares for Fresh Round of Management Turnover

Credit Suisse Group AG is preparing for another management shuffle after a year of crisis, people familiar with the matter said.

The Swiss bank said Sunday that its board hasn't made decisions but that it is reviewing senior appointments and succession plans. Long-serving executives in roles including the chief financial officer, general counsel and Asia head could be shifted out as the bank makes changes, said people familiar with the matter. A search was under way last fall for a new general counsel, according to the people.

   
 
 
France's Emmanuel Macron Wins Second Term in Presidential Election

PARIS-French President Emmanuel Macron was re-elected by a wide margin, according to projections based on early ballot counts, overcoming deep divisions among voters worried about inflation, the war in Ukraine and the impact of immigration on France's national identity.

Mr. Macron garnered 58.8% of the estimated vote Sunday, while far-right leader Marine Le Pen won 41.2%, according to a projection from polling firm Ipsos .

   
 
 
Nestlé Rejiggers Operations to Keep Supplying Food in Ukraine

Nestlé SA is rejiggering its operations and supply chain to keep factories running in Ukraine, while ramping up efforts to get food donations to the hardest hit parts of the country.

After Russia invaded in February, many big multinationals suspended operations in Ukraine, citing concerns about employee safety, labor shortages and the difficulty of getting raw materials into the country.

   
 
 
Russia Blocks Economic Data, Hiding Effect of Western Sanctions

The West's window into the Russian economy is closing.

In recent days, authorities stopped publishing data on government debt, trade statistics and oil production. The central bank limited the volume of financial information that local banks have to publish regularly while lawmakers are working on a bill banning lenders from sharing data with foreign states.

   
 
 
Ukraine's Grim Economic Toll From War Confronts World Governments

WASHINGTON-Top world financial officials gathered in Washington this past week confronted a grim picture of the growing economic costs of Russia's war in Ukraine and the challenges they face to help pay Ukraine's short- and long-term bills.

Ukraine needs around $5 billion a month in budgetary support for up to five months and roughly $600 billion for a broader rebuilding effort, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said Thursday at a forum hosted by the World Bank during spring meetings held with the International Monetary Fund .

   
 
 
Sanctions Strand Thousands of Russia-Bound Luxury Cars

Some 8,000 luxury cars destined for Russia are parked at the Port of Zeebrugge in Belgium as authorities there try to navigate a maze of sanctions slapped on Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

The cars-including some of the latest Lexus, Cadillac and Mercedes models-arrived from Asia in the first week of April. They were supposed to be transshipped to Russia, but came under a luxury ban that prohibits vehicles worth more than EUR50,000, equivalent to $54,000, from being exported. The buildup of vehicles is one example of the confusion at key European ports over how to interpret and enforce sanctions against Russia.

   
 
 
Twitter , Elon Musk Are in Talks to Strike a Deal

Twitter Inc . is in discussions to sell itself to Elon Musk and could finalize a deal as soon as this week, people familiar with the matter said, a dramatic turn of events just 10 days after the billionaire unveiled his $43 billion bid for the social-media company.

The two sides met Sunday to discuss Mr. Musk's proposal and were making progress, though still had issues to hash out, the people said. There are no guarantee they will reach a deal.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Monday

05:00/FIN: Mar PPI

07:00/CZE: Apr Business cycle survey (consumer/business confidence)

07:00/SPN: Mar PPI

08:00/GER: Apr Ifo Business Climate Index

09:00/EU: Feb Construction output

09:00/MLT: Mar RPI

09:00/LUX: Feb Trade

10:00/UK: Apr CBI Industrial Trends Survey

12:00/POL: Mar Broad money M3

13:00/BEL: Apr Business Confidence Survey

23:01/UK: Mar Zoopla House Price Index

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

April 25, 2022 00:18 ET (04:18 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220425ei4p00022


Live updates: Zelenskyy says Ukrainians forced to go to Russia
3367 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
ATHENS, Greece — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says that half a million Ukrainians have been “illegally taken to Russia, or other places, against their will.”

Speaking to Greek state TV ERT, Zelenskyy said the remaining civilians in the Azovstal factory in the city of Mariupol are afraid to board buses because they believe they will be taken to Russia.

The United Nations has begun evacuating civilians from the factory.

Zelenskyy said U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres assured him that those evacuated would end up in an area controlled by the government of Ukraine.

"We want to believe this,” the Ukrainian leader said.

___

WARSAW, Poland — A top-level U.S. congressional delegation led by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was in Warsaw on Monday to express gratitude to Poland for its humanitarian and other support for Ukraine.

Pelosi and a half dozen U.S. lawmakers met with President Andrzej Duda and Polish lawmakers in Warsaw. The visit followed a weekend visit to Kyiv where they met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, pledging to support his country until it defeats Russia.

In a statement after the meeting with Duda, Pelosi called him “a valued partner in supporting the people of Ukraine in the face of Putin’s brutal and unprovoked war.”

She said that during their meeting the members of her delegation “expressed America’s deep gratitude to the Polish government and Polish people for opening their hearts and homes to Ukrainian refugees, and we reaffirmed our nation’s pledge to continue supporting Poland’s humanitarian efforts.”

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — A Finnish nuclear energy company said Monday it has decided to terminate with immediate effect a contract with Russian state nuclear energy corporation Rosatom for the delivery of a nuclear power plant, in part due to the war in Ukraine “which has worsened the risks for the project.”

The company, Fennovoima, also cited “significant delays and inability to deliver the project” for terminating the deal to build the northern Finland Hanhikivi Nuclear Power Plant.

It was proposed to house a Russian-designed pressurized water reactor, with a capacity of 1200 MW and the nuclear power plant was to generate approximately 10% of Finland’s electricity needs, the company said.

In April 2021, the company announced that construction was to begin in 2023 and commercial operation would start in 2029.

In a statement, Fennovoimas’s CEO Joachim Specht said the decision “is estimated to have a significant employee impact in Fennovoima and is expected to impact also the supply chain companies.”

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military says its forces have struck dozens of Ukrainian military targets in the east.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said Monday that Russian warplanes fired precision guided missiles to hit 38 Ukrainian targets, including concentrations of troops and weapons, over the last 24 hours. He said that a Russian air strike also destroyed an ammunition depot near Chervone in the Zaporizhzhia region.

Konashenkov said that a Ukrainian MiG-29 fighter jet was downed near the eastern town of Slovyansk.

The announcements couldn’t be independently confirmed.

In recent weeks, the Russian military has focused is efforts on Ukraine’ industrial heartland called Donbas, where Moscow-backed separatists have been battling Ukrainian forces since 2014.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian military says that Russia has redeployed some of its forces from the port of Mariupol to join its offensive in the east.

The General Staff of the Ukrainian armed forces said Monday that several Russian battalions had been sent from Mariupol to the town of Popasna in the eastern Luhansk region. Popasna has been one of the epicenters of fighting in the east as the Russian military has sought to break through the Ukrainian defenses there in a bid to encircle Ukrainian forces in the east.

The Ukrainian General Staff also said that the Russians were also trying to press their attacks from Izyum to the towns of Slovyansk and Barvinkove. Ukrainian military analyst Oleh Zhdanov told The Associated Press that the redeployment of forces from Mariupol to the frontline in the east reflect their failure to make any gains there.

The Russian military is still struggling to uproot the last remaining Ukrainian pocket of resistance at the giant Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol. The U.N. is set to coordinate an effort Monday to evacuate civilians sheltering at the plant.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian authorities say several civilians have been killed in the latest Russian bombardment.

The office of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Monday that at least three people were killed and another three, including a child, were wounded in the eastern Luhansk region over the last 24 hours. It said that four people were wounded in the shelling in another eastern region of Donetsk.

The regional administration in the Zaporizhzhia region further west said that at least two people died and another four were wounded in the Russian shelling of the town of Orikhiv.

___

BERLIN — Germany says it would be able to cope if supplies of Russian oil were cut off due to an embargo or a decision by Moscow.

Economy Minister Robert Habeck said that Russian oil now accounts for 12% of total imports, down from 35% before the war, and most of it goes to the Schwedt refinery near Berlin.

Habeck acknowledged that losing those supplies could result in a “bumpy” situation for the capital and surrounding region, with price hikes and shortages, but that wouldn’t result in Germany “slipping into an oil crisis.”

He said the issue of an oil embargo would be discussed at an EU energy ministers meeting in Brussels, attended by also India. Still, he added that “other countries aren’t so far yet and I think that needs to be respected.”

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — Denmark has summoned Russia’s Ambassador in Copenhagen Monday to explain the violation by a Russian military reconnaissance plane of Danish airspace last week.

The plane, an AN-30 propeller plane, first briefly entered the Danish airspace late April 29 east of the Danish Baltic Island of Bornholm before flying into Swedish airspace.

Denmark’s Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said Monday on Twitter that it was “extremely worrying in the current situation.”

Over the weekend, Swedish Defense Minister Peter Hultqvist said the violation was “unacceptable” and “unprofessional.”

___

BRUSSELS — European Union energy ministers are meeting later Monday to discuss Russia’s decision to cut gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland, and debate planned new sanctions over Moscow’s war on Ukraine.

The 27-nation EU has imposed five rounds of sanctions on Russian officials, oligarchs, banks, companies and other organizations since Russian troops invaded Ukraine in February.

The European Commission is working on a sixth round of measures which could include oil restrictions, but Russia-dependent countries like Hungary and Slovakia are wary of taking tough action.

The EU’s executive branch could announce new sanction proposals later this week. The measures would have to be approved by the member countries — a process that can take several days.

The energy ministers will also look at what steps to take should Russia ramp up its pressure by cutting gas supplies to other countries.

___

TEL AVIV, Israel — Israel has summoned the Russian ambassador over comments made by the Russian foreign minister about Nazism and antisemitism.

In an interview with an Italian news channel, Sergey Lavrov explained that Ukraine could still have Nazi elements even if some figures, including the country’s president, were Jewish.

“Hitler also had Jewish origins, so it doesn’t mean anything,” he said, according to an Italian translation.

In a statement Monday, Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid called the remarks “unforgivable and scandalous and a horrible historical error.”

“The Jews did not murder themselves in the Holocaust,” Lapid said. “The lowest level of racism against Jews is to blame Jews themselves for antisemitism.”

Israel’s Holocaust memorial Yad Vashem called the remarks “absurd, delusional, dangerous and deserving of condemnation.”

The stern reaction stands in contrast to Israel’s position on the war in Ukraine, where it has tried to maintain a semblance of neutrality. It relies on Russia for security coordination in Syria and has been measured in its criticism of Russia’s invasion. Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has also tried mediating between the two countries, though the efforts appear to have stalled.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — Denmark will become the first Nordic country to reopen its diplomatic mission in Kyiv, meaning Danes “can have a direct cooperation by having our embassy and ambassador in the heart of the Ukrainian capital,” Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said Monday.

Kofod said the improved security situation meant that Ambassador Ole Egberg Mikkelsen and his staff can return to Kyiv, where their embassy reopens Monday.

However, Kofod who had traveled to the Ukrainian capital for the reopening of the embassy, told Danish media that “this is not a normal situation” as he spoke of the overall circumstances in Ukraine. Denmark, he added, still advises against all travel to the country where there “is a fierce war.”

___

ISTANBUL — Turkey’s president says the war in Ukraine shouldn’t negatively affect the tourism season.

After prayers marking the beginning of the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that Russian President Vladimir Putin is “very sensitive” about Turkey’s need for tourism revenue and has already pledged to give his support.

Turkey suffers from skyrocketing inflation and needs tourists’ foreign currencies. Erdogan added Saudi tourists would also be arriving following his visit to Saudi Arabia last week.

In an interview with Greek state broadcaster ERT, Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russian tourism brought revenue to neighboring Greece and Turkey and called this “blood money.” Zelenskyy pointed to a double standard where Turkey acted as a meditator between Ukraine and Russia while preparing destinations for Russian tourists.

Erdogan said he’ll speak with Russian President Vladimir Putin this week to discuss speeding up evacuations from the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol and to find a way for grain exports from Ukraine and Russia.

___

LVIV, Ukraine — The British military believes more than a quarter of all troops Russia deployed for its war in Ukraine are now “combat ineffective.”

The comment Monday came as part of a daily briefing on Twitter the British Defense Ministry has offered about the ongoing war in Ukraine. The British military believes Russia committed over 120 so-called “battalion tactical groups” into the war since February, which represents 65% of all of Moscow’s combat strength.

The ministry said, “It is likely that more than a quarter of these units have now been rendered combat ineffective.”

Combat ineffective is a term that refers to a military’s ability to wage war. Losing soldiers to wounds and death, as well as having equipment damaged or destroyed, affects that.

The British military said that some of Russia’s most elite forces, like the VDV Airborne, “have suffered the highest levels of attrition.”

It added: “It will probably take years for Russia to reconstitute these forces.”

---

KYIV, Ukraine — Sviastoslav Palamar, deputy commander of the Azov Regiment, which is helping defend the last section of Mariupol not occupied by the Russians, said he was glad evacuations had begun.

Palamar hoped the evacuations from the Azovstal steel mill continue until everyone in the plant, civilians and soldiers, had gotten out. It’s been difficult even to reach some of the wounded inside the plant, he told The Associated Press in an interview from Mariupol on Sunday.

“There’s rubble. We have no special equipment. It`s hard for soldiers to pick up slabs weighing tons only with their arms,” he said.

The Azovstal plant is strewn with mines, rockets, artillery shells and unexploded cluster ordnance, he said.

Along with the Azov regiment, Palamar said, the plant is being defended by the 36th Marine Brigade, police officers, border guards, coast guard and more. “Some of them guard the territory, some of them prevent attempted attacks, some of them are responsible for a ceasefire, some of them help to clear the rubble under shelling.”

He said the presence of children and civilians makes it harder to fight, and there are many injured people in the plant. There’s not enough water, he said, and the air smells of decomposing bodies.

The fighters in the plant will continue to resist until they receive an order not to, Palamar said.

“The best solution in this situation is our evacuation. Does it make a sense to continue carrying this massacre?” he asked.

The standoff at the steel plant saved many lives, he believes. “Because if we hadn’t done this, the front line would be much bigger. The front line would be in another area.”

___

An explosive device damaged a railway bridge Sunday in the Kursk region of Russia, which borders Ukraine, and a criminal investigation has been started. The region’s government reported the blast in a post on Telegram.

Recent weeks have seen a number of fires and explosions in Russian regions near the border, including Kursk. An ammunition depot in the Belgorod region burned after explosions were heard, and authorities in the Voronezh region said an air defense system shot down a drone. An oil storage facility in Bryansk was engulfed by fire a week ago.

The explosion Sunday caused a partial collapse of the bridge near the village of Konopelka, on the Sudzha-Sosnovy Bor railway, the report from Kursk said.

“It was a sabotage, a criminal case has been opened,” said the region’s governor, Roman Starovoit, according to TASS. He said there were no casualties, and no effect on the movement of trains.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Four civilians were reported killed and 11 more were injured by Russian shelling in the Donetsk region on Sunday, the Ukrainian regional governor said that evening.

The deaths and seven of the injuries were in the northern city of Lyman, governor Pavlo Kyrylenko wrote in a Telegram post. One person also died in the city of Bakhmut from injuries received in the Luhansk region, he said.

In the same post, Kyrylenko said that it was impossible to determine the number of victims in the bombed-out port city of Mariupol and the town of Volnovakha, which is controlled by pro-Kremlin separatists.

___

LVIV, Ukraine — President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Moscow of waging “a war of extermination,” citing strikes against non-military targets on Sunday.

Zelenskyy said in his nightly address that Russian shelling had hit food, grain and fertilizer warehouses, and residential neighborhoods in the Kharkiv, Donbas and other regions.

“The targets they choose prove once again that the war against Ukraine is a war of extermination for the Russian army,” he said.

He said Russia will gain nothing from the damage but will further isolate itself from the rest of the world.

“What could be Russia’s strategic success in this war?" Zelenskyy said. "Honestly, I do not know.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s president is describing his hourslong weekend meeting with U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in Kyiv as a powerful signal of support in a difficult time.

In a televised address on Sunday evening, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his meeting with Pelosi included discussions of defense supplies to Ukraine, financial support and sanctions against Russia.

Pelosi and a half dozen U.S. lawmakers met with Zelenskyy and his top aides for about three hours late Saturday to voice American solidarity with the besieged nation and get a first-hand assessment as she works to steer a massive new Ukraine aid package through Congress.

Zelenskyy says Ukrainians “are grateful to all partners who send such important and powerful signals of support by visiting our capital at such a difficult time.”

Additionally, Zelenskyy estimated that more than 350,000 people had been evacuated from combat zones thanks to humanitarian corridors pre-arranged with Moscow since the start of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in late February. Many civilians were evacuated Sunday from at a steel plant in the bombed-out city of Mariupol.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — A Ukrainian military officer says that Russian forces have resumed their shelling of a steel plant in the war-torn port city Mariupol immediately after the partial evacuation of civilians.

Ukrainian National Guard brigade commander Denys Shlega said Sunday in a televised interview that the shelling began as soon as rescue crews ceased evacuating civilians at the Azovstal steel mill.

Shlega says that at least one more round of evacuations is needed to clear civilians from the plant. He says dozens of small children remain in bunkers below the industrial facilities.

The commander estimates that several hundred civilians still are trapped at the site alongside nearly 500 wounded soldiers and numerous dead bodies. The plant is the only part of the city not occupied by the Russians.

A video published earlier on Sunday by the Russian defense ministry showed people walking out of the steel plant, including a small group of women accompanied by two pet dogs.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that Sunday’s evacuations from Mariupol marked the initiation of a vitally need humanitarian corridor.

___

BERLIN — Germany says it’s making progress on weaning itself off Russian fossil fuels and expects to be fully independent of crude oil imports from Russia by late summer.

Economy and Climate Minister Robert Habeck said Sunday that Europe’s largest economy has reduced its share of Russian energy imports to 12% for oil, 8% for coal and 35% for natural gas.

Habeck says those steps mean increased costs for the economy and for consumers. But he says the changes are necessary if Germany no longer wants to be “blackmailed by Russia.”

The announcement comes as the European Union considers an embargo on Russian oil. The bloc has already decided to ban Russian coal imports starting in August.

Weaning German off Russian natural gas is a far bigger challenge. Before Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, Germany got more than half of its natural gas imports from Russia.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — The city council in the bombed-out southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol says Monday is the scheduled start date for a broad, U.N.-backed evacuation of its civilians, other than those sheltering at a steel plant.

The city council also confirmed Sunday in a social media post on Telegram that some civilians were being evacuated Sunday from the Azovstal steelworks that is the last Ukrainian defense stronghold in Mariupol. City officials note the support of the Red Cross and say the wider evacuation of the strategic port city was delayed by security concerns.

As many as 100,000 people are believed to still be in blockaded Mariupol, including up to 1,000 civilians who were hunkered down with an estimated 2,000 Ukrainian fighters beneath the Soviet-era steel plant. The plant is the only part of the city not occupied by the Russians.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian army says that a Russian offensive along a broad front in the country’s east has been stalling amid human and material losses inflicted by Kyiv’s forces.

The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said Sunday in a Facebook post that Russian troops were trying to advance in the Sloboda, Donetsk and Tauride regions, but were being held back by Ukrainian forces that continue to fight village by village.

Separately, Ukrainian intelligence officials accused Russian forces of destroying medical infrastructure, taking equipment and denying medical care to residents in several occupied cities and towns.

In a Facebook post Sunday, Ukraine’s Ministry of Defense claims that ventilators and other equipment provided since 2014 by international donors and the government of Ukraine were removed from a hospital at Starobilsk in Ukraine’s eastern Luhansk region.

The same post alleges that tuberculosis patients were denied medical care in the Kharkiv region at Volchansk while several facilities were used to treat wounded Russian troops.

The accuracy of the claims could not be immediately verified.

Ukrainian officials also said Sunday that internet and cellular communications were cut in a large area in the Russian-occupied Kherson region and part of the Zaporizhzhia region and blamed Russian forces. The London-based internet monitor Netblocks said the Kherson region lost 75% of internet connectivity beginning Saturday evening.

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220502ei5200032


News
Russia-Ukraine live news: Fighting rages at Mariupol steel plant
Sasha Petrova, Ali Harb, Umut Uras
4055 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 21:10 GMT
Al Jazeera English
AJAZEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Al Jazeera English.
Kyiv accuses Russia of attacking the Azovstal steelworks, as Moscow promises a local ceasefire.

Click to view image[https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&tid=UA-1615344-99&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.aljazeera.com%2Fnews%2F2022%2F5%2F4%2Frussia-facing-stiff-ukrainian-resistance-in-donbas-us-says-liveblog&cid=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D&t=pageview&cd2=post-aje-1722197&cd3=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D]

* Ukrainian army says “bloody battles” are ongoing as Russia tries to destroy the last defence at Azovstal steel plant after breaking into the giant factory.

* Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy calls for a prolonged truce to rescue[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/5/zelenskyy-says-longer-truce-needed-to-evacuate-mariupol-civilians] the approximately 200 civilians and fighters sheltering in the bunkers of the Azovstal steel plant.

* Kyiv is unlikely to launch a counteroffensive against Russia before mid-June when it hopes to have received more weapons from allies, a senior Ukrainian official says.

* France says it is confident European Union member states will reach a consensus on how to end Russian oil imports by the end of this week.

* Moscow says it has declared seven Danish diplomats ‘persona non grata’ in response to Copenhagen expelling 15 Russian diplomats last month.

Russian attacks in western Ukraine aimed at critical infrastructure: US

Click to view image[https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/INTERACTIVE_UKRAINE_CONTROL-MAP-DAY71_May-5-03-01.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C770]

Here are all the latest updates:

31 mins ago (11:05 GMT)

No Ukrainian counteroffensive expected before mid-June: Kyiv

Ukraine is unlikely to launch a counteroffensive in its war with Russia before mid-June, when it hopes to have received more weapons from its allies, according to an adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.

Political adviser Oleksiy Arestovych also said he did not expect Russia’s offensive in Ukraine to produce any “significant results” by May 9, when Russia celebrates victory over Nazi Germany in World War II.

1 hour ago (10:08 GMT)

Russia expels seven Danish diplomats in retaliatory move

Russia’s foreign ministry says it has declared seven Danish diplomats ‘persona non grata’ in response to Copenhagen expelling 15 Russian diplomats last month, with Moscow also objecting to Copenhagen’s military assistance to Ukraine.

The ministry said Denmark’s anti-Russian policy was seriously damaging bilateral relations and that Russia reserved the right to take additional steps in response.

2 hours ago (09:50 GMT)

Russia ‘trying to destroy’ last Ukrainian units in Azovstal: Kyiv

Ukraine says Russia is “trying to destroy” its remaining soldiers holed up in Mariupol’s Azovstal steel plant, with Kyiv’s last defenders in the battered city saying Moscow forces have broken into the giant factory.

“Russian occupiers are focusing on blocking and trying to destroy Ukrainian units in the Azovstal area,” Kyiv’s army said in a statement, adding: “With the support of aircraft, Russia resumed the offensive in order to take control of the plant.”

The statement came as a Russian-announced ceasefire was due to begin at the besieged plant, where hundreds of Ukrainian soldiers and some civilians have been trapped for weeks.

Smoke rises above from Azovstal Iron and Steel Works on May 3, 2022 File: Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/azovstal.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C509]

2 hours ago (09:24 GMT)

Gazprom says it will use Nord Stream 2 capacity for domestic gas supply

Russian energy giant Gazprom says it will use the onshore capacity of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline for domestic gas needs.

In February, Germany halted approvals for the Nord Stream 2 Baltic Sea gas pipeline project, which is designed to double the flow of Russian gas direct to Germany.

Pipes at landfall facilities of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline are in Lubmin, Germany [File: Michael Sohn/AP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/pipe.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C497]

3 hours ago (08:53 GMT)

Russia-Ukraine war: List of key events, day 71

As the Russia-Ukraine war enters its 71st day, we take a look at the main developments.

Read more here[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/5/russia-ukraine-war-list-of-key-events-day-71].

Click to view image[https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/INTERACTIVE_UKRAINE_CONTROL-MAP-DAY71_May-5-03-02.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C770]

3 hours ago (08:25 GMT)

French minister expects EU consensus on Russian oil ban by end of week

The French environment and energy minister, Barbara Pompili, says she is confident European Union member states will reach a consensus on how to end Russian oil imports by the end of this week.

“Some countries are more dependent on Russian oil than others, and so we must try to find solutions so that they can come on board these sanctions,” she told France Info radio. “But I think we should be able to do it.”

France has this week hosted an emergency meeting of EU energy ministers to discuss how to deal with Moscow’s decision to halt gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland for not paying in roubles.

Pompili acknowledges some countries are more dependent on Russian oil [Gonzalo Fuentes/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/2022-04-28T101135Z_114260197_RC2AWT924QQM_RTRMADP_3_FRANCE-POLITICS.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C513]

4 hours ago (07:57 GMT)

Russia says it killed over 600 Ukrainian fighters

Russia’s defence ministry says its artillery struck multiple Ukrainian positions and strongholds overnight, killing 600 fighters.

The statement also said its missiles destroyed aviation equipment at the Kanatovo airfield in Ukraine’s central Kirovohrad region and a large ammunition depot in the southern city of Mykolaiv.

4 hours ago (07:37 GMT)

Two Russian villages shelled by Ukraine: governor

Two villages in Russia’s Belgorod region bordering Ukraine have been shelled by Ukraine, according to Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov, who added that there were no civilian casualties.

“There is shelling from the Ukrainian side on Zhuravlyovka and Nekhoteevka,” he said.

5 hours ago (06:59 GMT)

Russia ‘stole’ 400,000 tonnes of grain: Ukraine’s defence ministry

Ukraine’s defence ministry says Russia’s occupying forces have “stolen” 400,000 tonnes of grain from the south of the country. The message on the ministry’s Twitter account appeared next to images of burned-out grain fields.

“At least 400,000 tons of grain were stolen by russia [sic] in the occupied south of Ukraine. That’s over 6,000 hoppers. russian thieves are bringing death and famine to the world,” the ministry wrote on Twitter.

6 hours ago (06:06 GMT)

More than 220 children have died in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine: Ombudsman

Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 221 children have died, and 408 have been injured, Ukraine’s ombudsman for human rights has said.

“It is not possible to establish the actual number of dead and wounded children due to the fact that the occupying forces are actively fighting in Ukrainian cities,” Lyudmyla Denisova wrote on Telegram.

6 hours ago (05:28 GMT)

Russia may use Belarus military exercises as decoy: UK

Russia may try to inflate the threat that Belarusian military exercises pose to Ukraine in order to get Ukraine’s forces to move to the north of the country and away from fighting in the Donbas, the UK’s defence ministry says.

In its latest intelligence briefing, the ministry said that the sudden exercises of the Belarusian army are “in line with seasonal norms” as Belarus enters the culmination of its winter training cycle.

“Deviation from normal exercise activity that could pose a threat to allies and partners is not currently anticipated,” the ministry added.

6 hours ago (05:17 GMT)

Shelling kills five in Luhansk: Governor

Russian shelling killed five civilians in the Luhansk region in the past 24 hours, Governor Serhiy Haidai has said.

Haidai said the shelling focused on Severodonetsk and Popasna, Hirske and Lysychansk.

7 hours ago (05:04 GMT)

Japan says difficult to immediately follow Russia oil embargo

Japan would face “difficulty” immediately following a move to cut off Russian oil imports over the invasion of Ukraine, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Koichi Hagiuda has said.

Hagiuda made the remark during a visit to Washington, DC, after the EU proposed a new round of sanctions that included an oil embargo.

United States President Joe Biden said he would discuss further sanctions against Russia with other leaders from the G7 this week, which could pressure Japan which is wary of the effect of the oil embargo.

“Given Japan has its limit on resources, we would face some difficulty to keep in step immediately” with other countries, Hagiuda told reporters.

7 hours ago (05:01 GMT)

Shelling hits centre of Kramatorsk, wounds six: Mayor

Shelling in residential areas of the centre of Kramatorsk damaged several multi-storey buildings, a school and a kindergarten, the city’s mayor has said.

At least six people were wounded in the attacks, Alexander Goncharenko wrote on Facebook.

Debris covers the inside of the Donetsk Academic Regional Drama Theatre following a March 16, 2022, bombing in Mariupol, Ukraine, in an area now controlled by Russian forces, Monday, April 4, 2022 [Alexei Alexandrov/AP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/theatre.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C513]

7 hours ago (04:44 GMT)

Russia lost control over settlements on Mykolaiv and Kherson border: Army

Russian forces lost control over several settlements on the border of the Mykolaiv and Kherson regions due to “successful actions of Ukrainian defenders”, the Ukrainian army has said.

The latest update from the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said that over the past day, the Russian military continued to shell the city of Kharkiv and the area north of the city of Izium.

The Russian army have also been trying to conduct offensive operations in Lyman, Severodonetsk and Popasna, but have been unsuccessful, the general staff said on Facebook.

“In the Mariupol area, Russian occupiers are focusing their efforts on blocking and trying to destroy Ukrainians’ units in the Azovstal area. With the support of aircraft, the enemy resumed the offensive in order to take control of the plant,” the statement added.

7 hours ago (04:13 GMT)

EU targets Russian Patriarch Kirill in new proposed sanctions: Diplomat

The European Commission has proposed freezing the assets of Patriarch Kirill, head of the Russian Orthodox Church, a diplomat has said.

The Patriarch has been added to a draft blacklist that includes hundreds of military officers and business people close to the Kremlin whom the EU accuses of supporting the war in Ukraine, the Reuters news agency reported.

The sanction, which would entail an asset freeze and a travel ban, needs the backing of EU states to be adopted. Members will meet later this week to discuss the EU’s sixth package of sanctions against Russia announced on Wednesday, which includes an oil embargo.

Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia conducts a service to consecrate the renovated Cathedral of the Nativity of the Blessed Mother of God in Rostov-on-Don, Russia, October 27, 2019 [Sergey Pivovarov/File Photo/REUTERS][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Kirill.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C505]

9 hours ago (03:03 GMT)

The Ukrainian refugees who made it to Australia

On the day Russia invaded Ukraine[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/24/russia-putin-shatters-peace-europe-ukraine-invasion], 12-year-old Anastasiia was woken by two cruise missiles over the top of her house.

“They were like fighter jets,” she remembered.

Anastasiia is one of the thousands of Ukrainian refugees who have sought refuge in Australia since Russia invaded their country on February 24.

Al Jazeera spoke to Anastasiia and two other Ukrainian refugees about their perilous journey to a country nearly 15,000km (9,300 miles) away.

Read more here[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/5/the-ukrainian-refugees-who-made-it-to-australia].

9 hours ago (02:16 GMT)

Zelenskyy asks for prolonged truce to rescue Azovstal civilians

Zelenskyy has said that “we need to continue the silence” to rescue the others still trapped in the Azovstal steel plant.

“We are negotiating and hope to continue rescuing people from Azovstal, from Mariupol. There are still civilians. Women, children,” he said in his nighttime address.

“To save them, we need to continue the silence. The Ukrainian side is ready to provide it. It takes time to just lift people out of those basements, out of those underground shelters. In the current conditions, we cannot use special equipment to clear the debris. Everything is done manually,” he added.

Ukrainian officials say some 200 civilians as well as Ukrainian fighters are still holed up in the plant’s network of underground bunkers.

10 hours ago (01:57 GMT)

US intelligence helped Ukraine kill Russian generals: NYT

The US provided Ukraine with intelligence that allowed its troops to target and kill many of the Russian generals who have died in the current war, the New York Times has reported, citing senior American officials.

“The targeting help is part of a classified effort by the Biden administration to provide real-time battlefield intelligence to Ukraine,” the NYT reported the officials as having said.

The report said that the US provided Ukraine with location and other details about the Russian military’s headquarters, which are frequently relocated, and that Ukraine combined this with its own intelligence, which included intercepted conversations, which helped locate senior Russian officers. Then Ukraine conducted strikes and other attacks on these locations.

Ukrainian officials have said they have killed around 12 generals on the front lines – a very high number, according to many military analysts.

10 hours ago (01:43 GMT)

Stanislav Shushkevich, first leader of independent Belarus, dies in Minsk

Stanislav Shushkevich, the first leader of independent Belarus following the collapse of the Soviet Union, has died at 87, after being hospitalised for COVID-19.

Shushkevich was one of three leaders including Russia’s Boris Yeltsin and Ukraine’s Leonid Kravchuk who in 1991 signed an agreement effectively dissolving the Soviet Union. They formed a Commonwealth of Independent States and Shushkevich, a nuclear physicist before entering politics, led independent Belarus for less than three years before he was overthrown by Lukashenko.

He was well regarded by the US, particularly for his commitment to ridding Belarus of the nuclear weapons from the Soviet era that remained on its soil. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he was saddened to learn of Shushkevich’s death. “Our thoughts are with his loved ones and the people of Belarus, who carry on the struggle for a democratic, prosperous, and peaceful #FreeBelarus,” Blinken wrote in a tweet.

10 hours ago (01:22 GMT)

Air alert sirens blare across Ukraine

Air alert sirens have been activated throughout every region and most cities of Ukraine overnight.

“Everyone is in hiding: an air alert has been declared throughout Ukraine,” the country’s Channel 24 wrote on Twitter.

“Note that in the Luhansk region the alarm has been going on continuously since April 4. Currently, sirens are not heard only in the Kherson region,” Channel 24 said in an article.

11 hours ago (00:59 GMT)

Russia may hope to capture Azovstal by May 9: Think-tank

Russian forces reportedly entered the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, rather than its outskirts, for the first time on Wednesday, the Institute for the Study of War (ISW) has said.

“The extent of this Russian advance remains unclear, and Russian forces likely face further costly fighting if they intend to clear the entire facility,” the ISW wrote in its latest assessment on Russia’s offensive.

It added that the “Kremlin likely hopes” to capture Azovstal to “cement the Kremlin’s growing effort to claim complete control of Mariupol by May 9”, which is the date Russia celebrates its victory over Nazi Germany.

11 hours ago (00:48 GMT)

Russia boycotts Security Council meeting due to ‘Russophobic policy’

Russia refused to participate in Wednesday’s informal meeting of the UN Security Council with the EU because of the bloc’s “hostile and Russophobic policy”, Russia’s representative to the UN has said.

Dmitry Polyansky wrote on Telegram that the EU policy was “actively trying to extinguish the fire of the Ukrainian crisis by pouring gasoline on it”, adding that there was no other explanation for the “open warmongering” by the EU leadership.

The Security Council’s annual meeting with the EU’s Political and Security Committee on Wednesday is the first since 2019 due to the pandemic.

UK sending Ukraine £45 million for humanitarian aid, more medical supplies

Britain’s foreign secretary has announced £45 million ($56 million) in funding for agencies and charities doing humanitarian work on the ground in Ukraine and its borders.

“Of the £45 million, £15 million will go to the UN Ukraine Humanitarian Fund, to provide immediate life-saving assistance and help tackle sexual and gender-based violence through targeted services, legal support and crisis accommodation,” a statement from Liz Truss’s office said.

A further £15m will go to UNICEF to fund services like nutrition for pregnant women and mental health support for children.

Truss also announced further deliveries of medical supplies, including wound care packs to treat more than 220,000 patients and about 380,000 packs of medicine.

Children from Ukraine sleep on luggage at a railway station in Przemysl, southeastern Poland, on Wednesday, March 23, 2022 [Sergei Grits/AP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Poland.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C513]

12 hours ago (23:53 GMT)

Zelenskyy pays tribute to killed Ukrainian journalist

Zelenskyy started his latest nighttime address by remembering Ukrainian journalist and TV reporter, Oleksandr Makhov, who he said died on Wednesday in the Kharkiv region, “in the battles near Izium”.

“He was always among the bravest, among the first. He always worked in the hottest spots. Tried to bring true material. From the first day of the full-scale war, he was on the front line,” Zelenskyy said

“He was 36 years old. My sincere condolences to relatives and friends. Let his son Vladyslav know: Russia will bear responsibility for this death,” he said, adding that Ukraine will win and make Oleksandr’s dream come true.

12 hours ago (23:38 GMT)

UK’s Johnson to host Japanese PM for Ukraine talks

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will host his Japanese counterpart for talks to focus on Ukraine and countries affected by Russia’s invasion.

Meetings between Johnson and Fumio Kishida tomorrow are expected to focus on “how international alliances can continue to exert maximum pressure on President Putin’s regime while supporting Ukraine and other European countries affected,” a government statement said.

They will also agree to closer collaboration to help countries in Asia develop renewables, “supporting their transition to green energy and helping to provide alternative supplies to Russian oil and gas”.

The statement added the two will agree in principle to a reciprocal access agreement to allow Japanese and British forces to “work, exercise and operate together”.

13 hours ago (22:52 GMT)

Further sanctions likely if Russia continues war, says US treasury secretary

US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has said the US is in constant discussions with its partners about further sanctions and could impose “additional actions” to pressure Moscow.

At a Wall Street Journal conference, Yellen would not preview any specific actions under consideration but stressed that further measures were likely “if Russia continues this war against Ukraine”.

Yellen said she believed Western sanctions so far had taken an enormous toll on the Russian economy, curtailing foreign investment and preventing it from accessing goods it needs to compete in the global economy over the long term.

13 hours ago (22:45 GMT)

More than 300 civilians evacuated from southern Ukraine: UN

More than 300 civilians were evacuated from Mariupol and other areas in southern Ukraine as part of a joint UN-Red Cross operation that concluded on Wednesday, UN humanitarian coordinator for Ukraine Osnat Lubrani has said.

“While this second evacuation of civilians from areas in Mariupol and beyond is significant, much more must be done to make sure all civilians caught up in fighting can leave, in the direction they wish,” Lubrani said.

Women board a bus during an evacuation of civilians on a road near Slovyansk, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, May 4, 2022[Andriy Andriyenko/AP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/bus.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C513]

13 hours ago (22:30 GMT)

Ukraine accuses Russia of ‘missile terrorism’

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has accused Russia of “missile terrorism” as authorities said Russian forces bombarded cities across Ukraine.

Attacks were reported near Kyiv; in Cherkasy and Dnipro in central Ukraine, and in Zaporizhzhia in the southeast. In Dnipro, authorities said a rail facility was hit.

13 hours ago (22:11 GMT)

Zelenskyy says he spoke to Israeli PM about ‘scandalous’ Russian remarks

Zelenskyy has said he spoke to Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and discussed the “scandalous and completely unacceptable remarks[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/3/russia-says-israel-supports-neo-nazis-in-row-over-ukraine]” by Russia’s foreign minister about Adolf Hitler.

In an early morning video address, Zelenskyy said the comments by Sergey Lavrov had outraged the entire world.

In an interview on Sunday, Lavrov said the Nazi dictator had had Jewish origins, a comment that Israeli foreign minister Yair Lapid called an “unforgivable” falsehood.

14 hours ago (21:47 GMT)

Russia ‘already lost the war’, White House says

White House press secretary Jen Psaki has said that Russia “already lost the war in Ukraine”.

Pressed by a reporter to define what victory looked like for Ukraine, Psaki instead said Russian President Vladimir Putin had failed in his own objectives by invading the neighbouring country.

“He wanted this to be a moment to divide NATO, to divide the west,” Psaki said. “Clearly that is not what is happening.”

14 hours ago (21:21 GMT)

Sweden says it received US assurances should it seek to join NATO

Sweden has received assurances from the US that it would get support during the processing period for its potential application to join NATO, foreign minister Ann Linde has said.

Sweden and its neighbour Finland stayed out of NATO during the Cold War, but Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 and its invasion of Ukraine have led the countries to rethink their security policies[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/4/15/why-finland-and-sweden-will-likely-join-nato], with NATO membership looking increasingly likely.

“Naturally, I’m not going to go into any details, but I feel very sure that now we have an American assurance,” Linde told Swedish TV from Washington after meeting US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.

15 hours ago (21:01 GMT)

Russian strikes in western Ukraine aimed at critical infrastructure: Pentagon

Pentagon spokesman John Kirby has said recent Russian strikes in western Ukraine were aimed at critical infrastructure sites.

“They are attempting to hit what we assess to be critical infrastructure targets out towards the west – electrical power, transportation hubs, that kind of thing. We think this is an effort to try to disrupt the Ukrainians’ ability to replenish and reinforce themselves,” Kirby told reporters.

“Particularly these most recent strikes, we are still assessing the degree to which they hit what they were targeting. They are not good at precision strikes. They are not discriminant with how they target.”

15 hours ago (20:53 GMT)

Far-right Azov regiment says Ukrainians fighting ‘bloody battles’ in Mariupol

Ukrainian forces inside Mariupol’s Azovstal steel plant are fighting “difficult bloody battles” against Russian troops for a second day, after they broke into the territory of the plant, the commander of the far-right Azov regiment has said.

“I am proud of my soldiers who are making superhuman efforts to contain the pressure of the enemy … The situation is extremely difficult,” commander Denis Prokopenko said in a brief video message released on Telegram.

15 hours ago (20:50 GMT)

Russia meeting ‘stiff’ resistance in eastern Ukraine, US says

The Russian military has not been able to advance as far into the Donbas region of Ukraine as planned due to Ukrainian resistance, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby has said.

“Russians have not made the kind of progress in the Donbas and in the south that we believe they wanted to make. And we do believe it’s been slow. And at every turn they have met a stiff Ukrainian resistance,” Kirby told a media briefing at the Pentagon.

“What we’re focused on is making sure that resistance remains as stiff as possible.”

15 hours ago (20:42 GMT)

Russia says it will halt fighting at Mariupol plant for civilian evacuation

Russia has said its forces would halt hostilities at the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol and open a humanitarian corridor for civilians for three days beginning on Thursday.

“The Russian armed forces will from 8am to 6pm [Moscow time] on May 5, 6 and 7 open a humanitarian corridor from the territory of the Azovstal metallurgical plant to evacuate civilians,” the defence ministry said.

15 hours ago (20:39 GMT)

Zelenskyy asks UN chief for help to save people in Azovstal steel plant

Zelenskyy has asked UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for help saving people trapped in the Azovstal steel works in Mariupol, his office said in a statement.

“The lives of the people who remain there are in danger. Everyone is important to us. We ask for your help in saving them,” the statement quoted Zelenskyy as saying.

Welcome to Al Jazeera’s continuing coverage of the war in Ukraine.

Read the updates from Wednesday, May 4[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/3/us-helping-ensure-russia-strategic-failure-in-ukraine-biden-says-liveblog].

Smoke rises above a plant of Azovstal Iron and Steel Works in Mariupol [File: Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/2022-04-26T005134Z_2062570267_RC2EUT9BJ20Q_RTRMADP_3_UKRAINE-CRISIS-MARIUPOL.jpg]

Al Jazeera International

文件 AJAZEN0020220505ei54001e3


News
Russia-Ukraine live news: Int’l conference raises $6.5bn for Kyiv
Sasha Petrova, Ali Harb, Umut Uras, Federica Marsi
5222 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 21:10 GMT
Al Jazeera English
AJAZEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Al Jazeera English.
Gathered in Warsaw, countries such as Finland and Croatia pledge more support for Ukraine as Russian attacks intensify.

Click to view image[https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&tid=UA-1615344-99&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.aljazeera.com%2Fnews%2F2022%2F5%2F4%2Frussia-facing-stiff-ukrainian-resistance-in-donbas-us-says-liveblog&cid=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D&t=pageview&cd2=post-aje-1722197&cd3=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D]

* An international donors’ conference in Warsaw for Ukraine has raised $6.5bn to help the war-torn country, according to Poland’s Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki.

* Ukrainian army says “bloody battles” are ongoing as Russia tries to destroy the last defence at Azovstal steel plant after breaking into the giant factory.

* Kyiv is unlikely to launch a counteroffensive against Russia before mid-June when it hopes to have received more weapons from allies, a senior Ukrainian official says.

* France says it is confident European Union member states will reach a consensus on how to end Russian oil imports by the end of this week.

* Moscow says it has declared seven Danish diplomats “persona non grata” in response to Copenhagen expelling 15 Russian diplomats last month.

Click to view image[https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/INTERACTIVE_UKRAINE_CONTROL-MAP-DAY71_May-5-03-01.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C770]

Here are all the latest updates:

37 seconds ago (14:55 GMT)

Chinese, Russian central banks to discuss use of national payment systems

The Chinese and Russian central banks will discuss the use and promotion of their respective national payment systems in both countries, Beijing’s envoy to Moscow has told the TASS news agency.

“Regarding the promotion and use of the Mir and China UnionPay national payment systems in both countries, this question will be decided by the two sides’ central banks at consultations,” Zhang Hanhui said.

Mir and UnionPay are among the few options left for Russians to make payments abroad since Russian banks were isolated from the global financial system in response to what Moscow calls its “special military operation” in Ukraine.

34 mins ago (14:21 GMT)

NATO chief says alliance will increase presence in Baltic sea if Sweden applies

NATO will increase it’s presence around Sweden’s borders and in the Baltic sea while a potential application to join the alliance is processed, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has told Swedish public broadcaster SVT.

“From the potential moment Sweden is applying, and NATO says that they want Sweden to join, there is a very strong obligation from NATO to be able to guarantee Sweden’s security,” Stoltenberg said, adding that it would include increased presence around Sweden and in the Baltic sea.

Moscow has warned Sweden and Finland of “serious consequences” and that it could deploy nuclear weapons and hypersonic missiles in the European exclave of Kaliningrad if Sweden and Finland become NATO members.

41 mins ago (14:14 GMT)

Germany begins filling western Europe’s biggest gas storage site

Germany has started filling the huge Rehden gas storage facility abandoned by Russia’s Gazprom, the site’s state-appointed manager has said.

“We are working intensively on solutions to ensure that already soon significantly more gas can flow into the storage facility,” Egbert Laege, the trustee appointed by Germany’s energy regulator to temporarily manage the company, told Reuters.

Gazprom last month ditched its Gazprom Germania business, including western Europe’s biggest gas storage site at Rehden, as diplomatic relations deteriorated. Russian gas is vital to Europe and Germany in particular.

53 mins ago (14:03 GMT)

Bulgaria and Greece plan joint gas purchases

Bulgaria and Greece have agreed to seek joint gas deliveries for southeastern Europe and decrease reliance on Russian gas amid the war in Ukraine, Bulgarian Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov has said.

Bulgaria, which was meeting over 90 percent of its gas needs with Russian imports, saw its gas deliveries cut on April 27 along with Poland after refusing to pay in roubles.

The Balkan country, backed by the European Union’s executive Commission, is now pushing for regional cooperation that would include better use of gas and electricity infrastructure as well as joint EU gas purchases to cut dependence on Russian imports.

57 mins ago (13:59 GMT)

Japan to add 140 individuals to Russian sanction list: PM

Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida says 140 individuals will be added to a Russian asset freeze list while an export ban will be expanded to Russian military firms.

Kishida, speaking in London via a translator after a meeting with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, added that now was the time for the Group of Seven leading nations to solidify its unity.

1 hour ago (13:51 GMT)

Zelenskyy invites Scholz and Steinmeier to Kyiv: Germany

Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has invited German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and President Frank-Walter Steinmeier to visit, the German president’s office has said, three weeks after Steinmeier was snubbed by Kyiv.

Zelenskyy made the invitation in a telephone call with Steinemeier, during which “past irritations were cleared up” and Steinemeier expressed his “solidarity, respect and support” for Ukraine.

1 hour ago (13:41 GMT)

Ukraine received over $12 billion in weapons, financial aid since start of war

Ukraine has received over $12 billion in weapons and financial aid since the start of Russia’s full-scale invasion on February 24, Ukraine’s Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal has said.

Speaking at a high-level donors’ conference in Warsaw alongside the leaders of Poland, Sweden, and the head of the European Commission, Shmyhal thanked them for their unwavering support of Ukraine throughout the war.

1 hour ago (13:38 GMT)

Russia ‘violated’ promised truce at Mariupol plant: Ukrainian commander

Russia has “violated” a promised truce at Mariupol’s steelworks, where Ukrainian forces are making a last stand in the city, a Ukrainian commander has said.

“The Russians violated the promise of a truce and did not allow the evacuation of civilians who continue to hide from shelling in the basement of the plant,” Svyatoslav Palamar, a commander of the Azov regiment, said in a video on Telegram.

Wounded Ukrainian soldiers holed up in the plant were “dying in agony from inadequate treatment”, he said, urging Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to “take care” of them and to find a way to remove the bodies of soldiers who had died.

He also called on the “world community” to help evacuate civilians from the plant.

2 hours ago (12:53 GMT)

Ukraine attracts fighters from Middle East

The war in Ukraine has attracted thousands of foreign fighters battling on both sides from around the world, including the Middle East.

Some call them mercenaries, while others call them volunteers. So why are they joining the fight?

2 hours ago (12:50 GMT)

Donors’ conference in Warsaw raises $6.5bn for Ukraine

An international donors’ conference in Warsaw collecting funds for Ukraine has raised $6.5bn to help the war-torn country, Poland’s Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki says.

Countries such as Finland, the Czech Republic, Croatia and others pledged millions of euros to support humanitarian and military efforts in Ukraine as part of the conference hosted by Poland and Sweden.

The European Commission also pledged 200 million euros ($211m) in aid for displaced people in Ukraine, it said in a statement.

2 hours ago (12:29 GMT)

Fiji seizes $300m yacht of Russian oligarch Suleiman Kerimov

Authorities in Fiji have seized a $300m yacht of Russian oligarch Suleiman Kerimov at the request of the United States, according to the US Justice Department.

Kerimov was sanctioned by the US and the EU.

3 hours ago (11:50 GMT)

Spain detains pro-Russian Ukrainian blogger accused of treason

Spanish authorities have detained a pro-Russian Ukrainian blogger and aspiring politician on an international arrest warrant for suspected treason, according to a police source quoted by the Reuters news agency.

The source said Anatoliy Shariy, a vocal critic of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and his pro-Western government, had been detained in the coastal city of Tarragona in Catalonia, the source said, without providing further details.

Earlier, Ukraine’s SBU security service said in a statement Shariy was detained on Wednesday in an operation coordinated between Ukrainian authorities and Spanish police on suspicion of committing treason and the crime of “breaching the equal rights of citizens” based on race, nationality or other attributes.

4 hours ago (11:05 GMT)

No Ukrainian counteroffensive expected before mid-June: Kyiv

Ukraine is unlikely to launch a counteroffensive in its war with Russia before mid-June, when it hopes to have received more weapons from its allies, an adviser to President Zelenskyy said.

Political adviser Oleksiy Arestovych also said he did not expect Russia’s offensive in Ukraine to produce any “significant results” by May 9, when Russia celebrates victory over Nazi Germany in World War II.

5 hours ago (10:08 GMT)

Russia expels seven Danish diplomats in retaliatory move

Russia’s foreign ministry says it has declared seven Danish diplomats “persona non grata” in response to Copenhagen expelling 15 Russian diplomats last month, with Moscow also objecting to Copenhagen’s military assistance to Ukraine.

The ministry said Denmark’s anti-Russian policy was seriously damaging bilateral relations and that Russia reserved the right to take additional steps in response.

5 hours ago (09:50 GMT)

Russia ‘trying to destroy’ last Ukrainian units in Azovstal: Kyiv

Ukraine says Russia is “trying to destroy” its remaining soldiers holed up in Mariupol’s Azovstal steel plant, with Kyiv’s last defenders in the battered city saying Moscow forces have broken into the giant factory.

“Russian occupiers are focusing on blocking and trying to destroy Ukrainian units in the Azovstal area,” Kyiv’s army said in a statement, adding: “With the support of aircraft, Russia resumed the offensive in order to take control of the plant.”

The statement came as a Russian-announced ceasefire was due to begin at the besieged plant, where hundreds of Ukrainian soldiers and some civilians have been trapped for weeks.

Smoke rises above from Azovstal Iron and Steel Works on May 3, 2022 File: Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/azovstal.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C509]

6 hours ago (09:24 GMT)

Gazprom says it will use Nord Stream 2 capacity for domestic gas supply

Russian energy giant Gazprom says it will use the onshore capacity of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline for domestic gas needs.

In February, Germany halted approvals for the Nord Stream 2 Baltic Sea gas pipeline project, which is designed to double the flow of Russian gas direct to Germany.

Pipes at landfall facilities of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline are in Lubmin, Germany [File: Michael Sohn/AP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/pipe.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C497]

6 hours ago (08:53 GMT)

Russia-Ukraine war: List of key events, day 71

As the Russia-Ukraine war enters its 71st day, we take a look at the main developments.

Read more here[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/5/russia-ukraine-war-list-of-key-events-day-71].

Click to view image[https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/INTERACTIVE_UKRAINE_CONTROL-MAP-DAY71_May-5-03-02.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C770]

7 hours ago (08:25 GMT)

French minister expects EU consensus on Russian oil ban by end of week

The French environment and energy minister, Barbara Pompili, says she is confident EU member states will reach a consensus on how to end Russian oil imports by the end of this week.

“Some countries are more dependent on Russian oil than others, and so we must try to find solutions so that they can come on board these sanctions,” she told France Info radio. “But I think we should be able to do it.”

France has this week hosted an emergency meeting of EU energy ministers to discuss how to deal with Moscow’s decision to halt gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland for not paying in roubles.

Pompili acknowledges some countries are more dependent on Russian oil [Gonzalo Fuentes/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/2022-04-28T101135Z_114260197_RC2AWT924QQM_RTRMADP_3_FRANCE-POLITICS.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C513]

7 hours ago (07:57 GMT)

Russia says it killed over 600 Ukrainian fighters

Russia’s defence ministry says its artillery struck multiple Ukrainian positions and strongholds overnight, killing 600 fighters.

The statement also said its missiles destroyed aviation equipment at the Kanatovo airfield in Ukraine’s central Kirovohrad region and a large ammunition depot in the southern city of Mykolaiv.

7 hours ago (07:37 GMT)

Two Russian villages shelled by Ukraine: governor

Two villages in Russia’s Belgorod region bordering Ukraine have been shelled by Ukraine, according to Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov, who added that there were no civilian casualties.

“There is shelling from the Ukrainian side on Zhuravlyovka and Nekhoteevka,” he said.

8 hours ago (06:59 GMT)

Russia ‘stole’ 400,000 tonnes of grain: Ukraine’s defence ministry

Ukraine’s defence ministry says Russia’s occupying forces have “stolen” 400,000 tonnes of grain from the south of the country. The message on the ministry’s Twitter account appeared next to images of burned-out grain fields.

“At least 400,000 tons of grain were stolen by russia [sic] in the occupied south of Ukraine. That’s over 6,000 hoppers. russian thieves are bringing death and famine to the world,” the ministry wrote on Twitter.

9 hours ago (06:06 GMT)

More than 220 children have died in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine: Ombudsman

Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 221 children have died, and 408 have been injured, Ukraine’s ombudsman for human rights has said.

“It is not possible to establish the actual number of dead and wounded children due to the fact that the occupying forces are actively fighting in Ukrainian cities,” Lyudmyla Denisova wrote on Telegram.

9 hours ago (05:28 GMT)

Russia may use Belarus military exercises as decoy: UK

Russia may try to inflate the threat that Belarusian military exercises pose to Ukraine in order to get Ukraine’s forces to move to the north of the country and away from fighting in the Donbas, the UK’s defence ministry says.

In its latest intelligence briefing, the ministry said that the sudden exercises of the Belarusian army are “in line with seasonal norms” as Belarus enters the culmination of its winter training cycle.

“Deviation from normal exercise activity that could pose a threat to allies and partners is not currently anticipated,” the ministry added.

10 hours ago (05:17 GMT)

Shelling kills five in Luhansk: Governor

Russian shelling killed five civilians in the Luhansk region in the past 24 hours, Governor Serhiy Haidai has said.

Haidai said the shelling focused on Severodonetsk and Popasna, Hirske and Lysychansk.

10 hours ago (05:04 GMT)

Japan says difficult to immediately follow Russia oil embargo

Japan would face “difficulty” immediately following a move to cut off Russian oil imports over the invasion of Ukraine, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Koichi Hagiuda has said.

Hagiuda made the remark during a visit to Washington, DC, after the EU proposed a new round of sanctions that included an oil embargo.

US President Joe Biden said he would discuss further sanctions against Russia with other leaders from the G7 this week, which could pressure Japan which is wary of the effect of the oil embargo.

“Given Japan has its limit on resources, we would face some difficulty to keep in step immediately” with other countries, Hagiuda told reporters.

10 hours ago (05:01 GMT)

Shelling hits centre of Kramatorsk, wounds six: Mayor

Shelling in residential areas of the centre of Kramatorsk damaged several multi-storey buildings, a school and a kindergarten, the city’s mayor has said.

At least six people were wounded in the attacks, Alexander Goncharenko wrote on Facebook.

Debris covers the inside of the Donetsk Academic Regional Drama Theatre following a March 16, 2022, bombing in Mariupol, Ukraine, in an area now controlled by Russian forces, Monday, April 4, 2022 [Alexei Alexandrov/AP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/theatre.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C513]

10 hours ago (04:44 GMT)

Russia lost control over settlements on Mykolaiv and Kherson border: Army

Russian forces lost control over several settlements on the border of the Mykolaiv and Kherson regions due to “successful actions of Ukrainian defenders”, the Ukrainian army has said.

The latest update from the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said that over the past day, the Russian military continued to shell the city of Kharkiv and the area north of the city of Izium.

The Russian army have also been trying to conduct offensive operations in Lyman, Severodonetsk and Popasna, but have been unsuccessful, the general staff said on Facebook.

“In the Mariupol area, Russian occupiers are focusing their efforts on blocking and trying to destroy Ukrainians’ units in the Azovstal area. With the support of aircraft, the enemy resumed the offensive in order to take control of the plant,” the statement added.

11 hours ago (04:13 GMT)

EU targets Russian Patriarch Kirill in new proposed sanctions: Diplomat

The European Commission has proposed freezing the assets of Patriarch Kirill, head of the Russian Orthodox Church, a diplomat has said.

The Patriarch has been added to a draft blacklist that includes hundreds of military officers and business people close to the Kremlin whom the EU accuses of supporting the war in Ukraine, the Reuters news agency reported.

The sanction, which would entail an asset freeze and a travel ban, needs the backing of EU states to be adopted. Members will meet later this week to discuss the EU’s sixth package of sanctions against Russia announced on Wednesday, which includes an oil embargo.

Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia conducts a service to consecrate the renovated Cathedral of the Nativity of the Blessed Mother of God in Rostov-on-Don, Russia, October 27, 2019 [Sergey Pivovarov/File Photo/REUTERS][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Kirill.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C505]

12 hours ago (03:03 GMT)

The Ukrainian refugees who made it to Australia

On the day Russia invaded Ukraine[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/24/russia-putin-shatters-peace-europe-ukraine-invasion], 12-year-old Anastasiia was woken by two cruise missiles over the top of her house.

“They were like fighter jets,” she remembered.

Anastasiia is one of the thousands of Ukrainian refugees who have sought refuge in Australia since Russia invaded their country on February 24.

Al Jazeera spoke to Anastasiia and two other Ukrainian refugees about their perilous journey to a country nearly 15,000km (9,300 miles) away.

Read more here[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/5/the-ukrainian-refugees-who-made-it-to-australia].

13 hours ago (02:16 GMT)

Zelenskyy asks for prolonged truce to rescue Azovstal civilians

Zelenskyy has said that “we need to continue the silence” to rescue the others still trapped in the Azovstal steel plant.

“We are negotiating and hope to continue rescuing people from Azovstal, from Mariupol. There are still civilians. Women, children,” he said in his nighttime address.

“To save them, we need to continue the silence. The Ukrainian side is ready to provide it. It takes time to just lift people out of those basements, out of those underground shelters. In the current conditions, we cannot use special equipment to clear the debris. Everything is done manually,” he added.

Ukrainian officials say some 200 civilians as well as Ukrainian fighters are still holed up in the plant’s network of underground bunkers.

13 hours ago (01:57 GMT)

US intelligence helped Ukraine kill Russian generals: NYT

The US provided Ukraine with intelligence that allowed its troops to target and kill many of the Russian generals who have died in the current war, the New York Times has reported, citing senior American officials.

“The targeting help is part of a classified effort by the Biden administration to provide real-time battlefield intelligence to Ukraine,” the NYT reported the officials as having said.

The report said that the US provided Ukraine with location and other details about the Russian military’s headquarters, which are frequently relocated, and that Ukraine combined this with its own intelligence, which included intercepted conversations, which helped locate senior Russian officers. Then Ukraine conducted strikes and other attacks on these locations.

Ukrainian officials have said they have killed around 12 generals on the front lines – a very high number, according to many military analysts.

13 hours ago (01:43 GMT)

Stanislav Shushkevich, first leader of independent Belarus, dies in Minsk

Stanislav Shushkevich, the first leader of independent Belarus following the collapse of the Soviet Union, has died at 87, after being hospitalised for COVID-19.

Shushkevich was one of three leaders including Russia’s Boris Yeltsin and Ukraine’s Leonid Kravchuk who in 1991 signed an agreement effectively dissolving the Soviet Union. They formed a Commonwealth of Independent States and Shushkevich, a nuclear physicist before entering politics, led independent Belarus for less than three years before he was overthrown by Lukashenko.

He was well regarded by the US, particularly for his commitment to ridding Belarus of the nuclear weapons from the Soviet era that remained on its soil. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he was saddened to learn of Shushkevich’s death. “Our thoughts are with his loved ones and the people of Belarus, who carry on the struggle for a democratic, prosperous, and peaceful #FreeBelarus,” Blinken wrote in a tweet.

14 hours ago (01:22 GMT)

Air alert sirens blare across Ukraine

Air alert sirens have been activated throughout every region and most cities of Ukraine overnight.

“Everyone is in hiding: an air alert has been declared throughout Ukraine,” the country’s Channel 24 wrote on Twitter.

“Note that in the Luhansk region the alarm has been going on continuously since April 4. Currently, sirens are not heard only in the Kherson region,” Channel 24 said in an article.

14 hours ago (00:59 GMT)

Russia may hope to capture Azovstal by May 9: Think-tank

Russian forces reportedly entered the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, rather than its outskirts, for the first time on Wednesday, the Institute for the Study of War (ISW) has said.

“The extent of this Russian advance remains unclear, and Russian forces likely face further costly fighting if they intend to clear the entire facility,” the ISW wrote in its latest assessment on Russia’s offensive.

It added that the “Kremlin likely hopes” to capture Azovstal to “cement the Kremlin’s growing effort to claim complete control of Mariupol by May 9”, which is the date Russia celebrates its victory over Nazi Germany.

14 hours ago (00:48 GMT)

Russia boycotts Security Council meeting due to ‘Russophobic policy’

Russia refused to participate in Wednesday’s informal meeting of the UN Security Council with the EU because of the bloc’s “hostile and Russophobic policy”, Russia’s representative to the UN has said.

Dmitry Polyansky wrote on Telegram that the EU policy was “actively trying to extinguish the fire of the Ukrainian crisis by pouring gasoline on it”, adding that there was no other explanation for the “open warmongering” by the EU leadership.

The Security Council’s annual meeting with the EU’s Political and Security Committee on Wednesday is the first since 2019 due to the pandemic.

UK sending Ukraine £45 million for humanitarian aid, more medical supplies

Britain’s foreign secretary has announced £45 million ($56 million) in funding for agencies and charities doing humanitarian work on the ground in Ukraine and its borders.

“Of the £45 million, £15 million will go to the UN Ukraine Humanitarian Fund, to provide immediate life-saving assistance and help tackle sexual and gender-based violence through targeted services, legal support and crisis accommodation,” a statement from Liz Truss’s office said.

A further £15m will go to UNICEF to fund services like nutrition for pregnant women and mental health support for children.

Truss also announced further deliveries of medical supplies, including wound care packs to treat more than 220,000 patients and about 380,000 packs of medicine.

Children from Ukraine sleep on luggage at a railway station in Przemysl, southeastern Poland, on Wednesday, March 23, 2022 [Sergei Grits/AP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Poland.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C513]

15 hours ago (23:53 GMT)

Zelenskyy pays tribute to killed Ukrainian journalist

Zelenskyy started his latest nighttime address by remembering Ukrainian journalist and TV reporter, Oleksandr Makhov, who he said died on Wednesday in the Kharkiv region, “in the battles near Izium”.

“He was always among the bravest, among the first. He always worked in the hottest spots. Tried to bring true material. From the first day of the full-scale war, he was on the front line,” Zelenskyy said

“He was 36 years old. My sincere condolences to relatives and friends. Let his son Vladyslav know: Russia will bear responsibility for this death,” he said, adding that Ukraine will win and make Oleksandr’s dream come true.

15 hours ago (23:38 GMT)

UK’s Johnson to host Japanese PM for Ukraine talks

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will host his Japanese counterpart for talks to focus on Ukraine and countries affected by Russia’s invasion.

Meetings between Johnson and Fumio Kishida tomorrow are expected to focus on “how international alliances can continue to exert maximum pressure on President Putin’s regime while supporting Ukraine and other European countries affected,” a government statement said.

They will also agree to closer collaboration to help countries in Asia develop renewables, “supporting their transition to green energy and helping to provide alternative supplies to Russian oil and gas”.

The statement added the two will agree in principle to a reciprocal access agreement to allow Japanese and British forces to “work, exercise and operate together”.

16 hours ago (22:52 GMT)

Further sanctions likely if Russia continues war, says US treasury secretary

US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has said the US is in constant discussions with its partners about further sanctions and could impose “additional actions” to pressure Moscow.

At a Wall Street Journal conference, Yellen would not preview any specific actions under consideration but stressed that further measures were likely “if Russia continues this war against Ukraine”.

Yellen said she believed Western sanctions so far had taken an enormous toll on the Russian economy, curtailing foreign investment and preventing it from accessing goods it needs to compete in the global economy over the long term.

16 hours ago (22:45 GMT)

More than 300 civilians evacuated from southern Ukraine: UN

More than 300 civilians were evacuated from Mariupol and other areas in southern Ukraine as part of a joint UN-Red Cross operation that concluded on Wednesday, UN humanitarian coordinator for Ukraine Osnat Lubrani has said.

“While this second evacuation of civilians from areas in Mariupol and beyond is significant, much more must be done to make sure all civilians caught up in fighting can leave, in the direction they wish,” Lubrani said.

Women board a bus during an evacuation of civilians on a road near Slovyansk, eastern Ukraine, Wednesday, May 4, 2022[Andriy Andriyenko/AP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/bus.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C513]

16 hours ago (22:30 GMT)

Ukraine accuses Russia of ‘missile terrorism’

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has accused Russia of “missile terrorism” as authorities said Russian forces bombarded cities across Ukraine.

Attacks were reported near Kyiv; in Cherkasy and Dnipro in central Ukraine, and in Zaporizhzhia in the southeast. In Dnipro, authorities said a rail facility was hit.

17 hours ago (22:11 GMT)

Zelenskyy says he spoke to Israeli PM about ‘scandalous’ Russian remarks

Zelenskyy has said he spoke to Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and discussed the “scandalous and completely unacceptable remarks[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/3/russia-says-israel-supports-neo-nazis-in-row-over-ukraine]” by Russia’s foreign minister about Adolf Hitler.

In an early morning video address, Zelenskyy said the comments by Sergey Lavrov had outraged the entire world.

In an interview on Sunday, Lavrov said the Nazi dictator had had Jewish origins, a comment that Israeli foreign minister Yair Lapid called an “unforgivable” falsehood.

17 hours ago (21:47 GMT)

Russia ‘already lost the war’, White House says

White House press secretary Jen Psaki has said that Russia “already lost the war in Ukraine”.

Pressed by a reporter to define what victory looked like for Ukraine, Psaki instead said Russian President Vladimir Putin had failed in his own objectives by invading the neighbouring country.

“He wanted this to be a moment to divide NATO, to divide the west,” Psaki said. “Clearly that is not what is happening.”

18 hours ago (21:21 GMT)

Sweden says it received US assurances should it seek to join NATO

Sweden has received assurances from the US that it would get support during the processing period for its potential application to join NATO, foreign minister Ann Linde has said.

Sweden and its neighbour Finland stayed out of NATO during the Cold War, but Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 and its invasion of Ukraine have led the countries to rethink their security policies[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/4/15/why-finland-and-sweden-will-likely-join-nato], with NATO membership looking increasingly likely.

“Naturally, I’m not going to go into any details, but I feel very sure that now we have an American assurance,” Linde told Swedish TV from Washington after meeting US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.

18 hours ago (21:01 GMT)

Russian strikes in western Ukraine aimed at critical infrastructure: Pentagon

Pentagon spokesman John Kirby has said recent Russian strikes in western Ukraine were aimed at critical infrastructure sites.

“They are attempting to hit what we assess to be critical infrastructure targets out towards the west – electrical power, transportation hubs, that kind of thing. We think this is an effort to try to disrupt the Ukrainians’ ability to replenish and reinforce themselves,” Kirby told reporters.

“Particularly these most recent strikes, we are still assessing the degree to which they hit what they were targeting. They are not good at precision strikes. They are not discriminant with how they target.”

18 hours ago (20:53 GMT)

Far-right Azov regiment says Ukrainians fighting ‘bloody battles’ in Mariupol

Ukrainian forces inside Mariupol’s Azovstal steel plant are fighting “difficult bloody battles” against Russian troops for a second day, after they broke into the territory of the plant, the commander of the far-right Azov regiment has said.

“I am proud of my soldiers who are making superhuman efforts to contain the pressure of the enemy … The situation is extremely difficult,” commander Denis Prokopenko said in a brief video message released on Telegram.

18 hours ago (20:50 GMT)

Russia meeting ‘stiff’ resistance in eastern Ukraine, US says

The Russian military has not been able to advance as far into the Donbas region of Ukraine as planned due to Ukrainian resistance, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby has said.

“Russians have not made the kind of progress in the Donbas and in the south that we believe they wanted to make. And we do believe it’s been slow. And at every turn they have met a stiff Ukrainian resistance,” Kirby told a media briefing at the Pentagon.

“What we’re focused on is making sure that resistance remains as stiff as possible.”

18 hours ago (20:42 GMT)

Russia says it will halt fighting at Mariupol plant for civilian evacuation

Russia has said its forces would halt hostilities at the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol and open a humanitarian corridor for civilians for three days beginning on Thursday.

“The Russian armed forces will from 8am to 6pm [Moscow time] on May 5, 6 and 7 open a humanitarian corridor from the territory of the Azovstal metallurgical plant to evacuate civilians,” the defence ministry said.

18 hours ago (20:39 GMT)

Zelenskyy asks UN chief for help to save people in Azovstal steel plant

Zelenskyy has asked UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for help saving people trapped in the Azovstal steel works in Mariupol, his office said in a statement.

“The lives of the people who remain there are in danger. Everyone is important to us. We ask for your help in saving them,” the statement quoted Zelenskyy as saying.

Welcome to Al Jazeera’s continuing coverage of the war in Ukraine.

Read the updates from Wednesday, May 4[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/5/3/us-helping-ensure-russia-strategic-failure-in-ukraine-biden-says-liveblog].

Smoke rises above a plant of Azovstal Iron and Steel Works in Mariupol [File: Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/2022-04-26T005134Z_2062570267_RC2EUT9BJ20Q_RTRMADP_3_UKRAINE-CRISIS-MARIUPOL.jpg]

Al Jazeera International

文件 AJAZEN0020220505ei54001v4


EMEA Morning Briefing: Traders Await Likely Half-Point Fed Rate Hike
1946 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 04:01 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Eurozone, Germany, France, Italy Services PMI; Eurozone Retail Sales; Germany Foreign Trade; UK BOE Effective Interest Rates, Money and Credit; OECD CPI; U.S. interest rate decision; updates from Naturgy Energy, Solvay, Siemens Healthineers , Hannover Ruck, Hugo Boss, Fresenius, Volkswagen , Fresenius Medical Care , Ferrari, Enel , Telecom Italia , Geberit , EDF, Traton, Airbus , Allianz , Hannover Ruck, Kloeckner, Lenzing , Equinor , Pandora, Maersk , Novo Nordisk , SEB, Flutter Entertainment , Direct Line, Barclays , Ryanair , Wolters Kluwer , MTN, Anglo American , Unilever , GlaxoSmithKline , Ocado , H&M

Opening Call:

Europe is primed for a cautious opening session as investors remain anxious ahead of likely accelerated Fed tightening. In Asia, stocks were lower across the board; the dollar and Treasury yields were near-flat; oil recovered some losses; and gold weakened.

Equities:

European stock index futures were little changed heading into Wednesday's opening session, with investors looking ahead to what's expected to be the most aggressive Federal Reserve monetary policy tightening in two decades.

Major U.S. benchmarks ended Tuesday with modest gains after a choppy session of trade.

The market is in a "tug-of-war between those who think the Fed will have to tighten a lot and kill the economy" versus those who believe the Fed won't have to do as much as what's already "priced in" for this year, said Brent Schutte , chief investment officer at Northwestern Mutual Wealth Management.

Schutte, who expects the Fed will announce on Wednesday that it's raising its benchmark interest rate by 50 basis points, said that "financial conditions are already becoming more restrictive" as the market has already priced in "a substantial amount of tightening" by the central bank this year. "I'm in the camp that believes the Fed won't have to tighten as much as what the markets currently have priced in," he said.

Economic Insight:

Fitch has cut its GDP growth forecast for China to 4.3% from 4.8% for 2022, on the assumption that Beijing's strict stance on Covid-19 will remain in place this year. Fitch expects an on-quarter GDP contraction in the second quarter, as mobility trends suggest China's growth momentum worsened significantly in April.

"Our forecast remains subject to downside risk if containment measures fail to bring new outbreaks under control quickly or if the easing of current restrictions is delayed."

Monetary easing looks to be modest, given authorities are cautious that rising interest-rate differentials could spark capital outflows.

---

Citi has raised its eurozone inflation forecasts, taking into account the very strong producer prices index published Tuesday and government interventions to tame energy prices.

Eurozone PPI rose 36.8% on year in March and shows upstream pressures in food-and-consumer-goods pricing chains continued to build at an unprecedented pace, Citi 's economists said. Citi observes a higher-than-usual pass-through of producer prices into consumer prices.

"We explain this by the broad-based increase in cost pressures, which make businesses unable to accommodate yet higher input costs into their margins." Following this revision, Citi sees eurozone inflation peaking at 8.5% on year in September, and not falling below 2% before the end of 2023 at the earliest.

Forex:

The dollar was little changed in Asia, with markets generally on hold ahead of the FOMC decision.

Based on the aggressive market pricing for the Fed Funds rate, there is a small risk the FOMC will be perceived as not being hawkish enough, pulling down U.S. interest rates and the dollar modestly, said Joseph Capurso , head of international economics at CBA . He said the U.S. currency is likely to trade in a tight range ahead of decision.

Bonds:

The 10-year Treasury yield nudged higher in Asia but remained below the 3% level.

Most Treasury yields drifted lower Tuesday, with the exception of the 2-year rate, which continued to climb on expectations for the Fed's near-term policy moves. The rise in the 2-year rate led to a shrinking spread against the 10-year yield, a possible sign of worries about the economic outlook.

"Continued Fed hawkishness-both an increasing embrace of 50bp moves and renewed focus on QT-have helped to push real and nominal yields to new highs," said Goldman Sachs .

Energy:

Oil prices have recovered some of Tuesday's losses as investors continue to weigh the prospects for a European embargo of Russian crude against a weaker demand outlook due to China's Covid-19 related lockdowns.

An oil embargo "may seem simple, but the details are complicated and likely to cause problems figuring out how to wean off Russian oil without causing a massive oil price spike," said Stephen Innes, managing partner, SPI Asset Management.

Other News:

The European Union proposed a phased-in embargo on Russian oil imports, the delisting of more Russian banks from the Swift payment messaging system and fresh sanctions targeted at people spreading disinformation on Russia's war in Ukraine, EU officials said Tuesday.

The centerpiece of the package is a proposal that the bloc's member states stop importing Russian crude oil within six months and purchase no more Russian refined oil products by the end of the year, according to two officials familiar with the details.

Read more here.

Metals:

Gold futures weakened in Asia with OANDA predicting they may sell off if stock markets start to stabilize. For gold to become attractive again, Wall Street will need to become confident that the majority of Fed tightening has been priced in.

Gold ended modestly higher Tuesday as a rise in Treasury yields and the dollar eased.

---

Aluminum prices weakened on concerns over demand with China the central worry.

China accounts for 40%-60% of base-metal demand, 70%-75% of the world's iron ore imports and 15%-16% of global oil consumption, CBA said. Also, the recent surprise drop in the U.S. ISM manufacturing index spurred concerns that U.S. manufacturing demand may be slowing.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Europe Moves to Sanction Russia Again, Closing In on Oil Embargo

The European Union proposed a phased-in embargo on Russian oil imports, the delisting of more Russian banks from the Swift payment messaging system and fresh sanctions targeted at people spreading disinformation on Russia's war in Ukraine, EU officials said Tuesday.

The EU 's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on Tuesday became the first EU official to set out the key parts of a new sixth sanctions package against Russia drawn up by the EU 's executive body, the European Commission . The proposals were circulated to member states late Tuesday evening.

   
 
 
Biden Officials Divided Over Easing China Tariffs to Slow Inflation

WASHINGTON-The Biden administration is split on whether to pare back tariffs on imports from China in an effort to cut consumer costs and reduce inflation, as the White House gives renewed consideration to a step that has divided officials.

On one side of the debate within the administration are Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo , who favor easing the tariffs on some of the roughly $360 billion annually of Chinese imports put in place under the Trump administration, according to people familiar with the matter.

   
 
 
Stocks and Bonds Are Falling in Lockstep at Pace Unseen in Decades

Stocks and bonds are falling in tandem at a pace not seen in decades, leaving investors with few places to hide from the market volatility.

Through Monday, the S&P 500 was down 13% for 2022 and the Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate bond index-largely U.S. Treasurys, highly rated corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities-was off 10%. That puts them on track for their biggest simultaneous drop in Dow Jones Market Data going back to 1976. The only other time both indexes dropped for the year was in 1994, when the bond index declined 2.9% and the S&P 500 fell 1.5%.

   
 
 
China's Covid-19 Outbreak Cools Metals Rally

The pandemic's resurgence in China has helped pull metals prices down from highs hit following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Worries that new economic lockdowns will erode demand from the world's largest commodity consumer have dragged aluminum and tin down more than 17% from their recent all-time highs. Copper, vital to everything from construction to electronics, has lost 12% since its March record, while zinc and lead are off 12% and 11% from this year's highs, respectively.

   
 
 
Zelensky Says Companies Are Supporting Russia's 'War Machine' if They Stay There

Global companies have a critical role to play in isolating Russia and helping Ukraine restore its economy, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Tuesday, addressing The Wall Street Journal's CEO Council Summit in London.

   
 
 
Elon Musk Plans to Take Twitter Public a Few Years After Buyout

Elon Musk , who has agreed to take Twitter Inc . private in a $44 billion deal, has told potential investors he could return the social-media company to public ownership after just a few years.

Mr. Musk said he plans to stage an initial public offering of Twitter in as little as three years of buying it, according to people familiar with the matter. The deal is expected to close later this year, subject to conditions including the approval of Twitter shareholders and regulators, the company has said.

   
 
 
Facebook 's E-Commerce Bet Stumbles as Meta Looks to Revamp Its Ads Business

Facebook parent Meta Platforms Inc . developed e-commerce services in 2020 as people shopped more from home and the company faced a changing digital ad market. Two years later, employees, former executives and retailers say the division remains a work in progress.

4 May 2022 00:01 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Traders Await Likely -2-

Some retailers say they are frustrated by Meta 's e-commerce rollout, noting that the service is missing basic components such as the ability to display products in different colors and sizes if they aren't sold directly through Facebook and Instagram , limit where a merchant can ship items and provide next-day or same-day deliveries. Other stores, though, see the promise of connecting with shoppers through the large user bases of Facebook and Instagram .

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Wednesday

06:00/DEN: 1Q Consumer credit

06:00/ROM: Mar Retail trade

06:00/GER: Mar Foreign Trade

07:00/CZE: 1Q LFSS Employment & Unemployment

07:00/SPN: Apr Unemployment

07:00/HUN: Mar Retail Sales

07:00/SVK: Mar Internal trade, incl Wholesale & Retail

07:15/SPN: Apr Spain Services PMI

07:45/ITA: Apr Italy Services PMI

07:50/FRA: Apr France Services PMI

07:55/GER: Apr Germany Services PMI

08:00/EU: Apr Eurozone Services PMI

08:30/UK: Mar Bank of England effective interest rates

08:30/UK: Mar Money and Credit - Lending to Individuals, Lending to Businesses, Broad Money and Credit

08:30/UK: Mar Monetary & Financial Statistics

09:00/LUX: Apr CPI

09:00/EU: Mar Retail trade

09:00/CYP: Apr Registered Unemployed

10:00/FRA: Mar OECD CPI

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 04, 2022 00:01 ET (04:01 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220504ei5400083


Live updates: Spain arrests Ukrainian politician-blogger
4400 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
MADRID — Spanish authorities have arrested a Ukrainian politician-blogger accused of treason in his home country.

An official with the Spanish national police confirmed that Anatoly Shariy had been detained Wednesday in Tarragona under an international arrest warrant. Shariy is being transported to Madrid to appear before a judge, who will decide upon his extradition, the official said.

Ukraine’s security services announced the arrest on Thursday and said there was reason to believe Shariy “was acting on behalf of foreign entities.”

Shariy has been a vocal and active critic of Ukraine’s government. As recently as Tuesday he tweeted that he had been warned that Ukrainian intelligence was trying to track him down. He is the founder of a political party that many Ukrainians consider pro-Russian.

Ukrainian media reported that one of the members of the party said in February, just before the start of the war, that Shariy had asylum in the European Union.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — Danish Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said Thursday that Russia has decided to expel four diplomats with Denmark’s Embassy in Moscow.

“They have wrongfully become pieces in Putin’s cynical power play,” Kofod said. “It is a completely unjustified and deeply problematic decision, which underscores that Russia no longer wants real dialogue and diplomacy.”

Moscow said seven Danish diplomats were expelled. Danish media said that those expelled include four diplomats and three others without diplomatic status. They must leave within two weeks.

Moscow’s tit-for-tat decision came after Denmark last month expelled 15 Russian intelligence officers who worked at Russia’s Embassy in Copenhagen. Several other European countries also expelled Russian intelligence officers.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — In anticipation of a European Union embargo on Russian crude oil Bulgaria says it's looking for an exemption due to its dependence on supplies from Russia.

Bulgaria's only oil refinery near the Black Sea port of Burgas is owned by Russia’s oil giant LUKOIL and is the main fuel supplier in the country.

Still, Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev told reporters that the refinery is already processing up to 50% non-Russian crude and theoretically should be able to fully eliminate Russian crude.

“Bulgaria, technologically, can do without Russian crude oil, but this would significantly increase fuel prices,” Vassilev said. “In case the European Commission weighs some exemptions, we would like to take advantage of it, because it will be in the best interest of Bulgarian consumers.”

Slovakia and Hungary have already asked for such exemptions.

Russia stopped gas deliveries to Bulgaria last week in response to Sofia’s refusal to pay for it in rubles saying it violates existing contracts.

___

NICOSIA, Cyprus - The prime minister of Luxembourg says the European Union should carefully weigh a total embargo on all Russian oil gas imports given that some member nations “have no alternative” supply for energy generation.

Prime Minister Xavier Bettel said after talks Thursday with the President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades that “just to say no to the gas today when we know that some countries then will have no alternative tomorrow is something we should put on the balance.”

What’s paramount at this time is to maintain EU solidarity and for all 27 members to find ways of becoming energy self-sufficient and less dependent on energy from third countries, Bettel said.

He said one option is solar energy, referring to the east Mediterranean island nation’s potential to generate much more than Luxembourg.

Anastasiades said the war in Ukraine has refocused attention on discovered and potential natural gas reserves found in east Mediterranean waters off Cyprus and elsewhere as an alternative source of energy for Europe.

On Wednesday, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called on the EU member states to ban oil imports from Russia and target the country’s biggest bank and major broadcasters in a sixth package of sanctions over the war in Ukraine.

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland and Sweden are co-hosting an international donors’ conference on Thursday in Warsaw to raise funds for humanitarian efforts to help war-torn Ukraine, where thousands have been killed, cities devastated and millions of people displaced by Russia’s attack.

Poland’s government says that Ukraine’s needs are huge despite funds already donated due to the large scale of damage from the war, and that millions of Ukrainians require urgent help.

The High-Level International Donors’ Conference for Ukraine is jointly organized by the Polish and Swedish prime ministers in collaboration with the European Commission and European Council presidents.

The aims are to allow the international community to announce new pledges to meet the immediate humanitarian needs of Ukrainian society and to create a forum to discuss how to support Ukrainian society over the longer term.

The co-hosts are prime ministers Mateusz Morawiecki of Poland and Magdalena Andersson of Sweden.

Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is expected to address the participants by video, who are gathering in Warsaw’s National Stadium.

___

PARIS — France’s ecology minister says she is confident that the European Union’s 27 nations will quickly agree to a proposed ban on oil imports from Russia.

Speaking to FranceInfo radio Thursday, the minister, Barbara Pompili, said the embargo could be agreed upon within days.

“I am confident,” she said. “It is normal that there are discussions because some countries are more dependent than others on Russian oil, so we have to try to find solutions so they can get on board with these sanctions.”

She added: “I think we’ll get there perhaps by the end of the week or at least as soon as possible.”

The European Union’s top official, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, proposed Wednesday that EU member nations phase out imports of Russian crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year.

The proposals must be unanimously approved to take effect. Von der Leyen said that getting all 27 member countries — some of them landlocked and highly dependent on Russia for energy supplies — to agree on oil sanctions “will not be easy.”

Pompili said the embargo would be “for everyone” in the bloc and that “is to show Russia that Europe, from the end of this year, will completely do without its oil.”

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Five people were killed and at least 25 more wounded in eastern Ukraine over the past 24 hours because of the Russian shelling, Ukrainian officials said Thursday.

Luhansk regional governor Serhiy Haidai said the Russian troops shelled the region 24 times on Wednesday, hitting the cities of Severodonetsk, Lysychansk, Girske and Popasna, damaging at least 23 houses and killing five people.

An overnight shelling of Kramatorsk in the Donetsk region wounded at least 25 people, Donetsk governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said Thursday. He added that nine houses, a school and other civilian infrastructure were damaged as the result.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s General Staff says the country’s forces made some gains on the border of the southern regions of Kherson and Mykolaiv and repelled multiple Russian attacks in the east.

In its daily morning update, the General Staff said that the Russians “lost control over several settlements on the border of Mykolayiv and Kherson regions.” Ukrainian forces also repelled 11 attacks in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, the update said.

At the same time, fighting over the Azovstal plant in Mariupol continued, the General Staff said.

“With the support of aircraft, the enemy resumed the offensive in order to take control of the plant,” the update said, adding that the Russian troops were “trying to destroy Ukrainians units” at this last remaining pocket of Ukrainian resistance in the ravaged port city.

The General Staff also noted Russian efforts to stir tensions in the Moscow-backed breakaway region of Transnistria in Moldova, which borders with Ukraine and has a Russian peacekeeping contingent. The Russian military “carries out regrouping of troops in certain areas, takes measures to replenish reserves” and is “trying to improve the tactical position of its units.”

The General Staff’s statements could not be independently verified.

___

LVIV, Ukraine — The British military is saying an ongoing military drill in Belarus “is not currently anticipated” to threaten Ukraine.

The British Defense Ministry made the statement Thursday in a daily intelligence briefing posted to Twitter.

It comes after Belarus announced snap military drills. That sparked suspicion in Ukraine as Russia used Belarus to funnel troops through at the start of the war in February before Ukrainian forces repelled an advance targeting the capital, Kyiv.

“Russia will likely seek to inflate the threat posed to Ukraine by these exercises in order to fix Ukrainian forces in the north, preventing them from being committed to the battle for the Donbas,” the British military said.

It added: “Deviation from normal exercise activity that could pose a threat to allies and partners is not currently anticipated.”

The United Nations says more than 300 civilians from the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol and four other towns have been evacuated to Ukrainian-held Zaporizhzhia in a second successful operation to get civilians out of areas subject to Russian shelling and attacks.

Osnat Lubrani, the U.N. humanitarian chief in Ukraine, said in a statement that many of the civilians from Mariupol, Manhush, Berdiansk, Tokmak and Vasylivka came Wednesday with nothing but the clothes they were wearing and are now getting humanitarian assistance. She said they'll also receive “much- needed psychological support.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the 344 evacuated Wednesday are in addition to the more than 150 people who were evacuated earlier this week from the bunkers under the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, which is surrounded by Russian troops and reportedly came under renewed fire on Wednesday.

No civilians were reported evacuated from the plant on Wednesday. Zelenskyy said they are trying to reach an agreement to save those remaining at Azovstal, including women and children.

___

The commander of the main defending force at the Azovstal steel mill in the strategic Ukrainian port city of Mariupol says Russian troops have broken into the territory of the mill, where limited evacuations of besieged civilians occurred last week.

The Russian government, meanwhile, pledged to facilitate humanitarian corridors from Thursday through Saturday to enable more evacuations.

In a video posted Wednesday, Denys Prokopenko, commander of the Ukrainian Azov regiment, said the incursions had continued a second day “and there are heavy, bloody battles.”

Azovstal remains one of the biggest hubs of Ukrainian military resistance and has been subjected to massive Russian aerial bombardments and shelling. Russian State TV showed smoke rising over Azovstal.

Hundreds of Ukrainian forces from different parts of the army, as well as civilians, remain in the plant’s underground shelters.

___

Sweden’s foreign minister says the United States is willing to provide “security assurances” during the application period if Sweden and neighboring Finland seek membership in NATO.

Ann Linde spoke to Swedish public broadcaster SVT on Wednesday from Washington after meetings with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.

Linde said there is great interest from the U.S. in Sweden and Finland joining NATO.

Jolted by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Sweden and Finland appear ready to revoke their long-standing policy of military non-alignment and apply for NATO membership.

Russia has warned of unspecified consequences if that happens and both countries have been looking for some form of NATO protection from the moment they apply to when they become members, a process that can take months.

___

A Russian government statement said its armed forces and their allies would open a humanitarian corridor on specified hours from Thursday through Saturday from the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, Ukraine, so civilians can be evacuated.

The statement appeared on the Telegram messaging app Wednesday and pledged the forces would refrain from military actions, withdraw to a safe distance and facilitate the withdrawal of the civilians to any destination they choose.

But there was no immediate confirmation of those arrangements from other sources and similar promises to set up evacuation corridors have collapsed, because of what the Ukrainians blamed on continued fighting by Russians. A United Nations spokesman said discussions about future evacuations were ongoing.

___

Air raid sirens sounded in cities across Ukraine on Wednesday night and missile fire followed shortly after in the cities of Cherkasy, Dnipro and Zaporizhzhia.

In Dnipro, Mayor Borys Filatov said one strike hit the center of the city. The strikes in Dnipro also hit a railroad facility, authorities initially said, without elaborating. Ukrainian Railways said none of its staff were injured in the Dnipro attack.

Complaining that the West is “stuffing Ukraine with weapons,” Russia bombarded railroad stations and other supply-line points across the country. Meanwhile, the European Union moved to further punish Moscow for the war by proposing a ban on oil imports, a crucial source of revenue for Russia.

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says the sanctions imposed by his country and others against Moscow over its war in Ukraine will set back Russia’s economic development by decades if they remain in place.

Scholz told reporters in Berlin on Wednesday that Russia cannot hope to win a peace with Ukraine unless Kyiv supports it.

“A peace by diktat will not work,” he said.

___

In a video message posted on Twitter, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed the European Union’s decision to propose an embargo on Russian oil. He said Ukraine isn’t happy it will be delayed for several months, but “it’s better than nothing.”

Kuleba said it should be clear now “that times for half-sanctions or half-measures when it comes to sanctions is gone.” He says the EU can no longer support Ukraine on one hand by imposing sanctions, while continuing to pay Russia for oil and gas and support their “war machine.”

He also said if any country continues to oppose the embargo on Russian oil, it will be a reason to say the country is complicit in the crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

The proposals need unanimous approval from EU countries and are likely to be the subject of fierce debate. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they won’t take part in any oil sanctions. They could be granted an exemption.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary’s foreign minister says the country won’t support a European Union proposal for banning oil imports from Russia in a move that could derail the bloc’s efforts to apply united pressure against Moscow over its war in Ukraine.

In a video on social media, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Wednesday that Hungary’s energy supply “would be completely destroyed” by an EU embargo of Russian oil, which he said would make it “impossible for Hungary to obtain the oil necessary for the functioning of the Hungarian economy.”

Szijjarto’s statement came as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed that EU member nations phase out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year as part of a sixth package of sanctions against Russia.

The proposals must be unanimously approved to take effect, and reluctance by governments in Hungary and Slovakia to support sanctions against Russian fossil fuels has placed roadblocks before a united EU response.

Szijjarto said Hungary would only support the sixth round of sanctions if oil imports were exempted.

___

LONDON — Britain announced a further raft of sanctions against Russia, banning the country from doing business with management consultants, accounting and PR firms in the U.K.

The British government also imposed asset freezes and travel bans on journalists working for state-owned media and other broadcast organizations the U.K. accuses of spreading propaganda.

The sanctioned individuals include three journalists embedded with Russian forces in Ukraine: Evgeny Poddubny, Alexander Kots and Dmitry Steshin.

The British government said the new sanctions would mean social media, internet services and app stores must take action to block content from two of Russia’s major sources of alleged disinformation, RT and Sputnik. Both have been pulled from British airwaves.

Tech and Digital Economy Minister Chris Philp said RT and Sputnik “have churned out dangerous nonsense dressed up as serious news to justify Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.”

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Russian President Vladimir Putin has “completely miscalculated with his brutal war of aggression against Ukraine” because it has led NATO to strengthen its eastern flank, resulted in comprehensive sanctions against Russia, and prompted large-scale military support for the Ukrainian side.

Scholz said Wednesday that Germany is currently considering supplying Ukraine with howitzers, in addition to Gepard anti-aircraft guns and other equipment the government has already agreed to send.

He spoke to reporters in Meseberg, near Berlin, alongside German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, who announced plans to require that Russians who are subject to sanctions have to disclose their assets in Germany or risk fines.

Economy Minister Robert Habeck said the government is also planning to make it easier for Russians fleeing their home country to find work in Germany.

“We can really use them,” he said, but added that there would be security checks to ensure that “we don’t bring a lot of spies over here.” ___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria’s parliament has approved providing additional aid to war-torn Ukraine following a debate that had rattled the governing coalition.

The proposal, introduced by the centrist party of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, was supported by 200 legislators. Sixteen were against, one abstained, while 23 lawmakers were not present.

The vote took place after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sent a letter to the parliament in Sofia. Instead of weapons deliveries, he reportedly asked for damaged Ukrainian military equipment to be repaired at Bulgarian plants and then sent back.

While three of the parties in the four-party ruling coalition had been in favor of sending weapons and ammunition to Ukraine, the fourth party, the pro-Russian Socialists, threatened to quit the coalition if such aid were approved.

The decision also includes Bulgarian assistance for the export of Ukrainian grain via Bulgaria’s Black Sea ports, and Bulgaria importing electricity from Ukraine.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace reaffirmed his country’s strong support for Finland and Sweden potentially joining NATO.

Finland and Sweden are expected to announce next week whether to seek membership of the 30-nation alliance.

“I cannot conceive that we would not come to support,” Wallace told reporters. “We will do whatever we need to do.”

Wallace said Finland was “in a pole position” to join NATO and the British Parliament would be able to ratify a Finnish membership “quickly.”

Wallace on Wednesday observed a military exercise in western Finland involving troops from the United Kingdom, Latvia, the United States and Estonia.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says his country could not accept a deal with Moscow that would allow Russian troops to remain in occupied territory.

Speaking to participants in the Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces had halted the Russian offensive in what he described as the first stage of the conflict.

In the second stage, he said, Ukraine would expel Russian troops from its territory and in the third, would move to fully restore its territorial integrity.

Zelenskyy said he would not accept a cease-fire deal that would allow Russian forces to remain in their current positions. “We will not accept a frozen conflict,” the president said without giving further details.

Zelensky emphasized that Russian President Vladimir Putin must agree to meet him to negotiate any deal to end the fighting.

He said it was important to continue peace talks but noted that “until the Russian president signs it or makes an official statement, I don’t see the point in such agreements.”

___

LVIV, Ukraine — New satellite images analyzed by The Associated Press suggest fighting may be ongoing at a besieged steel plant in Mariupol.

The Kremlin is denying that Russian forces are trying to storm the Azovstal plant, the last remaining holdout of Ukrainian fighters in the port city.

An image shot by Planet Labs PBC at dawn Wednesday showed black smoke rising at one side of the plant near a canal. Buildings at the plant, including one under which hundreds of fighters and civilians are likely hiding, showed large, gaping holes in the roof. Debris littered the grounds.

Meanwhile, another satellite photo showed that a recent Russian missile attack tore a hole in a key bridge near Odesa.

Russia has attacked the bridge on three occasions. Though it is still standing, a chunk of the bridge is missing toward its south end, the image shows.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s Interior Ministry says a road crash in the western Rivne region has killed 26 people and injured 12 more. The collision involved a bus, a van and a fuel truck, the ministry said. The bus had been headed to Poland, which has been a key destination for Ukrainian refugees.

According to a ministry statement, the accident occurred because the van “performed a maneuver to overtake another vehicle, and drove into the oncoming lane, where it collided with a fuel truck.”

It wasn’t immediately clear how a Poland-bound bus with 34 passengers on board became part of the accident.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin has rejected media reports that President Vladimir Putin might formally declare war on Ukraine on May 9, when Russia celebrates the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, and announce a broad mobilization.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the reports as “untrue” and “nonsense” at a daily conference call with reporters.

Western media reported earlier this month, citing U.K. and U.S. officials, that Putin might pivot from a “special military operation” to an all-out war with Ukraine, which would allow him to introduce martial law and mobilize reservists.

The reports said Putin could announce the changes during Victory Day celebrations on May 9, Russia’s most important holiday. ___

MOSCOW — The Russian defense minister has warned that Moscow will see any Western transports carrying weapons into Ukraine as legitimate targets.

Sergei Shoigu’s statement Wednesday comes as the U.S. and other Western allies have increased shipments of weapons to Ukraine. Speaking at a meeting with top military officials, Shoigu denounced the West for “stuffing Ukraine with weapons.”

“Any NATO transports carrying weapons or resources for the Ukrainian military that arrives in the country’s territory will be seen by us as a legitimate target to be destroyed,” he said.

The Russian military has repeatedly reported strikes on Ukrainian depots containing Western weapons. Striking Western transports delivering them would mark a significant escalation in the conflict.

___

MOSCOW — Belarus has announced snap military exercises amid the Russian war in Ukraine, while insisting it would not threaten any neighbors.

The Belarusian Defense Ministry said the exercises that began Wednesday would be used to assess the readiness and capability of the country’s armed forces, and the military’s ability to operate on “unknown terrain in a rapidly changing situation.”

The ministry did not say how many troops are involved in the exercises but noted that their number would be gradually increased.

It said the maneuvers “do not threaten the European community in general and any neighboring countries in particular.”

Belarus allowed its ally Russia to use its territory as a staging ground before Moscow launched its military action in Ukraine on Feb. 24.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian officials say evacuations from the besieged port of Mariupol will continue on Wednesday.

Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said evacuations from Mariupol and three other locations to Zaporizhzhia, a city in southeast Ukraine, would take place “if the security situation permits.”

The governor of the Donetsk region, Pavlo Kyrylenko, confirmed that evacuation buses had already left Mariupol and would stop at three other locations to pick up more passengers.

Kyrylenko said the effort is supported by the United Nations and the International Red Cross.

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union plans to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow, in its next round of measures against Russia, according to several EU diplomats.

The three people with direct knowledge of the discussions were not authorized to speak publicly as negotiations on the sixth EU package of sanctions between the 27-nation bloc’s ambassadors were ongoing Wednesday.

Kirill is a longtime ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and has justified his country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Kirill has also echoed Putin’s unfounded claims that Ukraine was engaged in the “extermination” of Russian loyalists in Donbas, the breakaway eastern region of Ukraine held since 2014 by Russian-backed separatist groups.

If the sanctions proposed by the EU’s executive arm are approved by EU member countries, Kirill would be added to the EU’s updated list of individuals facing travel bans and a freeze of assets.

A total of 1,093 individuals, including Putin and oligarchs, as well as 80 entities, are already subject to the punishing measures.

— Reported by Samuel Petrequin

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union’s chief executive is proposing that the bloc ban oil imports from Russia over its war on Ukraine, and target the country’s biggest bank and major broadcasters in a new round of sanctions.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told EU lawmakers Wednesday that the sanctions should involve “a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined.”

She says the aim is to “make sure that we phase out Russian oil in an orderly fashion, in a way that allows us and our partners to secure alternative supply routes and minimizes the impact on global markets.”

The sanctions proposals are to be debated by the 27 EU member countries. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they would not take part. The two are landlocked and heavily dependent on Russia for their energy supplies.

Banks are also in the EU executive arm’s sights, notably the giant Sberbank. Von der Leyen says the aim is to “de-SWIFT Sberbank,” as well as two other banks. SWIFT is the major global system for financial transfers.

Von der Leyen says those alleged to be spreading disinformation about the war in Ukraine should be targeted, notably three big Russian state-owned broadcasters. She did not identify any of the outlets.

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220505ei550002z


Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk
1577 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 08:20 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0748 GMT - While acknowledging concerns about the long-term sustainability of Orsted's returns as well as increased competition and supply chain costs, Berenberg analysts Marc Ip Tat Kuen and Andrew Fisher firmly believe these are transitory and overdone, they say in a note. "We believe the market is greatly undervaluing any growth beyond the pipeline, despite the long-duration growth opportunity that we see across the renewables space." From both an environmental and economical viewpoint, renewable energy generation is an inevitability and requires decades of appropriate investments, they say. "We expect Orsted to achieve its forecast of 50 gigawatts of gross installed renewables capacity by 2030, comprised of 30 gigawatts of offshore capacity, 17.5 gigawatts of onshore/solar capacity and 2.5 gigawatts of bioenergy." (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0740 GMT - EDP's first-quarter results were weak due to challenging hydropower conditions but were anticipated by consensus, Deutsche Bank 's Olly Jeffery says in a research note. The Portuguese energy company's hydro production in the Iberian market was 2.6 terawatt hours lower compared with the historical average. This pushed EDP to buy electricity in the wholesale market at high prices, with the average electricity price at EUR229/MWh in the quarter, resulting in a EUR400 million Ebitda loss in the first quarter. Shares trade 2.2% lower at EUR4.20. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0702 GMT - Thai Oil's refining margins are likely to widen this year due to a growth in jet-fuel demand, CGS-CIMB analyst Amornat Cheevavichawalkul says in a research note. The relaxation of border curbs in many countries will likely spur a recovery in air travel, so the price spread of jet fuel versus crude oil should widen, averaging US$6.80/bbl in 2022 from US$2.20/bbl in 2021. She notes that unlike other Thai refiners, Thai Oil didn't cease jet-fuel production when spreads were weak, so it seems to be in a good position to benefit from the coming travel boom. CGS-CIMB keeps an add rating while raising the target price to THB70.50 from THB63.50. Shares rise 0.4% to THB58.00. (yongchang.chin@wsj.com)

0330 GMT - Oil turns higher after trading lower earlier in the Asian session, supported by the EU 's plan to phase out imports of Russian crude and refined products by the end of the year, analysts from Fitch Solutions say in a note. However, they note some EU members are resisting the ban, including Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic as they have a high reliance on pipeline supplies from Russia. That said, the unwillingness of buyers elsewhere, including the U.S., South Korea and Japan, to import Russian oil is also curtailing production and thus lending price support, the analysts add. Front-month Brent rises 0.7% to $111.64/bbl; WTI gains 0.7% to $109.01/bbl. (yongchang.chin@wsj.com)

0240 GMT - The outage at AGL Energy 's Loy Yang A coal power station has moved Macquarie's analysts to cut their forecast for the energy provider's FY22 EPS by 18%. The outage, which AGL expects to rectify by August, also results in a 5% cut to the analysts' FY23 EPS forecast. They see underlying EPS of 39.8 Australian cents for the 12 months through June 2022, which represents a 54% drop from a year earlier. Macquarie is under research restrictions as it is advising AGL over its planned demerger of its retail and generation businesses and is unrated on the stock, which is down 2.3% at A$8.225. (stuart.condie@wsj.com; @StuartLCondie)

0118 GMT - Oil prices are lower after a volatile session on Thursday where crude oil prices closed at the highest levels in nearly three weeks, write UOB analysts in a note. Supply concerns could continue to be in focus, stemming from the European Union 's proposal to sanction Russian oil within six months, UOB adds. The front-month contract for WTI is down 0.7% to $107.50/bbl while front-month Brent crude falls 0.8% to $110.02/bbl. (yiwei.wong@wsj.com)

1814 GMT - Refinery executives and plant managers are making some tough decisions this month on whether to undergo all the spring maintenance activities or push the envelope to re-supply fast-shrinking US fuel inventories and take advantage of huge, unheard of crack spreads (profit margins) of $53/barrel or more. Yesterday's weekly EIA data might suggest they're being cautious. Refinery utilization rates fell 1.9 percentage-points to 88.4% compared to WSJ survey forecasts for a 0.4% rise. "Do they continue to refine product and risk outages over the summer or will we see further utilization drops for the remainder of May?" the University of Tulsa's Tom Seng tells WSJ. "With inventories down, it's a tough call." (dan.molinski@wsj.com)

1530 GMT - The CEO of Pioneer Natural Resources expects US oil production to increase up to 600,000 barrels a day this year and that most analysts are overestimating how much output could rise. Some analysts have predicted US oil-production growth to exceed 1M barrels a day, but that's a difficult figure to hit given supply-chain and labor constraints, CEO Scott Sheffield says. Pioneer, the largest oil producer in the Permian Basin, the top US oilfield, expects 2Q production costs to increase almost 20% sequentially on various bottlenecks, and high diesel and steel prices. Sheffield notes US oil production has stayed relatively flat for several months this year despite a rising number of working drilling rigs. "We should have already seen some production growth," Sheffield says. "Too many think-tank firms are way too high on US production." (collin.eaton@wsj.com; @collineatonHC)

1405 GMT - Greece, Cyprus and Malta, which control a big chunk of the world's crude tankers, have raised questions about a proposed EU ban to move Russian oil across the world. A number of Greek shipowners have contracts with oil majors like Chevron and Shell to move Russian crude to clients in China and India and the ban would not allow them to get their ships insured. Greece alone controls around a quarter of all tanker tonnage with many shipowners doing business with Russia. "Athens won't veto the EU ban, but the government is under a lot of pressure from owners who will have problems honoring hundreds of millions worth in chartering contracts with oil majors," a senior Greek government official said.(costas.paris@wsj.com)

1354 GMT - Shale company Marathon Oil says it's raising spending 8% this year to account for oilfield inflation, emphasizing it's not spending to boost production in response to the current high energy prices. It expects to collect $4.5B in free cash flow this year with oil at $100 a barrel, up from its prior estimate of $3B at $80-oil. Its reinvestment rate -- the amount of incoming extra cash it's putting back into the oil patch -- will fall by almost 10 percentage points to about 20%. If oil prices remains around $100 a barrel this year, oilfield inflation will land somewhere around 20% this year, double what the company originally expected. "Prices are high, the labor pool is set, and supply chains globally and U.S. economy-wide are very tight," says Mike Henderson , EVP of operations. "We are not adding any growth capital due to higher prices," he adds. (collin.eaton@wsj.com; @collineatonHC)

1323 GMT - Shares of oilfield services firm ProPetro fell 2.3% yesterday following 1Q earnings results that many analysts say were actually solid. "While we're scratching our heads at what drove the market's unenthusiastic reaction to PUMP's Q1 print (and subsequent Q2+ outlook), we're no longer scratching our heads when it comes to the investment case for owning this equity at current levels," says Tudor Pickering in a research note as it upgrades to buy. "Operationally, in what was a challenging supply chain and logistics backdrop to deal with during Q1, we view PUMP's strong Q1 results as clear evidence of where this company sits on the industry-wide frac efficiency food chain, which is right at/near the top." Shares gain 2.5% pre-market. (dan.molinski@wsj.com)

0932 GMT - Enel 's swing in working capital should be recovered by year end and governmental measures to curb energy bills haven't had a significant impact on numbers, says ING's Nadege Tillier in a research note. The energy company's working capital and net debt in the quarter were negatively affected by energy procurement costs and margin calls but the hit should be temporary, Tillier says. Plus, measures adopted in Spain and Italy to claw back extra profits made by energy players on rising gas prices have had a limited impact on the company. "We remain positive on the name," says Tillier. "Enel is well positioned in this current energy crisis with a strong geographical diversification and growing renewable capacities in its generation mix." (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 06, 2022 04:20 ET (08:20 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220506ei560010j


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Fall at Open but Losses Seen Capped
1848 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 04:09 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Eurozone EuroCOIN Indicator; Germany Industrial Production; France Flash estimate job creation; Italy Retail Sales; UK Construction PMI; U.S. Employment Report; updates from Bertelsmann , Rheinmetall , IAG , adidas, Intesa Sanpaolo , Deutsche Post , ACS, Evonik, Jungheinrich , Scor, Repsol , ING, SEB, InterContinental Hotels , SAS

Opening Call:

It's likely Europe will endure another cautious open Friday, although regional stocks won't track Wall Street's collapse. Asian benchmarks suffered steep losses overnight, some in line with New York. Elsewhere, the dollar held its strong gains; Treasury yields and oil advanced and gold struggled for momentum.

Equities:

Europe faces another negative opening session Friday, although stock market losses look likely contained, despite Wall Street's selloff that saw the Dow and S&P 500 fall more than 3%.

Thursday's sharp about-face in the U.S. stemmed from uncertainty in the markets over just how much damage higher interest rates will do to the economy and earnings. Besides the Fed angst, investors are jittery about a variety of other issues-from the Russia-Ukraine war to lockdowns in China.

Investors "are calling the Fed's bluff," said Priya Misra, head of global rates strategy at TD Securities in New York. Essentially, she said, they are "saying inflation is a problem so [the] Fed will need to hike more and kill the economy," though she added she wasn't sure why the selling was so concentrated on Thursday in particular.

Forex:

The dollar made further more modest gains against a basket of currencies in Asia on increased concerns over a dimming economic outlook and high inflation and the outlook for Friday could be for more dollar strength if risk aversion continues, said MUFG Bank senior currency analyst Jeff Ng.

IGM's Bruce Clark said Jerome Powell 's comments [Wednesday] were actually pretty hawkish despite taking 75bp hikes off the table. Also contributing to the dollar's big moves was "fairly stark" economic news overseas: awful PMI numbers out of China with their economy likely to contract this quarter, and soaring inflation in the U.K. with a negative growth forecast for 2023.

"The U.S. looks like the cleanest dirty shirt out there, which has helped prop up the dollar. People get spooked when the dollar rises too quickly. It's an indication of tightened liquidity conditions around the world and that's not generally good for risk assets."

---

Sterling may weaken further as the deteriorating U.K. economic outlook may constrain the Bank of England 's ability to deliver on the market's interest rate rise expectations, said HSBC .

The BOE may be nearing the end of its rate-rise cycle, HSBC added. "The balance of this news will, in our view, continue to weigh on GBP." HSBC expects GBP/USD to fall to 1.20 in the year ahead.

Read: UK Local Elections Could Add to Sterling's Woes

Bonds:

Treasury yields were largely unchanged in Asian trade after they snapped back Thursday, with the 10- and 30-year yields hitting their highest levels since late 2018.

Spartan 's Peter Cardillo said the rally was "mostly due to speculators betting against Powell's remarks ruling out rate hikes" higher than half of a percent. "From years of experience Never Fight the Fed is likely to prevail this time as well," Cardillo said, arguing that inflation is likely to peak soon.

Capital Economics said Treasury yields are likely to keep rising as the Fed tightens, until the 10-year peaks at 3.75% by the middle of next year,

"The worst of this year's bond market selloff may now be over. But we still don't think long-term Treasury yields have peaked just yet."

Capital Economics said it could be too early in the tightening cycles for long-term yields to peak and it expects quantitative tightening to push up Treasury term premia.

---

Volatility caused by rising inflation and the war in Ukraine means investors need to diversify bond portfolios and spread currency exposure, said Justin Onuekwusi, EMEA head of retail investments at Legal & General Investment Management .

LGIM said the first quarter was the worst quarter in 30 years for bond returns. Onuekwusi has advised buying bonds from other areas of the developed world, such as South Korea, New Zealand and Australia. He also advised that investors should "spread currencies around the world" in order to limit exposure to localized inflation pressures.

Energy:

Oil's rally continued early Friday after a volatile session Thursday where crude prices closed at the highest levels in nearly three weeks.

Supply concerns could continue to be in focus, stemming from the European Union 's proposal to sanction Russian oil within six months, said UOB .

Fitch said some EU members are resisting the ban, including Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic as they have a high reliance on pipeline supplies from Russia. That said, the unwillingness of buyers elsewhere, including the U.S., South Korea and Japan, to import Russian oil was also curtailing production and thus lending price support.

Warren Patterson, head of commodities strategy at ING said the timetable for the Russia ban, which must be unanimously approved by all 27 EU members, provides for an orderly change in trade flows, but there are risks.

"There is the potential for Russia to halt oil flows to the EU before the wind-down period comes to an end, which would leave the EU scrambling to quickly find other supply. In addition, there is the risk of secondary sanctions from the U.S. on Russian oil, which would make it difficult for any country to buy Russian oil."

Metals:

Gold futures were flat in Asia after they eked out gains Thursday as stocks skid and the dollar and bond yields surged.

SPI Asset Management's Stephen Innes said the market seems to have priced in a rate hiking cycle by the Fed and the focus is now shifting to recession risks.

He reckons that 'superficial' hedging demand rather than actual physical demand has been a critical contributor to higher gold prices. "Tangible assets like gold present a hedge to rampant inflation. The implications are that when the Fed finally ratchets up interest rates high enough to stem the growth of inflationary pressures, investors will no longer need those hedges."

---

Copper prices were weaker with attention fixed on China, where officials are struggling to contain the coronavirus' wave by increasing restrictions in Shanghai and Beijing, said ANZ Research.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Dow, S&P 500 Slide More Than 3% as Investors Reassess Fed Comments

The stock market took its biggest U-turn since the early days of the pandemic Thursday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average posting its largest decline this year just 24 hours after its largest gain since 2020.

The reversal wiped out the euphoria that reigned on Wall Street Wednesday in the wake of Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell 's comment that the Fed wasn't "actively considering" raising interest rates by 0.75 percentage point at a future meeting. With inflation at its highest level since the early 1980s, markets had been anticipating such an increase and the prospect of a slower rise in rates set off a furious buying spree in the late afternoon.

   
 
 
Bond Slide Intensifies, Rattling Other Markets

A new burst of selling in bonds pushed the 10-year Treasury yield well above 3% Thursday, a day after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell had seemed to calm markets by playing down the chances of a supersize interest-rate increase in the coming months.

Treasury yields, which rise when bond prices fall, started climbing early in the U.S. trading session and then kept on going-taking on their own momentum and contributing to a sharp decline in stocks, which had rallied earlier in the week.

   
 
 
Bitcoin Slides Below $37,000 as Investors Unwind Risky Bets

Cryptocurrency prices slid Thursday afternoon along with major stock market indexes.

Bitcoin fell to $36,431.57 at 5 p.m. ET, down 8.4% from Wednesday, according to Dow Jones Market Data. Ethereum fell 6.4% to $2,754.37.

   
 
 
Search for Yield Pushes Investors Into Dividend-Paying Stocks

Investors seeking shelter from volatility are turning to a part of the markets that had largely been overlooked last year: dividend-paying stocks.

Shares of companies paying big dividends to investors have trounced practically everything else this year.

   
 
 
U.K. Retail Footfall Recovering but Consumer Confidence Falls

U.K. retail stores footfall in April remained below pre-coronavirus pandemic levels but still continued to recover despite consumer confidence levels falling to the lowest levels seen since the 2008 financial crisis, according to the latest report by the British Retail Consortium .

Footfall in U.K. stores fell 13.1% compared with 2019 in the period from April 3 to April 30, but rose 2.3% when compared with March 2022. This is also an improvement on the three-month average decline of 15.1%.

   
 
 
Auto Maker Stellantis to Keep EV and Gas-Engine Operations as One, CFO Says

The chief financial officer of auto-making giant Stellantis NV said he doesn't see a need to separate out the company's electric-vehicle business, adding that there are benefits to sticking with a unified operation.

In a call with analysts Thursday, Stellantis CFO Richard Palmer said the company isn't anticipating any big structural changes as it boosts investment in EVs, in part because the cash flow generated by its gas-engine vehicles is critical for funding the technological transition.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Friday

05:45/SWI: Apr Unemployment

06:00/SWE: Mar New orders & deliveries in industry

06:00/SWE: Mar Industrial Production Index

06:00/DEN: Mar Industrial production & new orders

06:00/GER: Mar Industrial Production Index

06:00/FIN: Mar Foreign trade

06:00/UK: Apr Halifax House Price Index

06:45/FRA: 1Q Flash estimate of job creation

07:00/AUT: Apr Wholesale Price Index

6 May 2022 00:09 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Fall at Open but -2-

07:00/HUN: Mar Preliminary Industrial Production

07:00/AUT: Feb Foreign Trade

07:00/SWI: Apr SNB foreign currency reserves

07:00/SPN: Mar Industrial Production

07:30/EU: Apr EuroCOIN indicator of euro area economic activity

08:00/ITA: Mar Retail Sales

08:30/UK: Apr S&P Global / CIPS UK Construction PMI

09:00/CRO: Apr PPI

09:00/GRE: Mar External Trade (provisional data)

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 06, 2022 00:09 ET (04:09 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220506ei560002q


FACTBOX-Companies sell their businesses in Russia
1458 字
2022 年 5 月 11 日 13:37 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
(Updates with AmRest, Amur, Atria, Elopak, Paulig, Shell)

May 11 (Reuters) - Some Western companies have agreed to sell their Russian assets or hand them over to local managers as they scramble to comply with sanctions over the Ukraine conflict and deal with threats from the Kremlin that foreign-owned assets may be seized.

The moves, part of a broader corporate exodus from the country, are likely to stir concerns that Russian firms and institutions are snapping up prized assets for a bargain.

Below is a list of firms by sector that have announced plans to sell their businesses in Russia:

AUTOMAKERS

INCHCAPE

The British car distributor said it had agreed to sell its Russian business to local management. The sale will result in an exceptional non-cash loss before tax of about 240 million pounds ($297 million).

RENAULT

The French carmaker will transfer its 68% stake in Russia's biggest carmaker Avtovaz to an auto research institute for a symbolic one rouble, Russia said on April 27.

BANKS

OTP BANK

Hungary's OTP Bank, Central Europe's largest independent lender, is under pressure from the government of Ukraine, where the bank is also present, to sell its Russian unit, its chief executive said on April 27.

RAIFFEISEN BANK INTERNATIONAL

Austria's RBI, one of the European banks most exposed to Russia, has received unsolicited indications of interest for its Russia operations, the bank's chief said on May 4.

SOCIETE GENERALE

The French lender expects to close the sale of its Rosbank unit to Russia's Interros Capital "in the coming weeks," it said on May 5.

It announced the sale on April 11, adding it would write off 3.1 billion euros ($3.3 billion), comprising a 2 billion-euro hit on Rosbank's book value and the rest linked to the reversal of rouble conversion reserves. ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS & EQUIPMENT

EMERSON ELECTRIC

The diversified U.S. manufacturer said on May 4 it would explore strategic options to divest Metran, its subsidiary in Russia, as it exits the country.

SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC

The French electrical equipment maker will sell its operations in Russia and Belarus to local management, the company said on April 27, as it signed a letter of intent with the designated buyers.

It will write off up to 300 million euros ($317 million) of net book value and make a non-cash reversal of currency translation estimated at 120 million euros.

FOOD & BEVERAGES

AB INBEV

The brewer said on April 22 it would sell its non-controlling stake in its Russian joint venture AB InBev Efes. The divestiture will result in a $1.1 billion impairment charge in the first quarter. The joint venture has 11 breweries in Russia and three in Ukraine.

AMREST

The Poland-listed restaurant operator said on May 6 it had been unable to sell its business in Russia to the sanction-hit investment fund VTB Capital, according to Russian media Kommersant. AmRest is now seeking a new buyer, the newspaper said.

ATRIA

The Finnish food processing company said on March 7 it is exiting its fast food business in Russia, following the divestment of its industrial subsidiary in the country in April 2021.

CARLSBERG

The Danish brewer said on April 28 it was selling its Russian business, with its chief executive specifying there was good progress and "definitely" interest in it.

FAZER

Finnish bakery and food service company said on April 29 it had agreed to sell its Russian unit to Moscow bakery company Kolomenskij Bakery and Confectionery Holding. Fazer did not disclose the value of the transaction.

PAULIG

The privately owned Finnish food and drink company said on May 5 it had sold its operations in Russia to private Indian investor Vikas Soi, after being mentioned by Russian authorities as an example of a foreign company that could be nationalised.

It said the divesture includes unit Paulig Rus LLC and Paulig's operations as well as its coffee roastery in Tver, but not the Paulig brand, which will be phased out in Russia during the coming months.

RAISIO

The Finnish food processing company said on April 29 it had agreed to sell its consumer business in Russia to Copacker Agro Ltd for about 1.5 million euros ($1.6 million). As a result of the sale, Raisio said it would recognise an estimated impairment loss of 2.9 million euros in its Q1 earnings before interest and taxes.

VALIO

The Finnish dairy producer has sold its Russian business to GK Velkom, the company said on April 26, following an earlier threat by Russian authorities to nationalise its business there. Valio said the transaction would take effect immediately but gave no financial value for it. MINING

AMUR MINERALS CORP

The London-listed Russian mining company announced on May 9 it proposed to sell its main Kun-Manie project for $105 million and agreed to assign to buyer benefit of all loans owed by Kun-Manie to Amur in consideration for $30 million.

KINROSS

Kinross Gold Corp is selling its Russian assets to Highland Gold Mining group of companies for a total of $680 million in cash, the Canadian gold miner said on April 5, nearly a month after suspending its operations in the country.

PACKAGING FIRMS

ELOPAK

The Norwegian supplier of carton packaging and filling equipment is seeking a buyer for its plant in Russia, its chief executive said on May 9.

HUHTAMAKI OYJ

The Finnish food packaging company said on April 29 it had decided to initiate the divestiture of its operations in Russia.

MONDI

The British paper and packaging firm said on May 4 its board had decided to divest its Russian assets, adding there could not be any certainty on the timing and structure of any possible transaction.

TOBACCO

BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO

The cigarette maker is in advanced talks to transfer its Russian business to Russia's SNS Group of Companies, its distributor, SNS said on March 18, after Moscow suggested it could nationalise assets of foreign firms that left the country.

IMPERIAL BRANDS

The British tobacco group announced the transfer of its Russian business to investors based in Russia on April 20, following talks with an unidentified third party in March.

JAPAN TOBACCO

The Japanese company said on April 28 it was considering selling its Russian operations after suspending investment and marketing activities in the country last month.

OTHERS

BRUNEL INTERNATIONAL

The Dutch employment services company is in the process of selling activities in Russia to local management, it said on April 29, adding its net investment in the country at end-March was 14 million euros ($14.8 million).

FLUGGER GROUP

The Danish paint maker said on April 8 it had initiated the sale of its Russian and Belarusian companies, taking a 115 million Danish crowns ($16.3 million) write-down.

HENKEL

The chief executive of the German consumer goods group said on April 29 it could "completely halt or sell (its) Russia business", after announcing its intention to exit the country on April 19.

HYVE

The British exhibitions group said on April 6 it proposed selling its Russian business for a maximum price of 72 million pounds ($89 million), citing warnings from customers that they would boycott its Western events if it continued to operate in the country as well as result of compliance and operational challenges from Western sanctions.

LPP

The Polish clothing retailer said on April 28 it decided to sell its business in Russia and is talking to potential buyers.

MAERSK

The Danish shipping company has found possible buyers for its 30.75% stake in Global Ports Investments, which operates ports in Russia, it said on May 4.

SHELL

The British energy and petrochemical giant announced on May 6 that negotiations were underway to sell its network of petrol stations and lubricant plant in Russia.

It was unclear who the potential buyer was, but sources told Reuters it would most likely be a local company.

STORA ENSO

Finland's Stora Enso has entered into an agreement to sell its two sawmills and their forest operations in Russia to local management, leading it to record 130 million euros ($137 million) in losses, the group said on April 25.

YIT

The Finnish builder has signed an agreement with Etalon Group PLC for the sale of its operations in Russia for about 50 million euros ($53 million). As a result of the sale, YIT said it would book an impairment of about 150 million euros in its first quarter income statement. ($1 = 0.8076 pounds) ($1 = 0.9468 euros) ($1 = 7.0399 Danish crowns) (Compiled by Elena Vardon, Augustin Turpin, Enrico Sciacovelli, Ina Kreuz; Editing by Mark Potter and Jan Harvey)

Released: 2022-5-11T14:37:43.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220511ei5b02w61


Express/Parcels, Freight/Logistics, Mail
Interview: PostNord targets fossil-free deliveries, responds to mail decline, Ukraine impacts
PostNord Group, CEP-Research
1102 字
2022 年 5 月 12 日
CEP Research
CEPRES
英文
Copyright 2022. ITA Consulting GmbH - CEP Research
Transforming to fossil-free deliveries, adjusting to declining mail volumes and responding to the impacts of the Ukraine war are just some of the top current operational priorities at PostNord, CEO Annemarie Gardshol told CEP-Research in an exclusive interview.

Sustainability, USO regulations and international sanctions are just some of the topics covered in this second part of a two-part interview. In the first part of the interview, she outlined the Nordic logistics and postal group’s strategic priorities, management changes, commercial responses to changing consumer demand trends, and potential new areas of business.

Becoming fossil-free by 2030

In Q1 2022, the PostNord Group Board of Directors approved a new sustainability agenda that aims to radically reduce the climate footprint of its transport in the Nordic market and make a fossil-free business possible by 2030. PostNord’s climate footprint reduction plans have now also been endorsed by the Science Based Targets initiative.

Already last quarter, the company invested in 240 new electric vans and a similar number of charging stations, as well as 28 biogas-powered trucks. As a result of these investments, carbon dioxide emissions decreased by 12% over the first three months of this year compared to the corresponding quarter in 2021. Meanwhile, renewable energy accounted for the group’s 43% of total energy consumption.

Throughout 2022, the group plans to continue making sustainable investments to help it achieve its 2030 target, according to Gardshol. “We have already invested quite a bit of time and effort within the senior management to understand how we can become fossil-free by 2030, and to look at what milestones we should reach along the way,” she said.

“Mindful investments”

“Setting this goal was essential not only to ensure we have a positive impact on the climate but also to meet regulatory requirements – such as emissions-free cities, for example – to meet the needs of customers demanding cleaner deliveries and our operational requirements,” she observed. “We are also mindful that we can’t move too fast with the electrification of our delivery fleet as we still need the infrastructure to support it, and we need to ensure this is developed in the most efficient way taking into consideration the charging needs of different vehicles, such as trucks and cars. We need to try and meet this target in a mindful way to ensure operations continue efficiently and remain cost effective.”

Cost is a big issue industry-wide when it comes to meeting sustainability targets. Electric vehicles are typically more expensive than traditional vehicles and as Gardshol mentions, the entire refuelling infrastructure needs to be redeveloped. “We know this is going to require significant investments,” she admitted. “We have therefore raised our investment levels in this area for the next 8-10 years to help us meet the 2030 target.”

The future of letter mail

Meanwhile, like all postal operators, PostNord faces the fundamental challenge of how to respond to the structural decline in traditional letters as digitalisation accelerates. In Q1 2022, for example, its mail volumes decreased by 13% year-on-year.

For PostNord in Denmark and Sweden – the two countries where it is the designated universal postal operator – tackling the cost issues of a declining market segment is a continuing challenge.

“We have been facing this challenge in Denmark for many years as the country has seen one of the fastest drops in letter mail volumes. More than 80% of the volume is gone, which is huge when compared to most of the western world which is seeing declines of about 45-50%. Therefore, we are planning for a scenario where Sweden will also eventually see similar volume declines,” she disclosed.

USO changes

Gardshol stressed the importance of financial support from the state if it is to continue meeting the requirements of the universal service obligation in Denmark and Sweden. “We need to balance the service requirements and the cost of meeting these requirements with the revenue we get from customers. If the cost of living up to the USO exceeds revenue, which is the case in Denmark, support from the state is needed.”

In Denmark, PostNord has worked very closely and constructively with regulators on this topic. Since January 1, 2020, the operator has received compensation from the Danish Government, and this agreement is in place until the end of 2022. “We are now in dialogue with the government to put in place a new USO from January 1, 2023, which should last for 3-5 years and feature a compensation package,” Gardshol said.

In Sweden, PostNord currently doesn’t need financial support from the government to meet the USO, but the firm is adjusting its distribution model to reduce costs. “We are moving to a model where we deliver letters every other day but continue to deliver parcels and express items every day,” she explained.

“However, a government inquiry into how the Swedish USO should look in the future has been initiated,” she continued. “This will look at whether there will be a need for financing in the future, and how the financing should take place. This inquiry should be completed by the end of January next year.”

The war in Ukraine

Much more immediately, PostNord, like many other postal operators around the world, is experiencing various impacts from the Ukraine conflict and is working hard to support the country as the war with Russia continues.

The group has suspended all commercial flows to and from Russia and Belarus along with USO-related postal flows between Sweden and those two countries. “We don’t have that many deliveries to and from Russia and Belarus, but we are still doing our part to support Ukraine and to meet the requirements of trade sanctions,” Gardshol explained. “We are also providing free transport for aid.”

In terms of stopping postal flows in Sweden to and from Russia and Belarus, Gardshol said that the group is “working on getting them up and running again, but first a screening system is needed to ensure that mail and goods are not sent to people or entities on the sanction list.”

In terms of indirect consequences of the war, Gardshol said that PostNord has seen an impact on the consumer buying power and consumption as energy and fuel prices rise, which could lead to an impact on volumes. “We are also being hit by the increasing cost of transport, both in terms of fuel prices and with the transport that we purchase,” she added.

120522

CEP-Research GmbH

文件 CEPRES0020220512ei5c00004


EMEA Morning Briefing: Hawkish Powell to Hold Back Stocks
1984 字
2022 年 5 月 18 日 04:10 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

EU Harmonised CPI, New Passenger Car Registrations; UK Producer Prices, Monthly Inflation, House Price Index, Card Spending; G7 Finance Ministers/Central Bank Governors Meeting; updates from SAP, Zalando , Deutsche Boerse, Traton, Atos, Erste , Leonardo Finmeccanica, TCS, Burberry, Experian, British Land , ABN AMRO, abrdn, Deliveroo , Euronext

Opening Call:

Caution will likely dominate European markets early Wednesday after Jerome Powell noted challenges ahead to avoid a U.S. recession. Stocks were mixed in Asia; the dollar, Treasury yields and oil gained; and gold weakened.

Equities:

European shares may struggle for momentum Wednesday following another hawkish message from Jerome Powell and despite a tech-led rally on Wall Street.

U.S. stocks briefly pared gains as Powell voiced resolve in fighting inflation, before indexes climbed back toward new session highs.

"There could be some pain involved" in restoring price stability, Powell said in remarks at The Wall Street Journal's Future of Everything Festival.

Powell said he wasn't at odds with those who believe the Fed faces a difficult path toward achieving what is known as a "soft landing," in which growth slows enough to bring down inflation without triggering a recession.

"I would say there is no disagreement really. It is a challenging task, made more challenging the last couple months because of global events," he said. "It is challenging because unemployment is very low already and because inflation is very high."

Wells Fargo CEO Charlie Scharf , speaking at the same event, said it would be difficult to avoid a recession but noted that consumers and businesses remain financially solid.

"The fact that everyone is so strong going into this should hopefully provide a cushion such that whatever recession there is, if there is one, is short and not all that deep," he said.

Read more from Powell here.

Economic Insight:

European and U.S. consumers look set to tighten their belts in response to the rising cost of living, but prices may increase more than they think, according to a survey.

A JPMorgan poll of 5,000 French, German, Spanish, British and U.S. consumers found they expect to reduce non-essential spending by more than 6% this year, though most appear to be under-estimating inflation, JPM said.

Consumers plan fewer do-it-yourself projects than before the pandemic, potentially hitting home-improvement retailers, the survey found. Consumers also look set to prioritize leisure spending over buying jewellery/premium accessories and sports and beauty products. Still, online grocers and food-delivery firms could benefit as only 20% of respondents plan to visit supermarkets more, the report showed.

Forex:

The dollar edged higher following Tuesday's pullback, as emerging risk aversion driven by losses in some Asian equity markets and U.S. stock futures boosted the currency's haven appeal.

Westpac said it was still far too early to call a long-term peak in the dollar and retracements should be shallow.

Jerome Powell reinforced the Fed's resolutely hawkish stance, although the European Central Bank was beginning to coalesce around a more hawkish posture, Westpac said.

---

The Fed's Charles Evans said Tuesday that aggressive central bank rate rises are needed to get inflation back under control.

"Inflation is clearly much too high and monetary policy must be repositioned to address this," Mr. Evans said in a speech in New York.

Read more here.

Bonds:

Treasury yields extended their gains in Asia after they rose to their highest levels in at least a week Tuesday.

U.S. data that included in-line retail sales and industrial activity that surprised on the upside helped lift yields Tuesday, and they remained elevated after Powell reinforced the Fed's commitment to stabilize price increases.

"Powell was open to moving rates past neutral if necessary and added that the landing could be a bit bumpy with an emphasis on balancing the labor market and restoring price stability," said BMO Capital Markets .

"Powell's comments only served to reinforce the Fed's current mantra of combating inflation at all costs," with the costs being economic performance.

Energy:

Oil futures pushed higher in Asia on optimism over China fuel demand after Shanghai on Tuesday had a third straight day of no new Covid-19 infections outside quarantine zones.

The "less awful news on China offers a nip in the tail in the form of much higher oil demand and prices," said SPI Asset Management.

However, the lack of an EU ban on Russian oil could limit the topside until the special summit on May 30-31, which is the next opportunity to agree on such an embargo, SPI added.

---

While the near-term outlook for oil is strong, Macquarie expects prices to fade in the second half.

Brent crude has averaged $107 in the second quarter so far but a likely increase in supply from OPEC and other countries, potentially including Iran, should weigh on prices in the second half, Macquarie said.

"We maintain our long-term assumption of $65 but defer this to the first quarter of 2024 [from 1Q of 2023]," Macquarie said.

Metals:

Gold futures weakened as contrary influences in the market continued to cause volatility.

Interest-rate differentials between the U.S. and some countries have narrowed, which has put downward pressure on the dollar and given the "green light" for gold investors to buy the dip, said OANDA .

However, bullion has pared recent gains partly because the U.S. retail sales data suggested the consumer remains strong, which is spurring expectations that the Fed won't ease up on its policy tightening.

---

Base metals were marginally lower on worries about China's economic slowdown.

Recent data suggested that China's stalling economy requires aggressive stimulus and a swift easing of Covid-19 restrictions, which don't appear likely soon, said TD Securities . In this context, base metals are expected to remain under selling pressure.

---

Iron-ore futures were down more than 2% on concerns over steel demand in China.

According to a media report, China Steel Corp . said this week that it will lower domestic steel prices by 2.1% on average for June delivery, partly due to a brief slowdown in steel demand.

Commodity-grade steel prices remain under pressure as international supply-side constraints continue to ease for basic steel products, said Rystad Energy .

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Powell Says Fed Has Resolve to Bring U.S. Inflation Down

The Future of Everything Festival is happening right now. Click here to register and watch for free as a member.

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said the central bank's resolve in combating the highest inflation in 40 years shouldn't be questioned, even if it requires pushing up unemployment.

   
 
 
Fed's Evans: Inflation Is Much Too High and Fed Must Act

Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said Tuesday that aggressive central bank rate rises are needed to get inflation back under control.

"Inflation is clearly much too high and monetary policy must be repositioned to address this," Mr. Evans said in a speech in New York.

   
 
 
U.S. Floats Tariff on Russian Oil as EU Oil-Sanction Talks Drag On

BRUSSELS-The U.S. is talking with the European Union about ways to limit global energy price increases that could be caused by an EU-proposed embargo on Russian oil, looking at additional options like setting a tariff on imports of Russian oil, according to U.S. Treasury officials.

Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen , who is in Brussels Tuesday ahead of a meeting of finance ministers of the Group of Seven major economies in Germany this week, has previously said that the proposed EU embargo on Russian oil could significantly raise oil prices globally.

   
 
 
Spain, Australia, U.K. Most Exposed to Financial Shock as Rates Rise, Says Fitch

SYDNEY-As central banks raise interest rates to combat the biggest inflation spike in decades, Fitch Ratings says Australia, Spain and the U.K. are the most exposed to a financial shock.

Australia and Spain's vulnerability stems from a high proportion of variable-rate mortgage lending, while borrowers in the U.K. already have relatively high debt-to-income ratios.

   
 
 
China's New-Home Prices Continued to Fall in April

BEIJING-New-home prices in China fell for the first time since late 2015 on a yearly basis as authorities' efforts to ease property-purchasing curbs and reverse the property market slump were yet to take effect.

Average new-home prices in 70 major cities edged 0.11% lower in April from a year earlier, reversing from March's 0.66% increase, according to Wall Street Journal calculations based on data released Wednesday by China's National Bureau of Statistics .

   
 
 
U.S. Economy Is Headed for a Downturn, Wells Fargo CEO Says

Wells Fargo & Co . CEO Charlie Scharf said Tuesday there was "no question" that the U.S. is headed for an economic downturn.

The Federal Reserve has raised rates twice this year and plans to keep doing so, part of its bid to cool the economy and curb red-hot inflation. Higher rates have pushed up borrowing costs for mortgages, credit cards and other loans. The Fed's moves have raised the question of whether the U.S. is headed toward a recession, which some investors fear could happen if the Fed raises rates too quickly.

   
 
 
U.K. Threatens to Tear Up Key Part of Brexit Deal Due to Northern Irish Tensions

LONDON-The British government Tuesday threatened to tear up an important part of its Brexit divorce deal with the European Union , saying it was causing political paralysis in Northern Ireland.

18 May 2022 00:10 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Hawkish Powell to Hold -2-

In a move that risks stoking a trade war with the EU, U.K. Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Tuesday the government plans in the coming weeks to present a law allowing it to unilaterally alter the terms of a deal agreed in 2019 with its European counterparts that governs the movement of goods between Northern Ireland, which is part of the U.K., and the rest of the U.K.

   
 
 
Sweden, Finland to Lodge NATO Bid

Sweden and Finland plan to apply for NATO membership on Wednesday, according to their leaders, a move that would break with decades of nonalignment by the two Nordic countries and represent a major geopolitical shift in Europe in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

At a joint press conference Tuesday, Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson and Finnish President Sauli Niinistö in Stockholm said the countries plan to jointly present their applications for membership in the U.S.-led alliance.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Wednesday

06:00/SWE: 1Q Industrial inventories

06:00/EU: Apr New Passenger Car Registrations in Europe statistics (EU27 + EFTA3)

06:00/UK: Apr UK producer prices

06:00/UK: Apr UK monthly inflation figures

07:00/SVK: Apr Harmonized CPI

07:00/AUT: Apr CPI

08:30/UK: Feb Card Spending statistics

08:30/UK: Mar UK House Price Index

09:00/CYP: Apr Harmonised CPI

09:00/MLT: Apr Harmonised CPI

09:00/EU: Apr Harmonised CPI

09:00/GRE: Mar Labour Force Survey

10:00/POR: Apr PPI

17:59/POR: Mar Balance of Payments

23:01/UK: 3Q Manpower UK Employment Outlook Survey

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 18, 2022 00:10 ET (04:10 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220518ei5i0004o


Danske Bank A/S - Speech from conference call Q1 2022
Danske Bank A/S published this content on 19 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 19 May 2022 09:28:33 UTC.
3215 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/6D66C6B5F67B3ECA8AA9DCC4255FB220AAF09A56]

Speech from conference call Q1 2022

Conference call

Q1 2022

29 April 2022

Investor Relations

.

C O R P O R A T E P A R T I C I P A N T S

Carsten Rasch Egeriis

Danske Bank - CEO

Stephan Engels

Danske Bank - CFO

Claus I. Jensen

Danske Bank - Head of IR

S P E E C H

Thank you, operator and hello everyone. Welcome to the conference call for Danske Bank's financial results for the first quarter of 2022. Thank you all for taking the time to listen in on this call today. My name is Claus Ingar Jensen and I am head of Danske Bank's Investor Relations. With me today, I have our CEO Carsten Egeriis and our CFO Stephan Engels. Slide 1, please

In today's call, we will present Danske Bank's financial results for the first quarter of 2022. We aim to keep this presentation to around 30 minutes. After the presentation, we will open up for a Q&A session as usual. Afterwards, feel free to contact the Investor Relations Department if you have any more questions. I will now hand over to Carsten.

Carsten Egeriis - CEO

Thanks Claus.

Let me start by making a comment to the company announcement we published yesterday about our decision not to distribute dividends in connection with the announcement of our interim report for the first quarter of 2022. This is done in order to ensure prudent capital management, as we have now entered into initial discussions with U.S. and Danish authorities in relation to the Estonia matter.

Our decision yesterday is consistent with our announcement in February 2022. I am not able to share any more details about the discussions with US and Danish authorities, which are confidential. However, we are not yet able to reliably estimate the timing, form of resolution or amount of a potential settlement or fines, which is likely to be material.

That said, I will now - together with Stephan - comment on our financial results for the first quarter which was published this morning.

Despite the tragic events in Ukraine following the Russian invasion in February, and the accompanying effects on the outlook for the global economy, we at Danske Bank have had a satisfying start to the year.

As I mentioned during our conference call in February we ended 2021 in a positive way as we started to benefit from several green shoots all supporting increased business momentum in many areas of Danske Bank. I am pleased that also in the first quarter, we have continued on this positive trajectory with improved commercial progress in our core banking activities. I will provide more detailed comments for each of the business units later in this call.

This first quarter also marked a period in which the remaining restrictions caused by the pandemic were lifted and economic activity remained at a high level. However, we also saw potential capacity constraints in the labour market and rising inflation from the levels we saw already in the fourth quarter.

Russia's invasion of Ukraine fuelled an acceleration of the supply -chain and energy supply issues. The situation is unlike anything we have seen for decades, and the uncertainty about how this will affect the economies and our customers remains high.

The significant investments we have made to enhance our financial crime prevention and compliance resilience over the past years, have enabled us to respond swiftly to the quickly changing environment. The sanctions implemented in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine are complex and expansive, and have impacted a number of businesses and operators in various ways across the Nordic countries. As a trusted financial partner, we have diligently focused on managing sanction risks while helping our customers navigate through this changing landscape.

In this turbulent environment, we saw good commercial progress driven by strong customer activity and our own initiatives in many segments of our business. Despite a slowdown in our capital markets-related business from a very high level last year, overall transactional activity including remortgaging was high. Adjusted for the fair value effect of loans at Realkredit Danmark, lending was up 2 per cent from the same period last year, due primarily to demand from our corporate customers.

The good progress we have seen within our sustainability offerings continued in the first quarter. We have improved our green offering to personal customers and we have maintained our position as a top- ranked arranger of sustainability-linked finance.

Financially, we saw progress in our net interest income due to positive effects from higher volumes and pricing initiatives, whereas fee income maintained the strong level from last year, benefiting from a diversified business mix.

Turbulent and difficult financial markets had an adverse impact on net trading income, due mostly to value adjustments whereas customer activity and trading income from our business units held up well relative to the same period in 2021. However, income from insurance business came in significantly lower despite a positive development in the underlying business.

In terms of operating expenses, we continue to make structural progress by reducing underlying costs despite continually high costs for remediation and AML. The cost/income ratio came in at around the same level as in the preceding quarter and higher than the level for the same period last year, mainly because of lower income.

Credit quality remained strong with loan impairment charges at a low level as our customers' financial position remained healthy, and we saw a limited impact from adjusted macro models in the first quarter and continue to have prudent PMAs in place.

Stephan will comment on the financial results in more details later in this call.

Despite the somewhat higher degree of uncertainty for the economies, we maintain our outlook for a net profit of between 13 and 15 billion for the full year subject to uncertainty and does not include any effect from

* potential settlement of the Estonia matter in 2022. Stephan will, as usual, comment on the outlook later in this call.

Now, let us have a look at how our business units performed in the first quarter.

Slide 3, please

At Personal & Business Customers, we started the year strongly with good activity and improving income across all lines. NII benefited from growing credit demand and the additional impact of the deposit repricing initiatives we have taken. In general, we saw a strong development for fees across segments, particularly within Business Customers, which also benefited from price initiatives to further encourage the use of digital channels. In Personal Customers Denmark, we saw seasonally high refinancing activity combined with a good contribution from remortgaging and general high activity from healthy consumer spending.

With the necessity of the green transition becoming increasingly more important for our society, we continue to implement products and solutions for all our customers for example through new loans that give personal customers an incentive to change their heating source, and further investing in our advisers' ESG abilities.

We continue our challenger strategy in Personal Customer Nordic, with a positive trend in home finance meetings and approval of mortgage applications in Sweden, which has supported the trend in lending.

For Business Customers, we have strong relations with our customers

* and although strong credit demand came primarily from our larger corporate clients, we continue to increase ancillary business with SMEs across our other offerings where especially cash management and FX product categories showed a strong development from the same period last year. As part of our tiered service model, we continue to enhance our allocation of resources through the investments we make in our digital solutions. In Q1, this resulted in a further improvement of relationship managers' ability to fully approve credit applications for small businesses digitally which now accounts for 60% of all approvals.

Coupled with good traction and further innovative digital offerings, we are excited about the opportunities that lie ahead. We will now welcome Christian Bornfeld and Johanna Norberg to the ELT as new heads of our new Personal Customers and Business Customers units, with the aim of further fine-tuning our focus with the dedicated split of P&BC that takes effect on Monday.

Slide 4, please.

Turning to LC&I, we continued to build on our strong relationships with our customers as a leading wholesale bank and have been able to support customers through our wide range of product offerings and

advisory services, which resulted in our financial performance holding up well despite the volatility that characterized the quarter.

In particular, we saw a strong development for lending volumes, which increased 4% from the same period last year. This was driven both by our activities in Denmark and, in line with our strategic priority, in Sweden as well.

Together with our leading everyday banking solutions, this volume growth mitigated the lower activity seen in capital markets, where primary markets slowed significantly during the quarter.

Asset under management saw a decline lower in the quarter due to financial markets correction, however AuM was supported by continued constructive net sales and our efforts to strengthen investment products, including award-winning sustainability offerings.

Even without adjusting for a landmark ECM transaction last year, our diversified business model resulted in NII and net fee income combined being stable in the quarter, despite the volatility and the negative effects of the decline in AuM.

As volatility hit the financial markets, we supported our customers with risk management expertise, which underpinned trading income despite the challenging market conditions. When excluding negative value adjustments, trading income at LC&I declined 14 per cent from the same period last year, however, net trading income rose 29 per cent compared to Q4.

Slide 5, please.

Now let us briefly have a look at our insurance activities and Northern Ireland.

At Danica, the result for the first quarter came in significantly lower than both the year-earlier level and the level in the preceding quarter. The turbulent financial markets had a negative impact on the investment results on life insurance products where Danica holds the investment risk, as well as on the investment result in the Health & Accident business.

In addition, the result from the H&A business included a negative valuation effect from an adverse development in hedges related to inflation risk.

The underlying business saw a positive development in the first quarter due to a continued growth in premiums from the same period last year as well as the H&A business where our preventive efforts have contributed to a decline in new cases.

In Northern Ireland, the core banking operations performed well, with NII and fee income combined up 16 per cent from the same period last year, supported by sound underlying activity, higher UK rates and diligent pricing adjustments.

This positive development was, however, offset by trading income being affected by mark-to-market adjustment of interest rate hedges. Given the nature of this hold-to-maturity hedging, this adjustment is, however, expected to reverse in the future.

So before I hand over the word to Stephan, let me round up by saying that, all in all, I am confident with the increased progress we have made in the first quarter across all business segments.

Despite the fact that in many ways, the first quarter was a turbulent one, we have, as we saw during the pandemic, benefited from our diverse and resilient business model and have been able to focus on continued execution of our 2023 plan.

Slide 6, please and over to Stephan.

Stephan Engels - CFO

Thank you, Carsten.

As Carsten just mentioned, we had a satisfying start of the year on the back of good progress from the end of 2021.

Our income from core banking activities performed well and was in line with expectations. NII was up 3 per cent from the same period last year, as deposit-repricing initiatives and higher volumes more than mitigated the margin pressure we saw from primarily higher funding rates in Norway. NII was up 1 per cent from the preceding quarter - despite the negative day effect - as a result of yet another quarter with an increase in lending and a positive impact on deposits from recent repricing actions and higher short-term rates.

Net fee income was in line with the level in the same period last year, when fee income benefited from strong customer activity and one significant ECM transaction in particular. The slowdown we have seen in primarily income from our capital markets business was almost fully mitigated by higher activity related income, including an increase coming from remortgaging activity in Denmark. When comparing Q1 with the preceding quarter, fee income came in lower primarily because of the annual booking of performance fees in Asset Management in Q4.

Trading income came in lower compared to the same period last year, due mainly to valuation effects, whereas underlying income from customers held up well despite the turbulent financial markets. Relative to Q4, income was lower as the fourth quarter last year benefited from a one-off gain of 0.2 billion. However, underlying trading income from the business units was up because of good customer activity at P&BC and LC&I.

Net income from insurance business came in lower due to a lower investment result and an adverse effect from an inflation hedge as Carsten mentioned earlier.

Other income amounted to 0.7 billion for the quarter, including the previously announced gain related to the sale of our business activities in Luxembourg.

Operating expenses came in 2 per cent above the level in the same period last year driven by an increase in regulatory costs and elevated remediation costs. Good progress with reducing underlying costs as well as lower transformation costs mitigated part of the increase. I will comment on the cost development in more detail later in this call.

Loan impairment charges amounted to 0.2 billion in Q1, down from 0.5 billion in the same period last year. The level continues to be well below a normalised level, confirming overall strong credit quality and our very limited direct exposure to Russia and Ukraine. We continue to have sufficient buffers in place, which I will also comment on later.

Net profit for the period thus amounted to 2.8 billion, down from 3.1 billion for the same period last year.

Slide 7, please.

Now let us take a closer look at the underlying development in net interest income for the Group.

For NII, we saw a good improvement compared to last year with an increase of 3 per cent. Deposits are clearly benefiting from two factors. Firstly, the repricing initiatives for deposits we launched during 2021, and secondly, the higher short-term rates.

On the lending side, we are pleased to see the positive impact from an increase in volume, whereas the negative impact of lending margins is due primarily to higher NIBOR rates, as the associated pricing adjustments for customers in Norway, announced this quarter, awaits implementation due to the notice period.

Relative to the preceding quarter, NII was up 1 per cent despite fewer interest days in the quarter. This development can mostly be attributed to the same factors I just explained for the year over year development namely higher volumes and margins. In addition, we saw two opposite effects in Q4, related to TLTRO and a negative one-off related to the NII impact of taxation of business travellers.

In respect to wholesale funding activities we have - as usual - been active during the first quarter in order to meet our funding need, primarily by issuing covered bonds and non-preferred senior bonds. The uncertainty caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine kept the market at low activity for a period. However, in early April we issued a sizeable non-preferred senior debt issue in USD confirming that we have full access to the market and we are in a comfortable position for now.

Slide 8, please.

Let's have a look at fee income.

As we have discussed on some of the previous slides, fee income maintained a strong level and came in at an almost unchanged level from the same period last year when fee income benefited from high activity driven by more benign financial markets conditions.

In the first quarter of this year, we saw a more turbulent market due to rising interest rates early in the quarter and significantly higher uncertainty as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Hence, we have seen a decline in income from activities subject to financial markets conditions however, this has been mitigated by strong commercial momentum in our business units.

Fees generated by investment activities were impacted by lower investment appetite among our customers however, fees were relative stable from the same period last year, as we continue to benefit from the increased momentum on investment sales we have seen building throughout last year. When comparing with the preceding quarter, please note that Q4 included the annual booking of performance fees of 0.3 billion in Asset Management.

Both year-over-year and relative to the preceding quarter, activity- related fees were up reflecting the strong underlying economic activity, and now exceed the level before the pandemic. In combination with our own customer initiatives, this translated into higher customer activity, for example through corporate daily banking services, and was further supported by adjustments to our fee structure for corporate customers.

For lending and guarantee-related income we also noted higher activity driven by remortgaging activity and the semi-annual refinancing of Flexloans. The higher longer term rates resulted in strong interest for remortgaging among our personal customers in Denmark and the good traction we have seen recently for our Flexloan mortgage product further added to remortgaging activity.

Slide 9, please.

Trading income came in at 0.6 billion for the quarter, significantly impacted by market value adjustments of Group Treasury's mortgage bond portfolio, mark-to-market movements on an interest rate hedge in Northern Ireland, and xVA adjustments, in total amounting to 0.5 billion.

Despite the turbulent financial markets, customer activity held up well at both P&BC and LC&I. The combined income of the two units exceeded the level from the preceding quarter by 28 per cent and was down 7 per cent from a high level in the same period the year before.

When comparing trading income for the periods please note that the first quarter of last year as well as the preceding quarter include one-off gains from the sale of Visa shares and Aiia.

Slide 10, please.

Now let's take a look at our operating expenses.

This is an excerpt of the original content. To continue reading it, access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/6D66C6B5F67B3ECA8AA9DCC4255FB220AAF09A56].

* Original Link[https://docs.publicnow.com/6D66C6B5F67B3ECA8AA9DCC4255FB220AAF09A56]

Disclaimer

Danske Bank A/S published this content on 19 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 19 May 2022 09:29:11 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020220519ei5j008py


CE Noticias Financieras English
Putin cuts off gas to Denmark and the Netherlands after refusing to pay in rubles
523 字
2022 年 5 月 30 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Denmark and the Netherlands face Russian gas cut-off after refusing to pay in rubles. Russian giant Gazprom has announced the cessation of flows to the Dutch territory, after state-owned GasTerra refused to comply with Vladimir Putin's demands. Danish buyer Orsted has also exposed itself to supply disruption by announcing that it will continue to pay in euros when its invoices fall due on Tuesday.

The two countries thus join Poland, Bulgaria and Finland, who have previously refused to pay the price of Russian gas in rubles, which has cost them the suspension of supplies. Violating the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia would entail financial and operational risks for these countries.

The Dutch energy firm was confident despite the Russian sanction. "The European gas market is highly integrated and extensive," GasTerra said in its statement, commenting on its contract that expires on October 1. However, the company has reminded that it is impossible to predict how the loss of supply of 2 billion cubic meters of Russian gas will affect the supply and demand situation and whether the European market can absorb this loss of supply without serious consequences."

Denmark's Orsted, for its part, indicated that Russia will not be able to cut off supplies directly, since there is no pipeline from Russia to Denmark, but Denmark obtains it through Germany. "This means that Denmark will have to buy more from the European gas market. We are counting on that being possible," he said in a statement.

European Commission In this context, the European Union has met again to try to finally carry out the approval of the sixth sanctions package that includes, among other things, the embargo on the purchase of oil of Russian origin.

However, the agreement currently on the table of the EU-27 is far from the "total ban" demanded by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, almost a month ago.

Everything suggests that the measure will first hit crude imports by ship, which account for about two thirds of the total flowing into the EU from Russia, and that it would leave for the long term the restrictions on crude oil traveling through pipelines, a mechanism designed to relieve countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic, highly dependent on crude oil from Moscow that arrives by pipeline and which do not have any kind of outlet to the sea.

Community sources are confident that after the leaders' commitment, the pact will be reached this week.

Gas prices Dutch gas futures, the benchmark in Europe, are heading for a second consecutive month of declines, the longest streak in two years. Last month the TTF price plunged 17.4%, falling back below €100 a megawatt hour. In May, it has now been in the red for four consecutive weeks. In fact, this month has seen prices not seen since before Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Currently, the price of gas in the Old Continent is back to 87/MWh.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220530ei5u0095w


World news
Russian forces now control more than two-thirds of Sievierodonetsk – as it happened
Samantha Lock (now), Maya Yang, Léonie Chao-Fong, Martin Belam and Tess McClure (earlier)
12841 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日 00:57 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
This live blog is now closed, you can find our latest coverage of the Russia-Ukraine war here

block-time published-time 1.57am BST

Summary

Before we close today’s live blog, here is a comprehensive run-down of where things currently stand.

* The US will send Ukraine four sophisticated, medium-range rocket systems and ammunition to help try to stall Russian progress in the Donbas region. The rocket systems are part of a new $700m tranche of security assistance[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/us-to-send-advanced-rocket-systems-to-ukraine-as-russia-tightens-grip-on-sievierodonetsk] that also includes helicopters, Javelin anti-tank weapon systems, radars, tactical vehicles, spare parts and more. It will take at least three weeks to get the precision weapons and trained troops onto the battlefield, the Pentagon said.

* Russia’s foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said the supply of US advanced rocket systems to Ukraine increases the risk of a “third country” being dragged into the conflict. Lavrov’s deputy, Sergei Ryabkov, said that Moscow viewed US military aid to Ukraine “extremely negatively” and that it would increase the risk of a direct confrontation. The Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov added: “We believe that the United States is purposefully and diligently adding fuel to the fire.”

* The US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, said Ukraine has given “assurances” that it will not use long-range weapons systems[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/us-says-ukraine-will-not-use-us-supplied-rocket-systems-to-hit-russian-territory] provided by Washington against targets on Russian territory.

* Following Biden’s announcement, the UK has reportedly asked the US to sign off on a plan to send advanced, medium-range rocket systems to Ukraine within a few weeks. Britain’s prime minister, Boris Johnson, spoke with Biden about the transfer of US-made M270 multiple launch rocket systems, which will be followed by a discussion between his foreign secretary, Liz Truss, and the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, on Thursday, Politico cited a source as saying.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629799c78f084d9060b72deb#block-629799c78f084d9060b72deb]

* Russian forces now control more than two-thirds of the key eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/luhansk-governor-says-russia-now-controls-70-of-sievierodonetsk], according to the regional governor of Luhansk. “Unfortunately, today, Russian troops control most of the city,” Serhiy Gaidai said, adding that a number of civilians are sheltering from Russian shelling [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62979d5d8f08f0cf4d701803#block-62979d5d8f08f0cf4d701803] under a chemical plant. The expected loss of Sievierodonetsk, the largest still held by Kyiv in the Luhansk region, “is unlikely to be the crux”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62977abf8f08c28a9854a80d#block-62977abf8f08c28a9854a80d] of Russia’s Donbas campaign, a western official said.

* Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, conceded that Kyiv’s forces are currently suffering up to 100 fatalities and 500 wounded every day. The most difficult situation is in the east of Ukraine and southern Donetsk and Luhansk, Zelenskiy said[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629753888f08beaa10020bab#block-629753888f08beaa10020bab] in an interview with the US Newsmax television channel. Western officials said Ukraine’s estimate that it is losing 60 to 100 troops a day killed is “pretty credible”.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629785ab8f08c28a9854a8b5#block-629785ab8f08c28a9854a8b5]

* A Russian missile hit rail lines in the western Lviv region, a key conduit for supplies of western weapons and other supplies, officials said. Lviv regional governor Maksym Kozytskiy said five people were wounded in the strike. Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to the country’s interior minister, said the Russians hit the Beskidy railway tunnel in the Carpathian Mountains in an apparent effort to cut a key railway link and disrupt shipments of weapons and fuel.

* Russia said it has completed testing of its hypersonic Zircon cruise missile and will deploy it before the end of the year on a new frigate of its Northern Fleet. President Vladimir Putin has described the Zircon as part of a new generation of unrivalled arms systems,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62972bb78f0870332c5e515b#block-62972bb78f0870332c5e515b] travelling at nine times the speed of sound.

* Russian troops have been accused of committing acts of torture against residents in the Russian-controlled Kherson region in southern Ukraine. The BBC has gathered multiple first-hand testimonies[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629750198f0870332c5e5324#block-629750198f0870332c5e5324] from Kherson residents who say they were tortured while in the hands of Russian forces.

* Denmark has voted overwhelmingly to join the EU’s common defence policy[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/denmark-votes-on-joining-eus-common-defence-policy], becoming the last of the bloc’s members to sign up. The referendum on Wednesday, in which voters backed the government’s proposal by 66.9% to 33.1%, followed historic applications[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/18/sweden-and-finland-formally-apply-to-join-nato] by Denmark’s previously non-aligned Nordic neighbours, Finland and Sweden, to join Nato last month.

* Nato’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, said he will convene a meeting in Brussels in the coming days with senior officials from Sweden, Finland and Turkey to discuss Turkey’s opposition to Sweden and Finland joining the alliance. Blinken said there was a “strong consensus within Nato, broadly, [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629790188f08f0cf4d701737#block-629790188f08f0cf4d701737] to support the rapid accession of Sweden and Finland” to Nato and he was confident it would happen.

That’s all from me, Samantha Lock, for now. Please join me a little a later when we launch our new live blog covering all the latest developments from Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

block-time published-time 1.41am BST

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has claimed 200,000 children are among the Ukrainians who have been forcefully taken to Russia, including children from orphanages, children taken with their parents and those separated from their families.

Zelenskiy made note of International Children’s Day during his nightly video address[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/kozhna-lyudina-maye-znachennya-ce-golovne-sho-vidriznyaye-na-75517] to the nation on Wednesday, claiming 243 children have been killed so far in the war, 446 have been wounded and 139 are missing.

The purpose of this criminal policy is not just to steal people but to make those who are deported forget about Ukraine and unable to return.

“Ukraine cannot be conquered, that our people will not surrender and our children will not become the property of the occupiers.”

block-time published-time 12.59am BST

Russian forces now control more than two-thirds of the key eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/luhansk-governor-says-russia-now-controls-70-of-sievierodonetsk], according to the regional governor of Luhansk.

Serhiy Gaidai said a number of civilians are sheltering from Russian shelling [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62979d5d8f08f0cf4d701803#block-62979d5d8f08f0cf4d701803] under a chemical plant while the Ukrainian head of the city administration, Oleksandr Stryuk, said Ukrainian forces are holding just 20% of the city, [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62975b7e8f085aa1402f5638#block-62975b7e8f085aa1402f5638] the largest still held by Kyiv in the Luhansk region.

The expected loss of Sievierodonetsk “is unlikely to be the crux”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62977abf8f08c28a9854a80d#block-62977abf8f08c28a9854a80d] of Russia’s Donbas campaign, a western official said.

Russian forces now control more than two-thirds of the key eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk[https://interactive.guim.co.uk/uploader/embed/2022/05/archive-2-zip/giv-6562VjPFD03Xxays/] Russian forces now control more than two-thirds of the key eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/luhansk-governor-says-russia-now-controls-70-of-sievierodonetsk] Russia’s Donbas campaign[https://interactive.guim.co.uk/uploader/embed/2022/05/archive-3-zip/giv-6562WUZOdnwdY67e/] Russia’s Donbas campaign

block-time published-time 12.35am BST

Residents of the eastern city of Sloviansk in the Donetsk region fear a full Russian assault after their city came under rocket attack late on Tuesday.

The missiles struck a residential area, damaging and burning nearby vehicles. According to the regional governor, at least three people were killed and six were wounded in the eastern Donetsk region.

block-time published-time 11.59pm BST

Summary

It’s 2am in Kyiv. Here’s where things stand:

* Brazilian football legend Pele on Wednesday called[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-6297df248f084d9060b73062#block-6297df248f084d9060b73062] for Russian President Vladimir Putin[https://www.theguardian.com/world/vladimir-putin] to end his army’s invasion of Ukraine, as the war-torn country’s national team was set to vie for a World Cup spot. Pele recalled meeting Putin in the past and exchanging “smiles accompanied by a long handshake.” “The power to stop this conflict is in your hands. The same ones I shook in Moscow, at our last meeting in 2017,” he wrote. The match in Glasgow is the first for the Ukrainian national team since the invasion began.

* A regional governor in western Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] said a Russian airstrike on transport infrastructure wounded two people Wednesday. Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to the country’s interior minister, said the Russians hit the Beskidy railway tunnel in the Carpathian Mountains in an apparent effort to cut a key railway link and disrupt shipments of weapons and fuel.

* The Senate of Ireland passed[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-6297d0ac8f084d9060b73007#block-6297d0ac8f084d9060b73007] a resolution on Wednesday declaring the Russian invasion of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] a “genocide.” “The acts carried out by the Russian military meet the criteria for genocide set out in the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, and as such, the illegal invasion of Ukraine by by the Russian Federation is an act of genocide,” the resolution stated.

* Denmark has voted[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-6297c4528f084d9060b72fc1#block-6297c4528f084d9060b72fc1] to join the EU’s defence policy. Wednesday’s referendum signals the latest shift among Nordic countries to deepen defence ties in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine]. Denmark was the only EU member that was not part of the bloc’s defence and security policy, after the country secured several exemptions in a 1993 referendum.

* The Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] Presidential Commissioner for Children’s Rights and Children’s Rehabilitation announced[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-6297bbf48f08c28a9854ab8e#block-6297bbf48f08c28a9854ab8e] on Wednesday that over 234,000 Ukrainian children have been deported since the war began. “According to open sources, as of today, more than 234,000 children have crossed the border to Russia and temporarily occupied territories of Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts. These are forcibly deported, forcibly displaced children either to the temporarily occupied territories, or to Russia or the Republic of Belarus,” the commissioner said[https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2022/06/1/7349940/].

* The head of Interpol raised [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-6297b46d8f08c28a9854ab4e#block-6297b46d8f08c28a9854ab4e] alarms on Wednesday about a possible uptick in weapons trafficking once the war in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] end. Interpol Secretary-General Jurgen Stock told the Anglo-American Press Association that he has “no doubt” illegal arms trafficking will increase. Stock encouraged Interpol’s 195-member countries to “intensively use available databases that can help trace and track weapons, for instance those stolen in another country.”

* The Pentagon announced [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-6297ad5f8f084d9060b72efa#block-6297ad5f8f084d9060b72efa] on Wednesday that the US will send Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] four sophisticated, medium-range rocket systems and ammunition to help try to stall Russian progress in the Donbas region of its country. The rocket systems are part of a new $700m tranche of security assistance for Ukraine from the US that also includes helicopters, Javelin anti-tank weapon systems, radars, tactical vehicles, spare parts and more.

That’s it from me, Maya Yang, today as I hand the blog over to my colleague in Australia, Samantha Lock. I’ll be back tomorrow, thank you.

block-time published-time 11.17pm BST

Brazilian football legend Pele called Wednesday for Russian President Vladimir Putin to end his army’s invasion of Ukraine, as the war-torn country’s national team was set to vie for a World Cup spot, Agence France-Presse reports.

“Today Ukraine tries to forget, at least for 90 minutes, the tragedy that still engulfs their country,” Pele wrote in an open letter to Putin, posted on Instagram just before the Ukrainian men’s football team faced Scotland in a World Cup playoff semi-final.

“I want to use today’s match as an opportunity to make a request: stop the invasion. There is absolutely no justification for this continued violence,” added the three-time World Cup champion.

“This conflict is wicked, unjustifiable and brings nothing but pain, fear, terror and anguish... Wars only exist to separate nations, and there’s no ideology that justifies projectile missiles burying the dreams of children, ruining families and killing the innocent.”

Pele recalled meeting Putin in the past and exchanging “smiles accompanied by a long handshake.”

“The power to stop this conflict is in your hands. The same ones I shook in Moscow, at our last meeting in 2017,” he wrote.

Considered by many the greatest footballer of all time, Pele had one of the most storied careers in sport, scoring more than 1,000 goals before retiring in 1977.

His message comes as the Ukraine conflict nears its 100th day, with fierce fighting ongoing in the nation’s east, after the Russian army failed in its bid to overtake Kyiv.

The match in Glasgow is the first for the Ukrainian national team since the invasion began.

The winners will face Wales on Sunday to decide who will be the final member of Group B - alongside England, the United States and Iran.

Russian President Vladimir Putin (L), Brazilian soccer legend Pele (C), and Argentinian soccer legend Diego Maradona (R) pose before the Final Draw of the FIFA World Cup 2018 at the State Kremlin Palace in Moscow, Russia, 01 December 2017. Photograph: Alexey Nikolsky/SPUTNIK/KREMLIN POOL/EPA

block-time published-time 10.41pm BST

A regional governor in western Ukraine said a Russian airstrike on transport infrastructure wounded two people Wednesday, the Associated Press reports.

Lviv region Gov. Maksym Kozytskyy didn’t name the target of the Russian strike near the city of Lviv.

Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to the country’s interior minister, said the Russians hit the Beskidy railway tunnel in the Carpathian Mountains in an apparent effort to cut a key railway link and disrupt shipments of weapons and fuel.

The Lviv region has served as a key conduit for supplies of Western weapons and other supplies.

block-time published-time 9.54pm BST

The Senate of Ireland passed a resolution on Wednesday declaring the Russian invasion of Ukraine a “genocide.”

enltr“….. the illegal invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation is an Act of Genocide”

Senate of Ireland passed a resolution on Genocide by Russia in Ukraine @ZelenskyyUa[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @r_stefanchuk[https://twitter.com/r_stefanchuk?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @Denys_Shmyhal[https://twitter.com/Denys_Shmyhal?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @mezentseva_dep[https://twitter.com/mezentseva_dep?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/2ge88ih7th[https://t.co/2ge88ih7th]

— Senator Mark Daly (@SenatorMarkDaly) June 1, 2022[https://twitter.com/SenatorMarkDaly/status/1532073563435724800?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

“The acts carried out by the Russian military meet the criteria for genocide set out in the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, and as such, the illegal invasion of Ukraine by by the Russian Federation is an act of genocide,” the resolution stated.

block-time published-time 9.25pm BST

Denmark will join the EU's defence policy, public broadcaster DR projects.

Denmark will join the European Union’s defence policy after a referendum on Wednesday, public broadcaster DR projected, signalling the latest shift among Nordic countries to deepen defence ties in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Reuters reports.

Denmark is the only EU member that is not part of the bloc’s defence and security policy, after the country secured several exemptions in a 1993 referendum.

Preliminary results by DR showed 66.6% of voters were in favour of removing an opt-out to the EU’s so-called Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP). Almost 34 percent of voters polled were opposed, but the outcome will not change, according to DR.

“It is a completely new approach to Europe, that we are signalling to our European allies, to the whole world,” said former foreign minister and member of the Social Liberal Party, Martin Lidegaard.

“It can hardly be overestimated, the importance it has on our foreign and European policy,” Lidegaard said.

In the CSDP Denmark would be able to take part in joint military operations, such as those in Somalia, Mali and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to cooperate on acquisition of joint military capabilities.

“The United States has said it very clearly. Europe must be more responsible for security, and I think it makes good sense to be part of that cooperation instead of constantly hoping for the U.S. to come,” said Conservative People’s Party leader Soren Pape.

People cast their votes shortly before the polling station closes at Copenhagen City Hall, in Copenhagen, Denmark, 01 June 2022. Photograph: Claus Bech/EPA

block-time published-time 8.35pm BST

Daria Herasymchuk, the Ukraine Presidential Commissioner for Children’s Rights and Children’s Rehabilitation announced on Wednesday that over 234,000 Ukrainian children have been deported since the war began.

enltrRussia deported 234,000 Ukrainian children to Belarus, Russian, or ????-occupied territory - ???? Children's Rights Commissioner

This is prohibited by Geneva Convention. "Today we can also say that the world of adults has failed Children's Day in Ukraine" https://t.co/sLNvbn4Z30[https://t.co/sLNvbn4Z30]

— Euromaidan Press (@EuromaidanPress) June 1, 2022[https://twitter.com/EuromaidanPress/status/1532076434063183873?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

“According to open sources, as of today, more than 234,000 children have crossed the border to Russia and temporarily occupied territories of Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts. These are forcibly deported, forcibly displaced children either to the temporarily occupied territories, or to Russia or the Republic of Belarus,” Herasymchuk said[https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2022/06/1/7349940/].

“We will fight for absolutely every Ukrainian child. Today we can also say that the world of adults has failed Children’s Day in Ukraine,” she added.

Eva, 8, and Violetta, 7, eat candies and drink tea at a refugee shelter for children in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine May 16, 2022. Photograph: Gleb Garanich/Reuters

block-time published-time 7.57pm BST

The head of Interpol, an international organization that that facilitates worldwide police cooperation and crime control, raised alarms on Wednesday about a possible uptick in weapons trafficking once the war in Ukraine ends, the Associated Press reports.

Interpol Secretary-General Jurgen Stock told the Anglo-American Press Association that he has “no doubt” illegal arms trafficking will increase.

“We have seen that in the Balkans region,” Stock said. “We have seen that in theaters in Africa that, of course, organized crime groups try to exploit this chaotic situation, availability of weapons and even weapons that are used by the military.”

Small weapons are the main concern, he said.

Stock encouraged Interpol’s 195-member countries to “intensively use available databases that can help trace and track weapons, for instance those stolen in another country.”

“No country in our region can deal with it in isolation because the criminals I’m talking about are operating globally,” Stock said.

Interpol, based in Lyon, France, does not carry out investigations but provides training for police and customs officers to, for instance, identify trafficking routes, Stock said.

block-time published-time 7.35pm BST

The Pentagon announced on Wednesday that the US will send Ukraine four sophisticated, medium-range rocket systems and ammunition to help try to stall Russian progress in the Donbas region of its country, the Associated Press reports.

It will take at least three weeks to get the precision weapons and trained troops onto the battlefield, the Pentagon added.

The rocket systems are part of a new $700m tranche of security assistance for Ukraine from the US that also includes helicopters, Javelin anti-tank weapon systems, radars, tactical vehicles, spare parts and more.

Asked if the weapons are arriving too late to make a difference, as Russia makes progress in the east and south, Colin Kahl, the defense undersecretary for policy, said he doesn’t think so.

“It is a grinding fight,” he said during a Pentagon briefing. “We believe that these additional capabilities will arrive in a timeframe that’s relevant and allow the Ukrainians to very precisely target the types of things they need for the current fight.”

The Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters Wednesday that the US is “deliberately and diligently pouring fuel on the fire.” He added that the Kremlin doesn’t trust Kyiv’s assurances that the multiple rocket launch systems supplied by the US will not be used to attack Russia.

“In order to trust [someone], you need to have experience with situations when such promises were kept. Regretfully, there is no such experience whatsoever,” Peskov said.

It’s the 11th package approved so far and will be the first to tap the $40bn in security and economic assistance recently passed by Congress. The rocket systems would be part of Pentagon drawdown authority, so would involve taking weapons from US inventory and getting them into Ukraine quickly. Ukrainian troops would also need training on the new systems, which could take at least a week or two.

Officials said the plan is to send Ukraine the High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or Himars, which is mounted on a truck and can carry a container with six rockets. The system can launch a medium-range rocket, which is the current plan, but is also capable of firing a longer-range missile, the Army Tactical Missile System, which has a range of about 190 miles and is not part of the plan.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.43pm BST

block-time published-time 7.01pm BST

Summary

It’s 9pm in Kyiv. Here’s where we stand:

* The US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, said Ukraine has given “assurances” that it will not use long-range weapons systems provided by Washington against targets on Russian territory. Blinken’s remarks [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629783328f08c28a9854a89e#block-629783328f08c28a9854a89e] came after the US president, Joe Biden, confirmed he will send the more advanced, longer-range rocket systems to Kyiv,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/us-to-send-advanced-rocket-systems-to-ukraine-as-russia-tightens-grip-on-sievierodonetsk] a critical weapon that Ukrainian leaders have been asking for as they struggle to stall Russian progress in the Donbas region.

* Following Biden’s announcement, the UK has reportedly asked the US to sign off on a plan to send advanced, medium-range rocket systems to Ukraine within a few weeks. Britain’s prime minister, Boris Johnson, spoke with Biden about the transfer of US-made M270 multiple launch rocket systems this morning, which will be followed by a discussion between his foreign secretary, Liz Truss, and the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, on Thursday, Politico cited a source as saying. [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629799c78f084d9060b72deb#block-629799c78f084d9060b72deb]

* During a joint news conference with Blinken, Nato’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, said he will convene a meeting in Brussels in the coming days with senior officials from Sweden, Finland and Turkey to discuss Turkey’s opposition to Sweden and Finland joining the alliance. Blinken said there was a “strong consensus within Nato, broadly, [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629790188f08f0cf4d701737#block-629790188f08f0cf4d701737] to support the rapid accession of Sweden and Finland” to Nato and he was confident it would happen.

* Russia’s foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said the supply of US advanced rocket systems to Ukraine increases the risk of a “third country” being dragged into the conflict.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62977e638f084d9060b72c77#block-62977e638f084d9060b72c77] Lavrov’s deputy, Sergei Ryabkov, said that Moscow viewed US military aid to Ukraine “extremely negatively” [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629719b08f08beaa1002093f#block-629719b08f08beaa1002093f] and that it would increase the risk of a direct confrontation.

* T he regional governor of Luhansk, Serhiy Gaidai, said a number of civilians are sheltering from Russian shelling [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62979d5d8f08f0cf4d701803#block-62979d5d8f08f0cf4d701803] under a chemical plant in the eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk. Ukrainian forces are holding just 20% of the city, [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62975b7e8f085aa1402f5638#block-62975b7e8f085aa1402f5638] the largest still held by Kyiv in the Luhansk region, according to the Ukrainian head of the city administration, Oleksandr Stryuk. The expected loss of Sievierodonetsk “is unlikely to be the crux”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62977abf8f08c28a9854a80d#block-62977abf8f08c28a9854a80d] of Russia’s Donbas campaign, a western official said.

* Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, conceded that Kyiv’s forces are currently suffering up to 100 fatalities and 500 wounded every day. The most difficult situation is in the east of Ukraine and southern Donetsk and Luhansk, Zelenskiy said[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629753888f08beaa10020bab#block-629753888f08beaa10020bab] in an interview with the US Newsmax television channel. Western officials said Ukraine’s estimate that it is losing 60 to 100 troops a day killed is “pretty credible”.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629785ab8f08c28a9854a8b5#block-629785ab8f08c28a9854a8b5]

* Russia said it has completed testing of its hypersonic Zircon cruise missile and will deploy it before the end of the year on a new frigate of its Northern Fleet. President Vladimir Putin has described the Zircon as part of a new generation of unrivalled arms systems,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62972bb78f0870332c5e515b#block-62972bb78f0870332c5e515b] travelling at nine times the speed of sound.

* Russian troops have been accused of committing acts of torture against residents in the Russian-controlled Kherson region in southern Ukraine. The BBC has gathered multiple first-hand testimonies[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629750198f0870332c5e5324#block-629750198f0870332c5e5324] from Kherson residents who say they were tortured while in the hands of Russian forces.

That’s it from me, Léonie Chao-Fong, today as I hand the blog over to my colleague in New York, Maya Yang. I’ll be back tomorrow, thank you.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.09pm BST

block-time published-time 6.56pm BST

An elderly woman next to a building damaged by an overnight missile strike in Sloviansk, Ukraine. Photograph: Andriy Andriyenko/AP A man stands next to a building damaged by an overnight missile strike in Sloviansk, Ukraine. Photograph: Andriy Andriyenko/AP

block-time published-time 6.42pm BST

Civilians sheltering under Sievierodonetsk's Azot chemical plant, says governor

Civilians are sheltering from Russian shelling under a chemical plant in the eastern Ukrainian city of Sievierodonetsk, according to the regional governor of Luhansk, Serhiy Gaidai.

It is possible there are still stocks of dangerous chemicals at the facility, Gaidai told Reuters.

Referring to the siege of the Azovstal steel plant in the southern port city of Mariupol, Gaidai said:

There are civilians there in bomb shelters, there are quite a few of them, but it will not be a second Azovstal as that [plant] had a huge underground city – which isn’t there at Azot.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.09pm BST

block-time published-time 6.11pm BST

Jasper Jolly speaks to Yuriy Ryzhenkov, whose Azovstal plant was devastated by Russian bombardment:

The Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol has become one of the symbols of the brutality of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Soldiers held out for weeks in the warren of tunnels, warehouses and cooling blast furnaces as they and hundreds of civilians sheltering with them were encircled and eventually forced to surrender[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/20/russian-army-takes-control-of-mariupols-azovstal-steel-plant].

The site produced 40% of Ukraine’s entire steel output and was the key asset of the country’s biggest pre-war employer, Metinvest. Now its owner has an important role to play in the parallel battle to sustain the economy via its other plants outside occupied territory, according to its chief executive, Yuriy Ryzhenkov.

Russian troops stand in front of the destroyed administration building of Azovstal iron and steel works. Photograph: Chingis Kondarov/Reuters

“The war effort is not only what you supply to the army, but also how [the] economy functions,” the Metinvest boss says, speaking via videolink from a company office in Lviv, western Ukraine. “So the better the economy functions, the better the country can fight a war.

In our view, in my personal view the people who are now at our steel mills are just as important to the victory of Ukraine as the soldiers on the frontline.

Ryzhenkov was in the capital, Kyiv, when he first heard Russian weaponry signalling the start of the invasion and was stunned that Vladimir Putin’s regime would launch open warfare. The company has since adjusted to operating in a warzone, but at least 153 Metinvest employees have died in the fighting.

Beyond keeping money flowing through the economy, the metals and mining group is playing a direct role in the war effort, delivering steel for 1,500 bulletproof vests a week to Ukraine’s armed forces, and importing military equipment such as drones, night-vision headsets and helmets.

It is a remarkable shift for a company whose main shareholder – Ukraine’s richest man, Rinat Akhmetov – was as recently as November cited by the president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/nov/26/ukrainian-intelligence-warns-russia-backed-december-coup], as a target to be recruited to back a possible coup attempt. Zelenskiy said Akhmetov was not involved in the plot, and the oligarch said claims of moves to draw him in were “an absolute lie”.

Read Jasper Jolly’s full article[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/ukraine-steel-boss-at-heart-of-mariupol-defence-says-economy-is-key-to-war-effort] – Boss of devastated Azovstal plant: ‘Steel is as key to Ukraine’s victory as soldiers’

Related: Steel boss at heart of Mariupol defence says economy is key to war effort[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/ukraine-steel-boss-at-heart-of-mariupol-defence-says-economy-is-key-to-war-effort]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.28pm BST

block-time published-time 5.55pm BST

The UK has reportedly asked the US to sign off on a plan to send advanced, medium-range rocket systems to Ukraine within a few weeks, following President Joe Biden’s announcement that he will send similar weapons.

Britain’s prime minister, Boris Johnson, spoke with Biden about the transfer of US-made M270 multiple launch rocket systems this morning, Politico reports[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/06/01/u-k-seeks-u-s-approval-to-send-rocket-system-to-ukraine-00036328], citing a person familiar with the matter.

The meeting will then be followed by a discussion between his foreign secretary, Liz Truss, and the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, on Thursday, the source said.

The UK would be the first country to send the US-made MLRS, the news site reports. The US must officially approve the move due to export regulations.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.59pm BST

block-time published-time 5.43pm BST

Interpol’s secretary general, Jürgen Stock, has warned that many of the weapons being sent to Ukraine will eventually wind up in criminal hands in Europe and beyond.

Stark urged countries to start scrutinising arms-tracking databases, telling reporters:

The high availability of weapons during the current conflict will result in the proliferation of illicit arms in the post-conflict phase.

Organised crime groups will be empowered by the availability of weapons, he said.

Criminals are already now, here as we speak, focusing on that.

block-time published-time 5.15pm BST

Nato’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, said he will convene a meeting in Brussels in the coming days with senior officials from Sweden, Finland and Turkey to discuss Turkey’s opposition to Sweden and Finland joining the alliance.

Speaking at a joint news conference with the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629783328f08c28a9854a89e#block-629783328f08c28a9854a89e] Stoltenberg said:

I’m in close contact with President Erdogan of Turkey and with the leaders of Finland and Sweden.

Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg, and US secretary of state Antony Blinken. Photograph: Jacquelyn Martin/AP

Blinken said there was a “strong consensus within Nato, broadly, to support the rapid accession of Sweden and Finland” to Nato and he was confident it would happen.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.17pm BST

block-time published-time 4.52pm BST

Today so far...

It is almost 7pm in Kyiv. Here’s where we stand:

* Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, conceded that Kyiv’s forces are currently suffering up to 100 fatalities and 500 wounded every day. The most difficult situation is in the east of Ukraine and southern Donetsk and Luhansk, Zelenskiy said[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629753888f08beaa10020bab#block-629753888f08beaa10020bab] in an interview with the US Newsmax television channel.

* The US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, said Ukraine has given “assurances” that it will not use long-range weapons systems provided by Washington against targets on Russian territory. Blinken’s remarks [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629783328f08c28a9854a89e#block-629783328f08c28a9854a89e] came after the US president, Joe Biden, confirmed he will send the more advanced, longer-range rocket systems to Kyiv,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/us-to-send-advanced-rocket-systems-to-ukraine-as-russia-tightens-grip-on-sievierodonetsk] a critical weapon that Ukrainian leaders have been asking for as they struggle to stall Russian progress in the Donbas region.

* Russia’s foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said the supply of US advanced rocket systems to Ukraine increases the risk of a “third country” being dragged into the conflict.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62977e638f084d9060b72c77#block-62977e638f084d9060b72c77] Lavrov’s deputy, Sergei Ryabkov, said that Moscow viewed US military aid to Ukraine “extremely negatively” [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629719b08f08beaa1002093f#block-629719b08f08beaa1002093f] and that it would increase the risk of a direct confrontation.

* Ukrainian forces are holding just 20% of the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk, the largest still held by Kyiv in the Luhansk region, according to the Ukrainian head of the city administration, Oleksandr Stryuk[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62975b7e8f085aa1402f5638#block-62975b7e8f085aa1402f5638]. Serhiy Haidai, Ukraine’s governor of Luhansk, said earlier this morning[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629724e18f0870332c5e5115#block-629724e18f0870332c5e5115] that Russia controls 70% of the city. The expected loss of Sievierodonetsk “is unlikely to be the crux”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62977abf8f08c28a9854a80d#block-62977abf8f08c28a9854a80d] of Russia’s Donbas campaign, a Western official said.

* Russia said it has completed testing of its hypersonic Zircon cruise missile and will deploy it before the end of the year on a new frigate of its Northern Fleet. President Vladimir Putin has described the Zircon as part of a new generation of unrivalled arms systems,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62972bb78f0870332c5e515b#block-62972bb78f0870332c5e515b] travelling at nine times the speed of sound.

* Russian troops have been accused of committing acts of torture against residents in the Russian-controlled Kherson region in southern Ukraine. The BBC has gathered multiple first-hand testimonies[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629750198f0870332c5e5324#block-629750198f0870332c5e5324] from Kherson residents who say they were tortured while in the hands of Russian forces.

* Germany will supply Ukraine with the IRIS-T air defence system, the chancellor, Olaf Scholz, said, following pleas from Kyiv and German opposition parties to step up heavy weapons deliveries. Scholz said Germany had been “delivering continuously since the beginning of the war” and said talks were continuing[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-6297346a8f085aa1402f5442#block-6297346a8f085aa1402f5442] with Germany’s partners on ways to further arm Ukraine against the Russian attack.

* Fuel believed to be partially made from Russian crude has reportedly reached US shores despite a ban on all imports of Russian oil, gas and energy. Traders are attempting to evade US sanctions by obscuring the origins of Russian oil, concealing the oil in blended refined products[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62973f4c8f08beaa10020ab8#block-62973f4c8f08beaa10020ab8] such as gasoline, diesel and chemicals, the Wall Street Journal reports.

Hello. I’m Léonie Chao-Fong and I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments from the war in Ukraine. As always, feel free to drop me a message if you have anything to flag, you can reach me on Twitter[https://twitter.com/leonie_chaofong] or via email.[mailto:leonie.chao-fong@theguardian.com]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.08pm BST

block-time published-time 4.40pm BST

The expected loss of Sievierodonetsk “is unlikely to be the crux” of Russia’s Donbas campaign, a Western official said, in a war that could now grind on “to the end of the year” given the slow rate of Moscow’s advance.

The average gain of Russian forces in Popansa south of Sievierodonetsk has “averaged between 500m and 1 kilometre” a day in the last month, the official added, meaning capturing the remainder of the Donetsk region in the Donbas would take months more at least.

Russia would have to achieve “further challenging operational objectives” to declare victory on the Kremlin’s now reduced campaign terms, the official said. That would require taking the city of Kramatorsk, more of the M04 main road between the Ukrainian-held city of Dnipro and the Russian-held city of Donetsk, they added, and more rivers would have to be crossed in the process.

The official said in a briefing:

Although we see Russia is starting to learn from its mistakes and make advances in the Donbas, I think it’s important to stress that the battle for Sievierodonetsk is is unlikely to be the kind of the crux of the Donetsk campaign.

Russian casualty rates were dropping because of the increasingly concentrated fighting in the Donbas, and were probably “not necessarily significantly more” than a previous estimate of 15,000 killed given in April. The number of Russians wounded, since the war began, is estimated at about 40,000.

The west believes that Ukraine’s estimate that it is losing 60 to 100 troops a day killed in the current fighting is “pretty credible” although troop morale remains far higher than the invaders, where the official argued there was “growing disillusionment” with Russia’s slow-moving campaign among junior soldiers and more senior ranks.

Russia may slow down its offensive after capturing Sievierodonetsk to regroup, in what could amount to a pause.

The official said it was unlikely the Russian invaders would be “in a position to continue to exploit immediately” once the city, the last held by Ukraine in the Luhansk region, fell. Instead, Moscow’s forces could be forced into “a kind of an operational pause” to “reconstitute and resupply”, they said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.57pm BST

block-time published-time 4.34pm BST

Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskiy attends a news conference at a metro station in Kyiv, Ukraine. Photograph: Gleb Garanich/Reuters

block-time published-time 4.22pm BST

Ukraine 'will not use US weapons to strike Russia', says Blinken

The US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, has been speaking at a joint news conference with Nato’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, where he said Ukraine has given “assurances” that it will not use long-range weapons systems provided by Washington against targets on Russian territory.

The new weapons package heading to Ukraine is “precisely what they need” and will strengthen their hand at any negotiations in the future, he said.

Regarding concerns about Russia interpreting the weapons package to Ukraine as escalatory, Blinken said that the US president, Joe Biden, had been clear with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, about the consequences of the Russian invasion.

Blinken said:

There was no hiding the ball. We’ve been extremely clear about this from day one with President Biden communicating that directly to President Putin. So we have done exactly what we said we would do.

He said Putin had wanted less Nato but instead, “he is getting more Nato, more troops and more members”.

The US cannot predict how long the conflict will continue, Blinken continued, but it will make sure Ukraine is equipped with what it needs to defend itself effectively.

Blinken said:

We can’t predict how this is going to play out, when this is going to play out. As best we can assess right now, we are still looking at many months of conflict.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.31pm BST

block-time published-time 3.58pm BST

Russia’s foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said the supply of US advanced rocket systems to Ukraine increases the risk of a “third country” being dragged into the conflict.

His remarks came after the US president, Joe Biden, confirmed[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/us-to-send-advanced-rocket-systems-to-ukraine-as-russia-tightens-grip-on-sievierodonetsk] he will send more medium-range high mobility artillery rocket systems to Ukraine as part of a new weapons package to be unveiled today.

Speaking at a news conference in Saudi Arabia, Lavrov also said Russia is facing difficulties exporting grain due to sanctions against its ships, Reuters reports.

Lavrov said:

There are also problems with the export of Russian grain... Vessels that carry Russian grain have fallen under sanctions.

block-time published-time 3.43pm BST

About 15,000 Russian troops have been killed and 40,000 wounded since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, western officials have estimated.

Our Dan Sabbagh writes that Russia’s previously high casualty rate has dropped significantly since its focus of attack has narrowed.

Officials have also supported Ukraine’s count that its forces are losing between 60 and 100 soldiers each day in the battle in the Donbas.

enltrWestern officials estimate that not much more than 15k Russian forces killed and 40k wounded in war so far. Previously high casualty rate has dropped markedly as Moscow's focus of attack has narrowed

— Dan Sabbagh (@dansabbagh) June 1, 2022[https://twitter.com/dansabbagh/status/1532001529925877761?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrCurrent rate of Russian advance - the official said - around Popansa is 500m - 1km a day. Russia faces "further operational challenges" if it is to take the Donetsk oblast ie get to Kramatorsk

— Dan Sabbagh (@dansabbagh) June 1, 2022[https://twitter.com/dansabbagh/status/1532003506034458624?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrAlso a growing feeling this war could run for many more months. Western official - "I think we're looking at a conflict which is got the potential to run at least to the end of this year."

— Dan Sabbagh (@dansabbagh) June 1, 2022[https://twitter.com/dansabbagh/status/1532006991190708226?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.53pm BST

block-time published-time 3.24pm BST

Denmark is voting on whether to join the EU’s common defence policy, potentially becoming the last of the bloc’s members to sign up as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues to reshape Europe’s security landscape.

The referendum on Wednesday, in which voters are thought likely to back the government’s proposal, follows historic applications[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/18/sweden-and-finland-formally-apply-to-join-nato] by Denmark’s previously non-aligned Nordic neighbours, Finland and Sweden, to join Nato last month.

Denmark, historically critical of the EU, secured exemptions from joining both the bloc’s security and defence policy and the euro in a 1993 referendum, but the country’s prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, said it was time to change tack.

“Unfortunately we are looking forward to a time that will be even more unstable than what we are experiencing now,” Frederiksen said after casting her vote.

I believe it is the right thing for Europe, the right thing for Denmark, the right thing for our future.

Frederiksen called the referendum barely two weeks after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine after reaching an agreement with a majority of parties in the Danish parliament, also pledging to increase defence spending to 2% of GDP, in line with Nato membership requirements, by 2033.

Related: Denmark votes on joining EU’s common defence policy[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/denmark-votes-on-joining-eus-common-defence-policy]

block-time published-time 3.12pm BST

The US military is conducting offensive hacking operations in support of Ukraine, according to the head of US cyber command, Gen Paul Nakasone.

US military hackers have “conducted a series of operations” in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Nakasone confirmed in an interview[https://news.sky.com/story/us-military-hackers-conducting-offensive-operations-in-support-of-ukraine-says-head-of-cyber-command-12625139] with Sky News.

Nakasone said:

We’ve conducted a series of operations across the full spectrum; offensive, defensive, [and] information operations.

He did not detail the activities but said they were lawful, conducted with civilian oversight of the military and through US defence department policy.

He also said he is concerned “every single day” about the risk of a Russian cyber attack targeting the US and said “hunt forward” operations were allowing the US to search out foreign hackers and identify their tools before they were used against America.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.19pm BST

block-time published-time 2.59pm BST

A dog named Patron (meaning cartridge in Ukrainian) trained to search for explosives at the celebration of Children’s Day in Lviv, Ukraine. Photograph: Pavlo Palamarchuk/Reuters The two-and-a-half-year-old jack russell has been given a medal for his services to the country by Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy. Photograph: Pavlo Palamarchuk/Reuters Patron has become a national symbol of Ukraine’s resistance against Russia, featuring regularly in videos on official Ukrainian social media channels. Photograph: Pavlo Palamarchuk/Reuters

block-time published-time 2.39pm BST

There has been another Telegram update from Serhiy Haidai, governor of Luhansk, this time with what he says is good news – a successful evacuation. He posted:

The mountain community suffers daily from enemy shelling, the racists level the settlements with artillery and aircraft. The hottest in Toshkivka and Zolote, orcs [a slang term for Russian forces] deliberately roam the high-rises. It was extremely difficult to drive, the road is constantly under fire, but our heroes broke through – brought in ambulances and evacuated nine people – retirees and people with limited mobility.

Haidai goes on to claim that the people are now safe.

block-time published-time 2.06pm BST

A Ukrainian MP has warned of an impending famine if action is not taken to unblock the country’s ports and release millions of tonnes of grain.

PA Media reports Kira Rudik, leader of the liberal Voice party, was speaking to journalists at the Scottish Parliament.

“Before the war, Ukraine was top three of the countries producing grains: wheat, sunflower oil, tomatoes and corn,” Rudik said.

Exports that could feed the rest of the world, the MP said, were stuck in ports in Ukraine with “no way of getting them out”.

“In 10 weeks, we are facing famine, especially for countries in the [global] south. We need a unified approach to help unblock our ports and help get all this harvest out.”

Rudik said she raised the issue in a meeting with Westminster Conservative MP, Tobias Ellwood, the chair of the defence select committee, adding: “This is a humanitarian mission that needs to happen, not for the Ukrainian good but for the good of the whole world.”

Rudik was interviewed by our defence and security editor Dan Sabbagh earlier in the week: Ukrainian MP urges west to supply long-range rockets or risk Russian victory[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/30/ukrainian-mp-urges-west-supply-long-range-rockets-risk-russian-victory-kira-rudik]

Related: Ukrainian MP urges west to supply long-range rockets or risk Russian victory[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/30/ukrainian-mp-urges-west-supply-long-range-rockets-risk-russian-victory-kira-rudik]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.34pm BST

block-time published-time 1.41pm BST

The UN’s secretary general, António Guterres, said he was hopeful of easing the food crisis prompted by the war in Ukraine, but warned that “we are not yet there” in terms of reaching any agreement to unblock shipments of commodities such as grain.

Speaking at a news conference with Sweden’s prime minister, Magdalena Andersson, in Stockholm, Guterres said:

I think that there is progress, but we are not yet there. These are complex things and the fact that everything is interlinked makes the negotiation particularly complex.

UN secretary general Antonio Guterres and Sweden’s prime minister Magdalena Andersson in Stockholm, Sweden. Photograph: Tt News Agency/Reuters

Guterres has been attempting to broker what he calls a package deal to resume both Ukrainian food exports and Russian food and fertiliser exports. He said:

As I said to the security council, I’m hopeful, but there is still a ways to go and we are totally committed to make things happen.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.20pm BST

block-time published-time 1.32pm BST

Just 20% of Sievierodonetsk in Ukrainian hands, says official

Ukrainian forces are holding just 20% of the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk, the largest still held by Kyiv in the Luhansk region, according to the Ukrainian head of the city administration, Oleksandr Stryuk.

There is still hope, however, that Ukrainian forces can prevent Russia from taking full control of the city, he said.

Russian forces now control 60% of the city while the rest has become “no-man’s land”, Stryuk told Reuters.

Stryuk said:

The 20% is being fiercely defended by our armed forces. Our troops are holding defensive lines. Attempts are being made to drive out the Russian troops.

We have hope that despite everything we will free the city and not allow it to be completely occupied

Earlier today, Ukraine’s governor of Luhansk, Serhiy Haidai, said[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629724e18f0870332c5e5115#block-629724e18f0870332c5e5115] Russia now “controls 70% of Sievierodonetsk” and that Ukrainian troops had “retreated to more advantageous, pre-prepared positions”.

Between 12,000 to 13,000 people remain in the city and it was impossible to get food or aid in or to get people out, Stryuk said.

There was no information on how many people have died in the city in recent days, he added.

block-time published-time 1.07pm BST

Residents of Sievierodonetsk, Luhansk, were told yesterday to remain in bomb shelters after a strike on a chemical factory created a toxic cloud.

This footage shows brown plumes of gas ascending after a container with chemicals was blown up at the Azot chemical works.

The factory, one of Ukraine’s biggest chemical works, employs about 7,000 people.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.48pm BST

block-time published-time 12.57pm BST

Zelenskiy: Ukraine losing up to 100 soldiers every day

Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, has conceded that Kyiv’s forces are currently suffering up to 100 fatalities and 500 wounded every day.

In an interview with the US Newsmax television channel that aired yesterday, Zelenskiy said:

The situation is very difficult; we’re losing 60-100 soldiers per day as killed in action and something around 500 people as wounded in action. So we are holding our defensive perimeters.

The most difficult situation is in the east of Ukraine and southern Donetsk and Luhansk, Zelenskiy added.

Tombs of people who died after Russia invasion are seen in Bucha cemetery, outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine. Photograph: Natacha Pisarenko/AP

Ukraine and its people are the “defensive perimeter” for the world against Vladimir Putin’s aggression, he told the channel.

We have to realise who is the dark power: it’s Russia. And Russia is not going to stop in Ukraine, for sure. The other countries, the former Republics of USSR and the members of the EU – some of them are already Nato member nations – they’re already under threat.

The Ukrainian president called out the “weakness” of Putin and Russia, not only in failing to occupy a smaller neighbouring nation but also in attempts to take him out as leader.

He said:

Attempting to kill the leader of this or that country is a weakness, I would say. If you can’t talk, then it’s a weakness.

Putin cannot win, and the world must stop defending him amid the latest “atrocities” committed by Russian troops, he continued, while also calling out the lack of fully enforcing sanctions.

Now, he’s almost isolated. The world always keeps giving him a chance, because the sanctions are not imposed completely. There’s gaps in some of the leaders saying the Russian leader should be offered with a way out.

block-time published-time 12.41pm BST

Russian troops accused of torture of Kherson residents, reports say

Russian troops have been accused of committing acts of torture against residents in the Russian-controlled Kherson region in southern Ukraine.

The BBC has gathered[https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-61607410] multiple first-hand testimonies from Kherson residents who say they were tortured while in the hands of Russian forces. In one case, Olexander Guz, a deputy in the village of Bilozerka in the Kherson region, said he was left with severe bruising after being beaten.

“They put a bag on my head,” he said.

The Russians threatened that I would not have kidneys left.

Oleh Baturin, a journalist for an independent newspaper in the Kherson region, said he was kidnapped and imprisoned by Russian forces for more than a week.

During his imprisonment, he said he heard others being tortured and witnessed a young man’s mock execution. He himself was beaten “on the back, ribs and legs” with “the butt of a machine gun” and suffered four broken ribs.

The BBC spoke to a doctor who worked in a hospital in Kherson, who said he has seen signs of electrocution, traces of binding on the hands and strangulation marks on the neck, as well as burns on people’s feet and hands.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.48pm BST

block-time published-time 12.08pm BST

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov has been speaking at his regular conference call with reporters, where he blamed “illegal restrictions” imposed on Russia by western countries for a potential “very deep” food crisis.

Russia has been blockading Ukrainian ports but is trying to pin the blame for the lack of grain shipments on western sanctions and on Kyiv itself.

Peskov told reporters today:

We are potentially on the verge of a very deep food crisis linked to the introduction of illegal restrictions against us and the actions of Ukrainian authorities who have mined the path to the Black Sea and are not shipping grain from there despite Russia not impeding in any way.

His remarks come after European leaders appealed to African countries, who are facing “a catastrophic scenario”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/31/africa-warns-of-food-crisis-due-to-russian-blockade-of-ukraines-ports] of food shortages and price rises, not to fall for the Kremlin’s propaganda campaign that paints the impending global food crisis as the result of western sanctions against Russia.

Peskov also warned that the EU’s sanctions on Russian oil would hit the global energy market, but said Moscow could re-route exports to limit its own losses.

He did not rule out a meeting between Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, but said talks needed to be prepared in advance.

Peskov said work on a peace document with Ukraine had stopped a long time ago and had not restarted.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.13pm BST

block-time published-time 11.33am BST

Fuel believed to be partially made from Russian crude reached US shores despite a ban on all imports of Russian oil, gas and energy, according to reports.

Traders are attempting to evade US sanctions by obscuring the origins of Russian oil, concealing the oil in blended refined products such as gasoline, diesel and chemicals, the Wall Street Journal reports.[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russian-oil-producers-stay-one-step-ahead-of-sanctions-11654076614]

The cargoes that landed in New York and New Jersey last month were brought through the Suez Canal and across the Atlantic from Indian refineries, which have been big buyers of Russian oil.

One analyst who has been tracking Russian fossil fuel exports and their role in funding the Ukraine war told the paper:

It does look like there’s a trade where Russian crude is refined in India and then some of it is sold to the US.

Oil is also being transferred between ships at sea in the Mediterranean, off the coast of west Africa and the Black Sea, and then taken toward China, India and western Europe, the paper reports.

In March, the US president, Joe Biden, announced that “Russian oil will no longer be acceptable at US ports”. The UK announced a similar move to phase out Russian oil imports by the end of 2022.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.14pm BST

block-time published-time 11.12am BST

A view shows a school destroyed during Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in the town of Marinka, in Donetsk region, Ukraine. Photograph: Reuters A police officer checks a school during an evacuation of local residents between shelling in the town of Marinka, in Donetsk region, Ukraine. Photograph: Reuters

block-time published-time 11.01am BST

Today so far …

* Russia has said that a US decision to supply advanced rocket systems and munitions to Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] was extremely negative and would increase the risk of a direct confrontation. Russian deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, said that Moscow viewed US military aid to Ukraine “extremely negatively”. “Attempts to present the decision as containing an element of ‘self-restraint’ are useless,” Ryabkov said. “The fact that the United States, at the head of a group of states, is engaged in a purposeful pumping of weapons into the Kyiv regime is an obvious thing.”

* The US president, Joe Biden[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/joebiden], has confirmed he will send the more advanced, longer-range rocket systems to Kyiv, a critical weapon that Ukrainian leaders have been asking for as they struggle to stall Russian progress in the Donbas region. The medium-range high mobility artillery rocket systems are part of a new $700m (£555m) tranche of security assistance from the US.

* Serhiy Haidai, Ukraine’s governor of Luhansk, has said that Russia now controls 70% of the city of Sievierodonetsk, which is the main crucible of Russia’s attack at the present time, and a key objective if Russian forces are to control the whole of the Donbas region. Haidai posted to Telegram claiming that “the Russians control 70% of Sievierodonetsk. Ukrainian troops retreated to more advantageous, pre-prepared positions. Another part continues fighting inside the city.”

* President Zelenskiy has blasted the “madness” of bombing a chemical plant in Sievierodonetsk. “Given the presence of large-scale chemical production in Sievierodonetsk, the Russian army’s strikes there, including blind air bombing, are just crazy.” Local officials said a nitric acid tank was hit and posted images of pink smoke billowing.

* Zelenskiy said Ukraine’s military forces have had some successes near Kherson and in parts of the Kharkiv region.

* The UK’s ministry of defence latest assessment of the situation on the ground in Ukraine says: “Russian ground operations remain tightly focused, with the weight of fire power concentrated within a small sector of Luhansk oblast. Over 30-31 May, fighting intensified in the streets of Sievierodonetsk, with Russian forces pushing closer to the town centre. Over half of the town is likely now occupied by Russian forces, including Chechen fighters. Beyond the Donbas, Russia continues to conduct long-range missile strikes against infrastructure across Ukraine.”

* Overnight a video depicting children alleged to have been killed by Ukrainian forces in the Russian-occupied Donbas region of Ukraine was projected on to the US embassy in Moscow as part of a protest to coincide with International Children’s Day.

* Germany will supply Ukraine with the IRIS-T air defence system, the chancellor, Olaf Scholz, said, following pleas from Kyiv and German opposition parties to step up heavy weapons deliveries.

* Switzerland ’s government has vetoed Denmark ’s request to send Swiss-made armoured personnel carriers to Ukraine. Denmark votes today in a referendum asking the nation whether it wants to end its decades-long opt-out from common European Union defence policies. Denmark’s foreign minister, Jeppe Kofod, has said he will ask parliament tomorrow for Denmark’s support of the accession of Sweden and Finland to Nato.

* Ukraine is working on an international UN-led operation with naval partners to ensure a safe trade route for food exports, according to Ukraine’s foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, who said Russia was playing “hunger games with the world by blocking Ukrainian food exports”.

* Pope Francis appealed to authorities to lift the block on wheat exports from Ukraine, saying the grain cannot be used as a “weapon of war”.

* The African Union warned EU leaders that Moscow’s blockade of Ukraine’s ports risked “a catastrophic scenario” of food shortages and price rises. Senegal’s president, Macky Sall, who chairs the union, said “the worst is perhaps ahead of us” if current global food supply trends continued.

* Russia says it has has completed testing of its hypersonic Zircon cruise missile and will deploy it before the end of the year on a new frigate of its Northern Fleet.

* Ukraine will face Scotland tonight in what is set to be a highly emotionally charged football match[https://www.theguardian.com/football/2022/jun/01/ukraine-players-show-their-nations-culture-is-alive-and-kicking] in Glasgow. The winners will play Wales on Sunday for the final berth at the 2022 Fifa World Cup in Qatar.

That is it from me, Martin Belam, until later on. Léonie Chao-Fong will be here with you shortly.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.09am BST

block-time published-time 10.42am BST

Germany will supply Ukraine with the IRIS-T air defence system, the Chancellor, Olaf Scholz, said, following pleas from Kyiv and German opposition parties to step up heavy weapons deliveries.

Scholz said Germany had been “delivering continuously since the beginning of the war”, pointing to more than 15m rounds of ammunition, 100,000 grenades and more than 5,000 anti-tank mines sent to Ukraine since Russia invaded the country on 24 February.

“Most recently, the government has decided that we will deliver the most modern air defence system that Germany has in the form of the IRIS-T,” Reuters reports Scholz told lawmakers in the Bundestag.

Responding to critics in his speech to parliament, Scholz said his government had responded to the Russian attack with a “massive change of policy in Germany” by opting to send heavy weapons into a war zone.

Ukraine’s requests for heavy weapons intensified in recent weeks when Moscow turned its fiercest firepower on the country’s east after failing to take the capital, Kyiv.

Scholz said talks were continuing with Germany’s partners on ways to further arm Ukraine against the Russian attack.

Updated at 10.52am BST

10.05am BST

Russia says it has has completed testing of its hypersonic Zircon cruise missile and will deploy it before the end of the year on a new frigate of its Northern Fleet.

Reuters report Aleksandr Moiseyev, commander of the Northern Fleet, said the Admiral Golovko frigate would become the first to be armed full-time with the Zircon.

President Vladimir Putin has described the Zircon as part of a new generation of unrivalled arms systems, travelling at nine times the speed of sound.

Updated at 10.18am BST

9.43am BST

Russia now controls 70% of Sievierodonetsk – Luhansk governor

Serhiy Haidai, Ukraine’s governor of Luhansk, has said that Russia now controls 70% of the city of Sievierodonetsk, which is the main crucible of Russia’s attack at the present time, and a key objective if Russian forces are to control the whole of the Donbas region.

Haidai posted to Telegram claiming that “the Russians control 70% of Sievierodonetsk. Ukrainian troops retreated to more advantageous, pre-prepared positions. Another part continues fighting inside the city.”

He also said: “Lysychansk is completely under Ukrainian control. All free settlements of Luhansk region are constantly under fire. Evacuation is suspended.”

Updated at 10.19am BST

9.22am BST

Pope Francis appealed to authorities to lift the block on wheat exports from Ukraine, saying the grain cannot be used as a “weapon of war”.

Reuters reports that speaking at his general audience to thousands of people in St Peter’s Square, he said the block should be lifted because many millions of people depend on wheat from Ukraine, particularly in the world’s poorest countries.

9.12am BST

Oleh Synyehubov, Ukraine’s governor of Kharkiv, has posted to Telegram a situation update. He writes:

Kharkiv, Izium, Bohodukhiv and Chuhuiv districts of the region were shelled en masse. As a result of these shellings, four civilians were killed. A woman died in Zolochev, and a 12-year-old boy died in Ivanivka, Izium district. In the village Shestakove, Chuguiv district – two dead. A total of seven civilians were injured.

Fighting continues in Kharkiv region. The enemy is focused on defense and trying to hold his ground. In the Izium direction, the Russian occupiers are regrouping and preparing for new offensive attempts. Our defenders hold positions and inflict losses on the enemy. Last night, the Ukrainian armed forces shot down a Russian Ka-52 “Alligator” helicopter.

The enemy is acting insidiously, striking at civilians and civilian infrastructure. But he will answer for all his crimes! Ukraine will win!

The claims have not been verified.

Updated at 9.20am BST

8.51am BST

Russia criticises US decision to supply Ukraine with medium-range rocket systems

Russia has said that a US decision to supply advanced rocket systems and munitions to Ukraine was extremely negative and would increase the risk of a direct confrontation.

Reuters reports that the Russian deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, told the state news agency RIA Novosti that Moscow viewed US military aid to Ukraine “extremely negatively”.

Ryabkov singled out US plans to supply Kyiv with its high mobility artillery rocket system (Himars) – a multiple rocket launcher system that Washington said it would supply to Ukraine as part of its latest military aid package.

“Attempts to present the decision as containing an element of ‘self-restraint’ are useless,” Ryabkov said. “The fact that the United States, at the head of a group of states, is engaged in a purposeful pumping of weapons into the Kyiv regime is an obvious thing.”

Updated at 9.21am BST

8.39am BST

Russia’s RIA Novosti agency is reporting that overnight a video depicting children alleged to have been killed by Ukrainian forces in the Russian-occupied Donbas region of Ukraine was projected on to the US embassy in Moscow. The agency writes:

A video was projected on the walls of the US embassy in Moscow, stating that the US military “bears full responsibility for all the dead children of Donbas”.

The activists who organised the action timed it to the International Children’s Day.

The performance participants explained that they wanted to remind the world community that the White House has been sponsoring the Ukrainian authorities for many years.

Also from last night is this image of Gazprom’s building in Moscow, which is lit up at night with the letter “Z” in support of Russia’s latest invasion of Ukraine.

Updated at 9.22am BST

8.34am BST

The Swiss government has vetoed Denmark’s request to send Swiss-made armoured personnel carriers to Ukraine, citing its neutrality policy of not supplying arms to conflict zones, the Swiss broadcaster SRF has reported.

The Swiss War Material act requires foreign countries that buy Swiss arms to seek permission to re-export them.

Reuters notes that in April Switzerland vetoed the re-export of Swiss-made ammunition used in anti-aircraft tanks that Germany is sending to Ukraine. It has also rejected Poland’s request for arms to help neighbouring Ukraine.

There has been some debate about amending the War Material act.

Updated at 10.59am BST

8.33am BST

With the referendum[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-629701588f0870332c5e5018#block-629701588f0870332c5e5018] on whether to join the European Union’s common defence policy today, and the question over gas supplies from Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/jun/01/russia-ukraine-war-biden-approves-medium-range-rocket-systems-to-bolster-ukraine-defences-live?page=with:block-62970fc78f085aa1402f5309#block-62970fc78f085aa1402f5309], there is a lot of news coming out of Denmark this morning. And there is more – Denmark’s foreign minister, Jeppe Kofod, has said he will ask parliament tomorrow for Denmark’s support of the accession of Sweden and Finland to Nato. Before the two nations can formally join, their membership has to be ratified by every current member state, which includes founding member Denmark.

* Initially this block incorrectly said that Kofod would speak to parliament on Wednesday. It was amended at 8.40am after Reuters issued a correction. Apologies.

Updated at 9.23am BST

8.06am BST

There is a quick snap from Reuters here about the gas supply situation in Denmark. The Danish system operator Energinet has said that the flow of natural gas to Denmark via Germany remained steady today, despite Gazprom ’s decision to halt supplies.

Updated at 9.24am BST

8.05am BST

Away from the war in their homeland, Ukraine’s men’s football team are competing for a place in this year’s Fifa World Cup in Qatar. Nick Ames writes for us[https://www.theguardian.com/football/2022/jun/01/ukraine-players-show-their-nations-culture-is-alive-and-kicking] :

When Ukraine face Scotland at Hampden Park tonight it will be less a rebirth than a reminder that, much as Russia might wish to erase the country’s cultural identity, its football heritage remains truly alive. The act of playing for a World Cup place on Wednesday night, and over the next five days if all goes well, is both one of defiance and of expectation that, despite everything, good things can lie ahead.

Read more here: Ukraine players show their nation’s culture is alive and kicking[https://www.theguardian.com/football/2022/jun/01/ukraine-players-show-their-nations-culture-is-alive-and-kicking]

Related: Ukraine players show their nation’s culture is alive and kicking | Nick Ames[https://www.theguardian.com/football/2022/jun/01/ukraine-players-show-their-nations-culture-is-alive-and-kicking]

7.32am BST

Maksym Kozytskyi, the governor of Lviv, has confirmed on Telegram that again overnight there were no air raid warnings in the region, which is to the west of Ukraine and away from the main Russian theatre of operations.

7.20am BST

The UK’s ministry of defence has published their latest assessment of the situation on the ground in Ukraine. It says:

Russian ground operations remain tightly focused, with the weight of fire power concentrated within a small sector of Luhansk oblast. Over 30-31 May, fighting intensified in the streets of Sievierodonetsk, with Russian forces pushing closer to the town centre.

Over half of the town is likely now occupied by Russian forces, including Chechen fighters. Beyond the Donbas, Russia continues to conduct long-range missile strikes against infrastructure across Ukraine.

Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 1 June 2022

Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/eyvBTJ9Q1Y[https://t.co/eyvBTJ9Q1Y]

???? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ???? pic.twitter.com/GxpDQY3ua2[https://t.co/GxpDQY3ua2]

— Ministry of Defence ???? (@DefenceHQ) June 1, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1531881373262290944?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

7.08am BST

Denmark votes today in a referendum asking the nation whether it wants to end its decades-long opt-out from common European Union defence policies. The referendum was called on 6 March in the wake of Russia’s latest invasion of Ukraine.

Agence France-Presse reports that analysts’ predictions of the result have been cautious, given a low voter turnout expected in a country that has often said “no” to further EU integration. Eleven of Denmark’s 14 parties have urged voters to say “yes”, representing more than three-quarters of seats in parliament.

“We must always cast our ballots when there is a vote”, prime minister Mette Frederiksen urged Danes in the final televised debate of the campaign on Sunday.

“I believe with all my heart that we have to vote ‘yes’. At a time when we need to fight for security in Europe, we need to be more united with our neighbours”, she said.

The defence opt-out means the Nato founding member does not participate in EU foreign policy where defence is concerned, and does not contribute troops to EU military missions.

Polls close at 8pm local time (7pm BST) with the result expected about three hours later.

7.02am BST

Ukrainian hospitals are coming under enormous pressure, with trains carrying hundreds of injured people west from the front lines. Associated Press reports from Pokrovsk, where already-strained hospitals are trying to deal with an influx of trauma injuries from eastern cities like Sievierodonetsk, which are under heavy Russian bombing:

In wheelchairs and on stretchers, in ambulances and on train station platforms, they wait. Medical workers pull out ramps and wheel the patients onto the specially equipped train that will carry them westwards, away from the fighting raging in eastern Ukraine.

The train is a lifeline for the overwhelmed hospitals in cities and towns near Ukraine’s front lines that are struggling to cope with an influx of war wounded on top of their usual flow of sick patients.

Some hospitals in the east are buckling under the pressure of growing victim numbers, with already-reduced staff. From Pokrovsk:

Before the war “when there was normal work, we had 10 surgeons, now we have five,” said Dr. Ivan Mozhaiev. In his department, the 32-year-old is the only surgeon who remained out of five.

Updated at 7.03am BST

6.43am BST

689 children have been injured or killed in Ukraine as a result of the Russian invasion, the Verkhovna Rada - Ukrainian parliament - said this morning, in a post to its official Telegram.

As of the morning of June 1, the official number of child victims was 243, and the number of injured was 446.

It noted that those figures are not final, as work was still underway to try and confirm deaths in occupied territories and areas with active fighting. The true number is likely much higher: in cities like Sievierodonetsk[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/29/sievierodonetsk-bombing-so-intense-casualties-cant-be-assessed-officials-say], the mayor has said it is impossible to keep track of civilian casualties amid round-the-clock shelling.

6.19am BST

For more insight into why Ukraine has been pleading for arms like the missiles just promised by the US, I recommend our correspondent Luke Harding’s report from Mykolaiv[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/31/plea-for-heavy-weapons-ukraine-frontline-mykolaiv]. He spoke there to Ukrainian forces under constant fire, desperate for heavier weaponry. Roman Kostenko, a Ukrainian MP and special forces commander said this:

“Victory now depends on our international friends,” he said. “We have plenty of kalashnikovs and machine guns. If we get enough heavy arms Russia will not be able to go any further.” He stressed: “The west can change the outcome of this war.”

Related: ‘The west can change the outcome’: plea for heavy weapons on Ukraine frontline[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/31/plea-for-heavy-weapons-ukraine-frontline-mykolaiv]

5.55am BST

Reuters reports that Russia’s nuclear forces are holding drills in the Ivanovo province, northeast of Moscow. The report comes from Interfax news agency, citing the Russian defence ministry on Wednesday.

Some 1,000 servicemen are exercising in intense manoeuvres using over 100 vehicles including Yars intercontinental ballistic missile launchers, it said.

The report came shortly after Biden announced the US would be sending a $700m package of security assistance, including medium range missiles, to Ukraine.

5.38am BST

Biden to send mid-range rockets to bolster Ukraine defences

Some more detail on the military aid package announced by president Joe Biden :

The medium-range high mobility artillery rocket systems are part of $700m of security assistance for Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] from the US that will include helicopters, Javelin anti-tank weapon systems, tactical vehicles and more.

Biden said the United States the advanced rocket systems and munitions would allow Ukraine to “more precisely strike key targets on the battlefield”. The US is trying to strike the balance of assisting Ukraine without risking escalating the war further.

Senior US administration officials said Ukraine gave assurances the missiles would not be used to strike inside Russia:

These systems will be used by the Ukrainians to repel Russian advances on Ukrainian territory, but they will not be used on targets in Russian territory.”

Read the full story on that arms package here:

Related: US to send advanced rocket systems to Ukraine as Russia tightens grip on Sievierodonetsk[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jun/01/us-to-send-advanced-rocket-systems-to-ukraine-as-russia-tightens-grip-on-sievierodonetsk]

5.30am BST

Summary and welcome

Hello. I’m Tess McClure and welcome to our live coverage of the war in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

This morning, Joe Biden confirmed he will send more advanced, longer-range rocket systems to Kyiv, a critical weapon that Ukrainian leaders have been asking for as they struggle to stall Russian progress in the Donbas region. The medium-range high mobility artillery rocket systems are part of a new $700m tranche of security assistance from the US.

That missiles package is an attempt for the US to strike a balance - providing meaningful assistance, while avoiding escalating the war by providing weapons that could allow strikes deep into Russia.

It’s just after 7am in Ukraine. If you’re just waking up or dropping in to catch up on what’s been happening, here are some of the latest developments from overnight:

* Russian forces now control of most of the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk. Serhiy Gaidai, the local governor, said in an online post late on Tuesday that Russian shelling had made it impossible to deliver humanitarian supplies or evacuate people[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/31/russian-forces-sievierodonetsk-ukraine-fighting-city]. Civilians were told to stay underground.

* President Zelenskiy has blasted the “madness” of bombing a chemical plant in Sievierodonetsk. “Given the presence of large-scale chemical production in Sievierodonetsk, the Russian army’s strikes there, including blind air bombing, are just crazy.” Local officials said a nitric acid tank was hit and posted images of pink smoke billowing.

* Zelenskiy said Ukraine’s military forces have had some successes near Kherson and in parts of the Kharkiv region.

* Ukraine welcomed EU sanctions but criticised the “unacceptable” delay. Speaking alongside Slovakia’s President Zuzana Caputova in Kyiv, Zelenskiy noted that 50 days had passed between the fifth and sixth sanction packages.

* Ukraine was working on an international UN-led operation with naval partners to ensure a safe trade route for food exports, according to Ukraine’s foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, who said Russia was playing “hunger games with the world by blocking Ukrainian food exports”.

* Ukraine’s giant seed bank is in danger of being destroyed. The genetic code for nearly 2,000 crops rests in underground vaults based in Kharkiv, north-eastern Ukraine, which has come under intense bombing. Read more of the Guardian’s coverage how vital seed banks are in the climate crisis here[https://www.theguardian.com/food/ng-interactive/2022/apr/14/climate-crisis-food-systems-not-ready-biodiversity] and here[https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2022/apr/15/seed-banks-the-last-line-of-defense-against-a-threatening-global-food-crisis].

* The African Union warned EU leaders that Moscow’s blockade of Ukraine’s ports risked “a catastrophic scenario” of food shortages and price rises. Senegal’s president, Macky Sall, who chairs the union, said “the worst is perhaps ahead of us” if current global food supply trends continued.

* Ukraine would prosecute 80 suspected war criminals, said the prosecutor general, Iryna Venediktova. Representatives of a group of countries investigating Russian war crimes have met with the international criminal court prosecutor, Karim Khan, at The Hague.

* A senior Russian lawmaker has suggested kidnapping a Nato defence minister. Oleg Morozov from the United Russia party said on Rossiya-1 state TV he had a “fantastical plot” that a Nato war minister would travel to Kyiv and wake up in Moscow.

* Sanctions against Russia are directed at ordinary citizens and motivated by hatred, the former president, Dmitry Medvedev, has said. Medvedev, who advises Vladimir Putin on national security, said on Telegram that the “endless tango of economic sanctions” won’t touch the political elite but have brought losses for big business.

* Russia has further cut off gas supplies to Europe. Gazprom turned off the taps to a top Dutch trader and halted flows to some companies in Denmark and Germany.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/31/russia-cuts-gas-supplies-dutch-state-trader-sanctions-war] The intensification follows the EU’s decision to place an embargo on most Russian oil imports[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/30/eu-nears-compromise-agreement-for-partial-ban-on-russian-oil].

2022-06-01T04:30:55Z2022-06-02T00:59:20Zhttps://media.guim.co.uk/cfea02037859f720e6c6e33462207927a01551ee/639_514_2788_1673/500.jpgA[https://media.guim.co.uk/cfea02037859f720e6c6e33462207927a01551ee/639_514_2788_1673/500.jpgA] police officer checks a school during an evacuation of the town of Marinka, DonetskRussian President Vladimir Putin (L), Brazilian soccer legend Pele (C), and Argentinian soccer legend Diego Maradona (R) pose before the Final Draw of the FIFA World Cup 2018 at the State Kremlin Palace in Moscow, Russia, 01 December 2017.People cast their votes shortly before the polling station closes at Copenhagen City Hall, in Copenhagen, Denmark, 01 June 2022.Eva, 8, and Violetta, 7, eat candies and drink tea at a refugee shelter for children in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine May 16, 2022.An elderly woman next to a building damaged by an overnight missile strike in Sloviansk, Ukraine.A man stands next to a building damaged by an overnight missile strike in Sloviansk, Ukraine.Russian troops stand in front of the destroyed administration building of Azovstal iron and steel works.Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg, and US secretary of state Antony Blinken.Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskiy attends a news conference at a metro station in Kyiv, Ukraine.A dog named Patron (meaning cartridge in Ukrainian) trained to search for explosives at the celebration of Children’s Day in Lviv, Ukraine.The two-and-a-half-year-old jack russell has been given a medal for his services to the country by Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy.Patron has become a national symbol of Ukraine’s resistance against Russia, featuring regularly in videos on official Ukrainian social media channels.UN secretary general Antonio Guterres and Sweden’s prime minister Magdalena Andersson in Stockholm, Sweden.Tombs of people who died after Russia invasion are seen in Bucha cemetery, outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine.A view shows a school destroyed during Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in the town of Marinka, in Donetsk region, Ukraine.A police officer checks a school during an evacuation of local residents between shelling in the town of Marinka, in Donetsk region, Ukraine.The windows of the Gazprom building glow in the shape of the symbol Z in Moscow.Roman Kostenko, a Ukrainian MP and special forces commander in Mykolaiv

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220601ei61000p2


UPDATE 1-Carlsberg CFO to step down
241 字
2022 年 6 月 22 日 10:16 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
(Adds share reaction, analyst, background)

COPENHAGEN, June 22 (Reuters) - Carlsberg on Wednesday announced the departure of Chief Financial Officer Heine Dalsgaard, who had a leading role in a major cost-cutting programme to stem its losses in Russia.

Shares in the world's third-biggest brewer fell 2.2% at 0945 GMT, underperforming Copenhagen's benchmark index which fell 1.4%.

"This is disappointing for Carlsberg, as CFO Dalsgaard has been instrumental in driving efficiencies in the past years," Kepler analyst Richard Withagen said in a research note.

"We had expected CEO Cees ‘t Hart to step down as Carlsberg moves into the next phase of its strategy. This could now be delayed," he added.

Carlsberg will start the search for a new CFO while Dalsgaard will continue in Carlsberg until Dec. 31 at the latest, it said in a statement.

It entered the Russian market when it bought the Baltika beer brand in 2008 but the Russian growth adventure never took off and Carlsberg has for more than a decade fought tough sales amid a weak and sanction-hit economy and regulations to curb alcohol abuse.

Carlsberg, the Western brewer most exposed to the Russian market, joined rivals Anheuser-Busch InBev and Heineken in seeking to withdraw from Russia after Moscow invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. (Reporting by Stine Jacobsen, editing by Terje Solsvik and Louise Heavens)

Released: 2022-6-22T11:16:29.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220622ei6m01q1d


Carlsberg CFO to step down
232 字
2022 年 6 月 22 日 10:30 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) -Carlsberg on Wednesday announced the departure of Chief Financial Officer Heine Dalsgaard, who had a leading role in a major cost-cutting programme to stem its losses in Russia.

Shares in the world's third-biggest brewer fell 2.2% at 0945 GMT, underperforming Copenhagen's benchmark index which fell 1.4%.

"This is disappointing for Carlsberg, as CFO Dalsgaard has been instrumental in driving efficiencies in the past years," Kepler analyst Richard Withagen said in a research note.

"We had expected CEO Cees ‘t Hart to step down as Carlsberg moves into the next phase of its strategy. This could now be delayed," he added.

Carlsberg will start the search for a new CFO while Dalsgaard will continue in Carlsberg until Dec. 31 at the latest, it said in a statement.

It entered the Russian market when it bought the Baltika beer brand in 2008 but the Russian growth adventure never took off and Carlsberg has for more than a decade fought tough sales amid a weak and sanction-hit economy and regulations to curb alcohol abuse.

Carlsberg, the Western brewer most exposed to the Russian market, joined rivals Anheuser-Busch InBev and Heineken in seeking to withdraw from Russia after Moscow invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24.

(Reporting by Stine Jacobsen, editing by Terje Solsvik and Louise Heavens)

Released: 2022-6-22T10:30:45.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220701ei6m01wpb


EMEA Morning Briefing: Hopes Over Inflation, Interest Rates to Lift Stocks Again
2203 字
2022 年 6 月 27 日 04:18 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

No major data or earnings scheduled; G7 summit continues; ECB forum on central banking

Opening Call:

The rebound in European stocks will likely continue on Monday as investors reassess the expected path of Fed interest-rate hikes. In Asia, stocks climbed; Treasurys sold off; the dollar steadied and commodities were mixed, with oil near-flat but gold rising.

Equities:

European shares look set to extend their advance on Monday after the latest U.S. economic data tempered investors' expectations of steep Federal Reserve interest-rate hikes, supporting strong gains on Wall Street.

The market now seems to be interpreting recent signs of slowing growth as a reason for the Fed to potentially have "a lighter touch" in its battle with inflation, said Dave Grecsek, managing director for investment strategy and research at Aspiriant .

The thinking seems to be that maybe "we really can avoid a recession," he said, with the Fed potentially needing to become less aggressive in hiking rates to bring down inflation as the economy slows.

Commodity prices have been falling recently, and judging by Fed funds futures, investors now see a lower peak in the path of the Fed's benchmark interest-rate target.

Investors expect the Fed funds rate to peak at between 3.25% and 3.50% in December, down from 3.50% to 3.75% one week ago. Furthermore, investors now expect the Fed to start cutting rates roughly one year from today.

"We've seen a two-week drop in commodity prices and now we are seeing Fed funds futures pricing in rate cuts out in 2023. The thing holding back the market was endless rate hikes, if we've found the terminal rate then stocks can make headway here," said Mike Antonelli , a market strategist at Baird.

Forex:

The dollar steadied in Asia having weakened on Friday, as concerns over aggressive Fed rate increases eased somewhat, helped by falling commodity prices.

But economic forecasts remain challenging, which could extend the dollar's rally. U.S. spending and inflation data this week are likely to be closely watched by currency investors.

Capital Economics said the global economy is likely to remain favorable for the dollar for the time being based on its assumption that growth will slow, although a recession will be averted. In this case, "the U.S. will remain relatively well-placed to weather tighter financial conditions." In a worse scenario, the greenback would still benefit from its safe-haven reputation.

Read: Central Banks Should Raise Rates Sharply or Risk High-Inflation Era, BIS Warns

Bonds:

Treasury yields continued to rise early Monday, as investors sell safe-haven bonds, with the latest U.S. data pointing to an economic slowdown that some investors hope will mean less aggressive monetary tightening.

UBS said there is a chance quantitative tightening could end next year, depending on the supply of short-term Treasurys. Its baseline scenario calls for the Fed to start talking about reducing the pace of its balance sheet runoff by mid-2023.

"Afterwards, we expect the Fed to implement a cut to the pace in late '23 or early '24." But UBS said that T-bill supply is falling, on track to end the second quarter with a decline of about $400 billion. A low level of bill supply could end up "increasing the probability of an end to QT already during 2023."

Read: Sanctions Push Russia to First Foreign Default Since Bolshevik Revolution

Energy:

Oil futures wavered between small gains and losses in Asia, as the tight supply outlook countered recession worries.

"Tightness in oil markets persists as disruptions to Russian oil grow. Crude oil remains in backwardation, in some cases at unprecedented levels, which indicates major supply scarcity," said ANZ.

That said, concerns about Fed rate rises and recession fears are weighing on investor sentiment and may cap any gains.

Other News:

The G7 was near to an agreement on a price cap on Russian oil imports in a bid to hurt Moscow's export revenues. Commonwealth Bank of Australia said this would be done by only allowing transportation and insurance of Russian crude and refined products that are below a yet-to-be-determined price, thereby bringing down the effective price of the exported oil.

CBA cautioned that it was unclear whether it would work due to possible retaliatory actions from Russia.

Read: G7 Nears Agreement on Exploring New Sanction Capping Russian Oil Price

Metals:

Gold prices were higher after the G7 said it would stop buying Russian bullion.

SPI Asset Management said the planned move might not support gold prices in the long term because Russia was already likely not exporting much of its domestic output.

"It was assumed that Russia would keep domestic production at home to soak up surplus dollars and prevent excessive appreciation of the ruble."

CBA said the ban on Russian gold imports was unlikely to materially move spot prices. Russia accounts for as much as one in every ten ounces of the precious metal produced globally, but gold prices typically don't gyrate with supply or demand headlines the way other mined commodities do.

"A ban also just formalizes what has largely been in place via sanctions, " CBA said.

Read: G7 to Expand Sanctions on Moscow With Ban on Russian Gold

---

Copper rose slightly in a possible technical rebound after prices last week suffered their largest weekly drop since June 2021.

TD Securities said it has taken profit on its tactical short position in copper, owing to factors such as technically driven outflows running out of steam.

However, the brokerage's market-timing framework still suggests that LME price action is most consistent with a downtrend, and given a deteriorating macroeconomic backdrop, TD will seek to "re-engage downside in copper."

---

Iron ore futures rose on possible bargain-hunting after prices recently dropped to attractive levels.

Citi Research said that following a recent selloff, it recommends buying the dip as iron ore looks well-positioned in the event of further stimulus measures.

Iron ore seems highly exposed to China's further policy easing, particularly relative to copper, which appears more globally focused and exposed to European and U.S. weakening.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

China's Industrial Profit Fell by a Narrower Margin in May as Covid-19 Curbs Eased

BEIJING--China's industrial profit fell by a narrower margin in May, as Covid-19 restrictions gradually eased and production started to resume, according to official data released Monday.

Industrial profit in May dropped 6.5% from a year earlier, compared with an 8.5% decline in April, said the National Bureau of Statistics.

   
 
 
G-7 Nears Agreement on Exploring New Sanction Capping Russian Oil Price

The Group of Seven club of wealthy democracies is inching toward an agreement on expanding its sanctions against Russia by looking for a mechanism to cap the purchase price of Russian oil, officials said, but the details are still being worked out.

The move, under discussion at the three-day G-7 summit in the Bavarian Alps that began Sunday, would come on top of a ban on the purchase of Russian gold, officials said. They said oil is the most lucrative export for the Kremlin, while gold makes up a significant part of the state revenues that fund Russian President Vladimir Putin 's war.

   
 
 
Sanctions Push Russia to First Foreign Default Since Bolshevik Revolution

Russia was poised to default on its foreign debt for the first time since 1918, pushed into delinquency not for lack of money but because of punishing Western sanctions over its invasion of Ukraine.

Russia missed payments on two foreign-currency bonds as of late Sunday, according to holders of the bonds. The day marks the expiration of a 30-day grace period since the country was due to pay the equivalent of $100 million in dollars and euros to bondholders.

   
 
 
Pension Funds Plunge Into Riskier Bets-Just as Markets Are Struggling

U.S. public pension funds don't have nearly enough money to pay for all their obligations to future retirees. A growing number are adopting a risky solution: investing borrowed money.

As both stock and bond markets struggle, it's a precarious gamble.

   
 
 
Central Banks Should Raise Rates Sharply or Risk High-Inflation Era, BIS Warns

FRANKFURT-From Sydney to Washington to Zurich, major central banks have stepped up the pace of interest-rate increases in recent weeks, reflecting concerns that inflation isn't retreating as expected.

It might not be enough.

   
 
 
G-7 to Expand Sanctions on Moscow With Ban on Russian Gold

TELFS-BUCHEN, Austria-The U.S. and the U.K. will join other leading countries in banning Russian gold imports, broadening a sanctions regime against Moscow as an international summit began Sunday, officials said.

The move, coming as part of the Group of Seven meeting in the Bavarian Alps, is the latest part of an effort to punish Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, officials said, noting that gold is a major Russian export commodity after energy.

   
 
 
Value Investors Bet Recent Market Leadership Is Just the Start

Cliff Asness and Rob Arnott say value stocks finally have room to run after years of lagging behind.

Although few corners of the stock market have emerged unscathed in 2022's dizzying selloff, value shares-traditionally considered those that trade at a low multiple of their book value, or net worth-have held up better than most. By one measure, they are on track to beat shares of fast-growing companies by the widest margin since 2001.

   
 
 
Europe Turns to an Unlikely Source to Replace Russian Energy: Ukraine

Europe has turned to an unlikely source for help in its race to keep the lights on this winter: war-torn Ukraine.

27 Jun 2022 00:18 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Hopes Over Inflation, -2-

With Russia choking off natural gas supplies that feed furnaces and electricity generating plants, European Union members and Kyiv have accelerated plans to fully link up Ukraine's electricity grid. The project represents a remarkable turnaround from the early days of the war, when Ukraine braced for widespread blackouts as Russia attacked the country's infrastructure.

   
 
 
Global Tax Deal Faces Roadblocks From Hungary, Congress

U.S. and European officials are trying to inject fresh momentum into a global drive for a minimum corporate tax rate, but they are finding it difficult to navigate around a series of roadblocks, namely Democrats' narrow margins in Congress and consequential objections from Hungary.

Nearly 140 countries agreed last year to impose a 15% minimum tax on large companies, paving the way for the most significant overhaul of international tax rules in a century. Getting to that point took years of negotiations that often seemed close to collapse. Now, eight months later, there has been little progress on changing national laws to implement the tax.

   
 
 
Europe's Search for Natural Gas Runs Up Against Climate Goals

Europe's scramble to replace Russian natural gas has set in motion plans for new gas production and infrastructure world-wide that critics say risk throwing the world off track in meeting the Paris accord's climate targets.

In the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Europe is moving quickly to set up new import terminals for liquefied natural gas from elsewhere. U.S. producers are expanding their export facilities as Europe's thirst for gas adds to already-strong Asian demand. Such infrastructure can take years to build and is usually predicated on lifespans lasting decades. European utilities, meanwhile, are negotiating long-term supply deals with gas exporters in the U.S., the Middle East and Africa.

   
 
 
Iran Nuclear Talks to Resume Soon, EU Foreign-Policy Chief Says

Negotiations on restoring the 2015 Iranian nuclear deal will resume again in the coming days, the European Union 's foreign-policy chief, Josep Borrell , said Saturday during a trip to Tehran, although the prospects of reaching a deal remained far from certain.

The negotiations have been stuck for the past 3 1/2 months, with a deal blocked by a dispute over the scope of lifting U.S. sanctions on Iran. The talks are aimed at agreeing on the steps needed for Iran and the U.S. to come back into compliance with the 2015 agreement, which removed most international sanctions on Iran in exchange for tight but temporary restrictions on Iran's nuclear program.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Monday

05:00/FIN: May PPI

06:00/NOR: May Retail Sales

07:00/SPN: May PPI

08:30/UK: Mar CANCELLED: Card Spending statistics

09:00/MLT: May PPI

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

June 27, 2022 00:18 ET (04:18 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220627ei6r0001t


News; Domestic
Six Dead, Dozens Injured After Illinois Shooting; Ukraine Shifting Defenses After Fall Of Luhansk Region; Ukraine Unveils $750 Billion Recovery Plan As Russia Sets Sights On Donetsk; Moscow Hails Victory In Luhansk Region; Ukraine Withdraws From Key Eastern Of Lysychansk; U.S.: Gunfire From Israeli Position Likely Killed Abu Akleh. Aired 2-3p ET
Isa Soares, Scott McLean, Brynn Gingras, Stephen Collinson, Nada Bashir, Hadas Gold, Pete Muntean
8655 字
2022 年 7 月 4 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[14:00:00]

CHRIS COVELLI, LAKE COUNTY, ILLINOIS: Information and again, very sad day here.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What type of weapon is being recovered?

COVELLI: It was a rifle.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have any information on where this supposed weapon could be right now? Could be at all barricaded?

COVELLI: There's no indication he's barricaded anywhere or has any hostages that has been kind of circling around. There's no indication of that. Investigators are very quickly working to try to identify who this person is and try to figure out where he is at.

(CROSSTALK)

So, it does appear he was shooting from a roof -- the roof that he was shooting from, I don't have that information right now. So, right now, there's multiple agencies, Highland Park Police is leading the initial incident response. The Lake County Major Crime Taskforce is working directly with the FBI on forwarding the investigation.

Of course, working with Highland Park Police detectives. They're very involved and they will be point throughout all of this.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Any idea --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: High capacity magazine along the --

COVELLI: That information I can't release just yet.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have any evidence he had more than one popping on him?

COVELLI: That information I can't release just yet.

(CROSSTALK) But we would still -- we would still consider him to be armed and dangerous.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you confident it's only one shooter?

COVELLI: At this time, that's the information we have that it was one shooter.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Any idea how many shots were fired?

COVELLI: We're still working on that. We'll take two more questions. Yes sir.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE)

COVELLI: We're not going to go into the specifics of where the gun was recovered, but a firearm, a rifle was recovered.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you know the ages --

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What's the ages?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The ages of those who passed away?

COVELLI: We will have more information on that. We're working with the Lake County Coroner's office, they too are very involved in this investigation, and we will be releasing that as soon as we can. Thanks, we'll be back, OK?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: To be clear, only six dead and then 25 --

COVELLI: We have six confirmed deceased, and we have approximately two dozen that are seriously injured. OK, thank you.

ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT: You have been listening there to the commander Chris O'Neill, as well as the mayor of Illinois with that breaking news to bring you in the last 45 minutes or so. Six people have been killed, two dozen or so as you just heard there, have been transported to hospitals with injuries. We know that the person, the shooter is still on the run. The suspect is still on the loose.

As you heard, they said that he is armed and that he is dangerous. Calling on people, of course, to remain indoors, to call their loved ones, but of course, this is clearly an active situation. They also give the details that he's a white male, between 18 to 20 years of age, black hair, but wearing a blue T-shirt. They have recovered a rifle, but this is clearly an ongoing situation, but a traumatic and horrific day today in Illinois.

Six people killed in Highland Park and two dozen or so people have been injured. We'll stay of course, on top of this breaking news as soon as there's more developments. We'll of course, bring it to you. I want to focus your attention now and turn to Ukraine, because as we've heard in the last 24 hours or so, Ukraine says it may have lost the battle, but it can still win the war. It is shifting defenses today after the last city still under its control in the Luhansk region fell to Russian forces. The regional governor says its decision to withdraw from Lysychansk was quote, "very painful". But he says it was the right move considering the cost of continuing to face vastly superior Russian firepower. Russia now effectively controls all of Luhansk, and it's focused on pushing ahead in neighboring Donetsk region.

In an effort, as you can see in your map there, the seize the entire Donbas which was its goal all along. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy vows his troops will regain lost territory with the help of western weapons. Let's get more now from CNN's Scott McLean who is live for us in Kyiv. A very good evening to you, Scott. So, Ukraine and President Zelenskyy very much still define Scott, but this is a significant military victory for Russia. What does this mean for the battle in the Donbas?

SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Isa, look, the Ukrainians say that they are going to fight another day, but that day is not today. The situation in the Donbas for the Ukrainians is not looking good. Of course, they've had success elsewhere, they've managed to take back Bilhorod(ph) and Kharkiv in the north, Mykolaiv in the south, they just retook Snake Island a few days ago in the Black Sea.

But this particular part of the Donbas, in the Luhansk region, the Ukrainians say that they were facing some of the toughest fighters along the entire front line. These are the same troops that have been fighting for Luhansk for the last eight years on and off. They also know the area quite well. And so, some of the tactics that the Ukrainians have been able to use elsewhere, like taking down all the street signs to try to disorient their enemy, didn't work so well in this case.

But you mentioned it, the main problem for the Ukrainians, they say is the Russian superior fire powder. They say that they simply did not have the artillery.

[14:05:00]

Case in point, my colleague Phil Black was at the frontlines a couple of days ago, and he met with some Ukrainian soldiers who told him that, look, for every one heavy shot we're firing, they're firing 10 or 20. It is simply not sustainable. And that is why we saw the very slow, but sure progress of the Russians, being able to move westward. Isa?

SOARES: Yes, and that's been the problem all along. They've been outmanned and outgunned for sometime as you and I have seen. But that's the battlefield, Scott. You know, there's another fight that Ukraine has on its hands and it's over stolen grain that's reportedly in Turkey. What more can you tell us this hour, Scott?

MCLEAN: Yes, so, this is something that the Ukrainians have been accusing the Russians of for a while now -- stealing grain. Of course, grain is one of Ukraine's biggest exports, it leaves global food security hanging in the balance if that grain can't get to market. And it all seems to have reached ahead in this one particular case of a ship that is now just off the coast of Turkey.

It left Ukraine, Berdiansk, along the Black Sea coast, in the occupied part of Ukraine in late June. It has now just on Friday arrived off Turkey, but the Turkish authorities are not allowing it to dock at port, nor are they allowing it to go back to where it came from. They are holding it there until they can get more clarity from political leaders and law enforcement in Turkey, as to what exactly they should do with it.

The Ukrainians, they can't prove that this grain was stolen. But they would like the Turkish customs authority to go on board, to investigate and try to figure out where exactly this grain came from, before allowing that grain to come into port and then get distributed to who knows where. So, we're in a bit --

SOARES: Yes --

MCLEAN: Of a holding pattern right now, the Russians have denied any accusations of stealing any kind of grain. And I should point out that in this case as well, Isa, the company that owns the Russian-flagged ship, they're also denying any wrongdoing. They say that they have the paperwork to show that all of this is legal and above board.

SOARES: Scott McLean for us there in Kyiv, thanks very much, Scott, good to see you. Well, even as the war rages, an international conference is underway in Switzerland to help create a roadmap of sort for Ukraine's reconstruction. President Zelenskyy says it's the common responsibility of quote, "the entire democratic world".

He virtually addressed the conference in Lugano, as you can see there, today, while his prime minister attended in person, saying Ukraine's recovery could cost $750 billion. Just before the show, I spoke with Danish Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod, I began by asking what the roadmap for Ukraine, well, what it might look like.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JEPPE KOFOD, MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, DENMARK: First of all, you see destruction of civilian buildings, hospitals, schools, infrastructure, all of what makes a country work for the people. And therefore, in order to get people back to more normalcy despite the wars going on, is to help them rebuilding their -- for example, their water systems, their energy systems, the infrastructure, because that's also a way to show, well, it might be that Russia, with its illegal war, destroying Ukraine, destroying cities like Mariupol or Mykolaiv, other places.

But we will as soon as possible, we will start rebuilding. So, kind of the sign of destruction is removed as soon as possible. That gives also morally support to the Ukrainian people in the long war that they are in unfortunately. A war that is devastating to them.

SOARES: I know, as you clearly lined out, outlined there for us, Mister, the plan is to rebuild infrastructure, but also I suspect to foster some sort of stability in their long-term prosperity. But how can -- KOFOD: Yes --

SOARES: Ukraine and its allies achieve this without Russian cooperation or at least Russian non-interference here?

KOFOD: Well, I mean, we follow all the tracks to help Ukraine. We also help Ukraine with weapons also from the Danish side, also offensive than heavy weapons. We also sanction Russia, so it will be costly for them to continue the war. We have accountability and justice track where we will try Russia for the war atrocities they're doing in Ukraine, and also reconstruction.

And I think it's important to do it also in areas where they might be relatively peaceful now, whereas possible to show that we will not let Russia -- Putin's Russia terrorize the Ukrainian people and make this war against them, which is also a war of intimidation, of destruction, of trying to scare the Ukrainian people from doing their normal lives.

So, whatever we can do to help them to get back to normalcy as soon as possible, the better it is.

[14:10:00]

SOARES: I hear you saying it's costly, but that hasn't deterred President Putin. That hasn't stopped him at all. He clearly is in this for the long game. So, let me ask you that question again, I mean, is the diplomatic path kind of dead in the water, because not so long ago, we were hearing from President Macron that Russia has -- shouldn't really be humiliated in Ukraine. So, how can leaders bring this to an end?

KOFOD: Well, I think it's very important to understand that Ukraine has to win, and Russia has to lose, for the sake of Ukraine and its whole future as a country, as an identity. So Ukraine has to have its freedom back, has to have its territory, integrity and sovereignty back. We cannot rest, the West and the rest of the world, before we achieve that goal, with the Ukrainians.

So, Putin has to lose. That's very important. It's costly. Yes, it's also costly for us. We see the impact of the war, rising energy prices, inflation. We see it also -- it's costly to provide weapons and so on. But we have to do it, because if we do not stop Putin now, the cost for the whole world will be much higher in the future.

SOARES: But if this does drag on, Minister, do you believe, like some has suggest in the West, that perhaps, Ukraine has to reach a compromise. What are your thoughts on that?

KOFOD: Well, nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine deciding themselves. They have to decide what to do. And so far, they are fighting fiercely for their freedom, to counter the illegal war of conquest that Russia is doing right now on Ukrainian soil. And we have to help them with every available meals that -- means that we have.

To provide them weapons, to provide them also training, to ensure that they can defend themselves against this. That is really what we have to focus on. At the same time, rebuilding from foreign aid, and also accountability and justice. So, all of these facts are combined the way we can counter this Russian war.

You're right, it might take months, years, who knows? But we have to continue until Putin is defeated. This has to be the biggest mistake he ever did in his life, Putin, we have to show it, and we have to show it by the unity that we have had also so far.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: Danish Foreign Minister, and we'll of course, return to Ukraine in about 20 minutes or so. Now, the suspect in Sunday's mall shooting in Denmark is now being held in a psychiatric facility. His case was heard in court just a few hours ago, he's accused of opening fire at a shopping mall in Copenhagen and killing three people. The city's police chief inspector says the crime doesn't appear to be an act of terror. Have a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SOREN THOMASSEN, CHIEF OF POLICE INSPECTOR, COPENHAGEN: There is nothing in our investigation or the documents that we have been looking at, or the items we found, or the witness statements we have, that could indicate that it was an act of terror. Our assessment is that the victims are random victims, that it is not motivated by gender or anything else.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: Police had said earlier that the 22-year-old suspect was known to psychiatric professionals when the Danish Foreign Minister also spoke to me about the shooting.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KOFOD: It was a tragic event, we were celebrating Denmark, Summer time, schools -- Summer recess of schools and celebrations in the city and normal people going to malls, to concerts, and suddenly, a gunman is killing innocent -- arbitrary killings in a center in Copenhagen, this is really terrible, and all my thoughts goes to the victims, their family, their friends. So, we will come out of this, but what we know is that this guy did it himself.

He has a mental disorder, apparently. And there is no -- there's no terror -- it's not an act of terrorism, it's not linked to terrorism, such is of course, good, but it's really a tragedy for the people, and for all of us. We have not experienced that in Denmark in a long time, so this is really bad for us. But we will overcome it, I'm sure.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: And still to come tonight --

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I am heartbroken for the women of America. It's a backward step. And my heart goes out to them.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: An Irish woman who lost two children to prenatal development problems speaks out on the necessity of legal abortion that have fears now for women in America. I'll have her story after this short break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[14:15:00]

SOARES: Welcome back everyone. We're returning now to our breaking news story this hour. Police in the U.S. state of Illinois say six people have been killed in a mass shooting in a 4th of July parade. More than 30 people were sent to hospital with injuries. It happened in Highland Park, a suburb just north of Chicago. Brynn Gingras is following this from New York for us.

And Brynn, we just had in the last 20 minutes or so, a press conference from officials who talked about this being horrific obviously, a senseless act of violence, but also this is very much still an active situation.

BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It is an active situation, Isa. They say that they have a firearm, a rifle recovered, but yet, they don't have the person who is responsible. They are still looking for the shooter, they believe it's actually one person at the moment. But of course, this is so early in the investigation. They've given a description, of course, it can change, but they say they believe it's a white male, 18 to 20 years old with a small built and was last seen wearing a blue shirt.

So, they have a description, they have the firearm. They are now going from -- with SWAT, door-to-door, trying to locate this individual. We know that this law enforcement response is huge. It's on the local level with the police there at Highland Park, Illinois, which is a suburb of Chicago. We know Chicago police are helping out, we know the FBI is helping out, we know state police there in Illinois are also helping out.

So just a huge response. But just terrified parade goers. We've talked to many witnesses of this who described how they could hear the rapid fire of what sounded to them like an automatic weapon, coming from a building up above. That's something that law enforcement is looking into. Was this person shooting off of a roof down toward the parade?

The shooting took place only a few minutes after this parade started. But a lot of injuries. You mentioned more than 30. We've learned 31 people in the hospital right now. And we're told by a spokesperson at the hospital that treats these trauma-level injuries that a vast majority of them are gunshot wound victims. We're still trying to figure out the ages because you can imagine, 4th of July celebration here in --

SOARES: Yes -- GINGRAS: America, young people, families, all sitting around. You can see the scene, people just in chaos, leaving that area, leaving behind blankets and strollers and shoes, just trying to get away from the sound of that gunfire. But that -- it's just devastating. Six people confirmed dead at the moment by authorities. Isa?

SOARES: Absolutely terrifying, as you paint of course the holiday in the United States, 4th of July. A time of course when so many families, Brynn, would be outside -- would have been outside with their loved ones celebrating this holiday. What did you hear from officials in terms of their next move?

[14:20:00]

Because obviously, we do now hear the suspect is on the run. So, what's the next step here from officials?

GINGRAS: Yes, right now, it's just mobilizing. They have a commander there on the scene that they have connecting with the FBI, and like I said, all those different agencies.

SOARES: Yes --

GINGRAS: And they're just going door-to-door looking, possibly, for this suspect. And you know, they even said -- he said that they're getting multiple calls from different towns in that area and other states, saying should we continue on with our celebrations? And their -- you know, advice was, use your best judgment.

We know the NYPD here in New York City is basically going to now be putting more patrols, even more so than they do for the biggest celebrations of July 4th for tonight's celebrations. So, that could go on. But there are many towns in that area that are canceling all their events because of this, understandably so, since this suspect is still on the loose. So, right now --

SOARES: Yes --

GINGRAS: That's priority number one, of course, he says, to find this person.

SOARES: Yes, on the loose and on the loose and armed and dangerous, as officials did say. Brynn Gingras, keep us updated on all the developments. Thanks very much --

GINGRAS: Right, thanks --

SOARES: Now, America's grand experiment in democracy is marking its 246th birthday tonight. It was on July the 4th 1776, that 13 American colonies declared independence from Great Britain. But it is a gloomy birthday besieged by mass shootings, stunned by the Supreme Court overturning abortion rights, pressed by soaring inflation and divided over former President Donald Trump.

A new poll indicates 85 percent of Americans say their country is heading in the wrong direction. CNN's Stephen Collinson is in Washington, tracking the nation's mood on this 4th of July. And Stephen, you know, of course, we've watched another mass shooting in the United States. But I messaged a friend earlier today and I wished her happy 4th of July. And the answer back was, well, there's not much to celebrate. Talk to us about the mood this year.

STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER: Yes, Isa, I think there's quite a widespread feeling, and this latest incident in Chicago is an indication of just how these mass shootings, for example, have begun to sort of penetrate even more every aspect of American life, from churches, to schools, to graduation parties. Now, you know, tragically, even a July 4th Independence Day parade.

That is one of the factors that I think are playing into this rather grim national mood. You mentioned the deep polarization in politics. We've got high inflation, record gasoline prices. It seems at the moment, that the United States domestically, at least, is barreling from crisis to crisis, coming out of a once-in-a-century pandemic that exacerbated all sorts of problems and political divides.

And the question is, is there anybody politically, who is able to leave the country out of this? Of course, President Joe Biden vowed to fix America's problems when he came to office. But there does seem to be more of a tearing apart of America, politically, right now, because of all these factors, rather than coming together and the unity that you might expect on July 4th.

SOARES: Yes, how much -- I mean, you hinted at this here, but I do wonder how much, Stephen, these tensions are being exacerbated, do you think by economic pressures? I mean, you mentioned inflation, but also gas prices, worries of recession here.

COLLINSON: Certainly, that is playing into this because, you know, rising prices at the supermarket, if every time you drive past a garage, you know, gas is at another record level, although, it's a lot less than people in Europe are used to paying. But --

SOARES: Yes --

COLLINSON: Even so, that is something that's visceral, right? That's something that everybody feels every day across each strata of society, in all their budgets. And so, now, I think intensifies the sense of unease. At the same time, we've got a very divided political country as you mentioned. This was something that Donald Trump exploited during his presidency and his campaign.

And by all accounts, he's preparing to launch a 2024 campaign as soon as he can. You have two strata of society. You have a rural, conservative, religious section of the United States, and that's clashing really with more moderate, suburban, more liberal Americans. Two sides of the country who see each of the other one as an existential threat to what they believe their country stands for.

SOARES: Stephen Collinson, always great to get your insight, I appreciate it, Stephen.

COLLINSON: Thanks. SOARES: Well, perhaps no issue has exposed the political divide in America recently, more than the Supreme Court depriving women of their constitutional right to abortion. Millions of American women see it not just as a healthcare issue, but as an assault on their freedom to control their own lives. It's a ruling that's echoing all the way to Ireland, which recently legalized abortion, but with considerable restrictions.

I traveled to Dublin to speak with one Irish woman about the anguish as well as the trauma she experienced when her pregnancy took devastating turns, experiences that may become a reality now for so many women across America.

[14:25:00]

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SOARES (voice-over): Alison is still grieving her boys. Their tiny heartbeat recorded and stored inside a teddy.

ALISON LYNCH, IRISH MOTHER WHO FACED TRAUMATIC LOSS OF HER BABY: I can listen to his little heartbeat anytime.

SOARES: A painful reminder of the lives lost and the pain endured.

LYNCH: Little hand is there that they've taken, so I got that.

SOARES: Over the past three years, Alison has conceived twice through IVF with donor sperm. Her first pregnancy was going smoothly until 25 weeks in, when she says abnormalities were detected.

LYNCH: That was the moment that, yes, the bottom fell out of my world.

SOARES: Under Irish law, abortion can only be carried out until 12 weeks of pregnancy. After that, it's only legal if the mother's health is in serious danger or if two doctors determine the fetus is likely to die before or within 28 days of birth.

LYNCH: They were fairly sure he was going to die, but they didn't know when?

SOARES: With no clear diagnosis, Alison couldn't get an abortion in Ireland. And now, had a decision to make.

LYNCH: If he did survive, because of all of the brain issues he would have, multiple daily seizures, epileptics seizures, he would have no mode of function, he'd never be able to sit up or support himself.

SOARES: So, at 30 weeks pregnant, she decided to travel to England to terminate her pregnancy.

LYNCH: You are essentially deciding how you would like your child to die. Would you like them to die slowly or would you like them to die quickly? That's what it boils down to, horrific as it sounds. SOARES: Two years later, still grieving her first born, Alison conceives again, but this time, she lets the pregnancy run its course. The baby only lives for an hour.

(on camera): It has taken more than 35 years to change Ireland's constitution to legalize abortion. But, as you just heard from Alison's ordeal there, that victory has been far from perfect. Even women who desperately want children are facing the most agonizing decisions as to whether to continue on with their pregnancy.

According to the U.K. government, more than 200 women from the Republic of Ireland have traveled to England over the past year for abortions. More than half of those because of fetal abnormalities, which sometimes can only be detected past that 12-week legal mark. A cautionary tale, perhaps, of the trauma American women may face as they fight on.

(voice-over): No one knows the fight ahead better than abortion rights campaigner, Ailbhe Smyth who helped turn the tide for women's rights with a historic victory in a 2018 referendum. A fight she tells me is not over yet.

AILBHE SMYTH, IRISH ABORTION RIGHTS ACTIVIST: We have to keep expanding that law and liberalizing it, hopefully, to the point where someday abortion will no longer be part of legislation, but will be integrated into healthcare.

SOARES: But while she says Ireland is finally on the right path, the United States, she tells me, has taken a wrong turn.

SMYTH: We did think, genuinely, of the U.S. as the land of the free. But that's not the case anymore. To see that being overturned by frankly, a bunch of bigoted men, it's absolutely disgraceful.

SOARES: I asked Alison for her thoughts on the U.S. Supreme Court's decision.

LYNCH: I am heartbroken for the women of America. It's a backwards step. And my heart goes out to them.

SOARES: A feeling that perhaps only those who have walked this journey and carried the weight of loss can truly understand.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SOARES: And my thanks to Lynch there to speak to us tonight. Thanks very much Alison. And still to come tonight, more on the war in Ukraine. Russia says it will push forward in the east of the country, after claiming victory over a critically important region. Plus, the U.S. has examined the bullet that killed Palestinian-American journalist Shereen Abu Aqleh, we'll tell you what they are saying. Those two stories after a very short break.

[14:30:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK) SOARES: Welcome back to the show everyone. Now Russia's military has its sights set on more territory in Ukraine after claiming victory over the Luhansk region marked on the top right of the map on your screen. If Russia can take the adjacent Donetsk region, it will be able to control the entire Donbas area. Vladimir Putin congratulated his troops for driving Ukrainian forces out of the strategic city of Lysychansk. He said this to his military chief earlier. Have a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): All the troops involved in active fighting who have achieved the success, victory in the Luhansk region, should rest and increase their combat capabilities.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: Let's get more on all this. Nada Bashir is on the story for us. And really what I heard from that little clip, Nada, is basically him saying, well, we're in it for the long haul.

NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Yes, absolutely. This has really played into one of Russia's primary goals, which is, of course, as you mentioned, to gain control over the entire Donbas region to establish that all-important land corridor between Russian territory and Crimea. Now, of course, we do know that Ukrainian forces have been forced to withdraw from that critical city of Lysychansk essentially placing the entire Luhansk region in Russia's hands. And that, of course, is one of Russia's primary goals.

President Putin there, directly addressing the troops fighting in the region, congratulating them for hitting, in his words, achieving victory in the Luhansk region. But you also heard that somewhat warning tone of, you know, to conserve your military capability for what is to come next. And that is, of course, what President Zelenskyy will be focusing on, too.

SOARES: And if we look at that, if I can just MapReduce it, Ana, to bring that map up again, because I think it's really important to our viewers, where this might be going because we -- obviously Lysychansk is one, but if you look at the Donbas, that was the aim from day one. Does Russia mean -- Putin sounds very competent. Does Ukraine have the means to keep this fight on given that it's outmanned, really, so far?

BASHIR: Absolutely. Outmanned and outgunned. We've heard from Ukrainian military officials, from President Zelenskyy himself, stressing that Ukraine simply needs more modern weaponry from its Western allies in need to -- in order to hold these lines and in order to counter Russia's offensive. And, of course, we do know that Russia is looking now to focus its attention on the neighboring Donetsk region to establish that total control over the Donbas.

We heard from the British Ministry of Defense today issuing its latest intelligence report, a warning that Russia will almost certainly switch its focus there. The question now is, how long can Ukraine hold these lines without a boost in that military support from its Western allies that Ukraine has repeatedly called from, President Zelenskyy appealed for last night in his nightly address?

SOARES: Well, let me try and get an answer to that question (INAUDIBLE) Nada. Thank you very much.

Well, Ukraine says the decision to withdraw from Lysychansk was a difficult one, but the right one. The question is where does this leave the operation the east of the country right now?

[14:35:02]

Is it something that Nada obviously was hinting at? Let's bring in someone on the front line of the stories. Yuriy Sak is an adviser to Ukraine's Defense Minister and joins us now from western part of the country. So let me start right there. Where does this leave the east of the country, the battle? Because obviously, you've lost Lysychansk, that was fearsome, protracted battle. Give us a sense of why Ukrainian forces decided to withdraw there.

YURIY SAK, AN ADVISER TO UKRAINE'S DEFENSE MINISTER: Good evening. The battle for Lysychansk followed the battle for Severodonetsk, which is literally, if you look at the map, you will see that it is almost like two districts of one city. And, you know, the Russian aggressor wanted to conquer the whole of Ukraine in three days. But they were fighting and having trouble and struggling to actually take over Severodonetsk and Lysychansk for over seven weeks.

The Ukrainian armed forces have completed their military objective in terms of exhausting the enemy in terms of incurring losses on the enemy, in terms of allowing the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other groupings of the Ukrainian army, to relocate to other defensive lines, pre-prepared defensive lines. And, of course, we understand that the next target very likely will be the part of Donetsk region, in particular the city of Slavyansk and Kramatorsk.

But we have a very capable and very highly motivated and determined army in that part of Donbas. And, of course, we are counting on our international partners, and we are hoping to receive more heavy weaponry soon.

SOARES: So Yuriy, let me just break that down. I mean, what is -- what we've heard from regional forces was that this was a strategic withdrawal. But this is not a loss by any stretch of the imagination is what you're selling me?

SAK: For us, for Ukrainians, of course, the loss or the temporary retreat or withdrawal of our army, from any city, no matter how small, the loss of every meter of our land is very important and significant. But at the same time, we, and you as well, you can see that Russian aggressor, these war criminals who are leading a genocidal war against Ukraine, they are using the scorched earth tactics, which means they are using heavy artillery, you know, tens of thousands of artillery rounds a day.

And they are -- before entering the cities, they're raising them to the ground. So if you look at any city, which was recently invaded by Russia, and I will repeat, these are temporarily ruined and occupied cities, because we will de-occupy them and we will rebuild them, but every city they've invaded is reduced to rubble. So, of course, in these circumstances, the Ukrainian army, you know, made a tactical maneuver to withdraw from Lysychansk with the view to regrouping and then holding counterattacks. Counterattacks, which we are already successfully carrying out in the south of Ukraine around Kharkiv and in Zaporizhzhia Oblast. Yes.

SOARES: So a tactical maneuver, Yuriy. Where are Ukrainian troops moving to now? I mean, is the next target here Donetsk? And if so, how are you preparing for the battle ahead?

SAK: Well, of course, the tactics and the strategy for our Armed Forces is the exclusive competence of the General Staff of the Ukrainian army. So -- and, of course, nobody discloses them ahead of the battles. But I assure you that we have a very capable command, we have very capable military and political leadership. And I will repeat that we need to receive the heavy weaponry faster, because this will be a, you know, something -- a factor that will determine how soon we will be able to de-occupy the territories occupied by the aggressor. And, of course, this will determine how efficiently we will be able to resist

SOARES: But Yuriy, for so long, you know, I was in Ukraine several months ago, for so long, we have been hearing for calls from Ukrainian officials that they need more weapons. We've been hearing from NATO. We've been hearing from the G7 talking about unity, saying they are delivering more, are they not arriving, Yuriy?

SAK: They are arriving and I would like to use this opportunity to thank all of our international partners and in particular the United States of America for their leadership. We are receiving heavy weaponry, you know, look, we have received by now even the HIMARS systems, which was unthinkable just a couple of weeks ago. We already have received over 200, 155 howitzers and cannons from other -- from the U.S., from other international partners. But what we are saying is that we are thankful for what we are receiving, but the situation on the battle line on the front is such that we require to receive more and faster.

SOARES: So more and faster. But are you confident --

[14:40:01]

Very quickly, are you confident that Ukrainian forces can hold on to the Donetsk region?

SAK: We have proven time and again that our Ukrainian army is heroically capable of throwing the enemy out. We have done this in Kiev, we have done this in Chernihiv, we have done this around Kharkiv, and I assure you, we will do it everywhere else. Just recently, we have liberated the Snake Island in the Black Sea, which was also a very important strategic point. So -- and today, a Ukrainian flag was delivered to the Snake Island. So this is what will happen to all of the temporarily occupied territories, and Ukraine will be victorious and the war criminals will be held to justice and tried for their war crimes. SOARES: Yuriy Sak, we really appreciate you taking the time to speak to us, sir. Thank you very much.

SAK: Thank you so much. Thank you.

SOARES: And still to come tonight, Shireen Abu Akleh's family say they are incredulous after the U.S. investigation to her death. We'll tell you why after this short break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SOARES: The U.S. has examined the bullet that killed Palestinian American journalists Shireen Abu Akleh. The State Department says the bullet was so badly damaged that they "could not reach a definitive conclusion" about its origins. But the U.S. does say it's likely that Shireen Abu Akleh was killed by Israeli military gunfire.

The finding, or lack of one, has prompted sharp criticism from Abu Akleh's family, her Al Jazeera colleagues, as well as Palestinian officials. Hadas Gold joins me from Jerusalem with more. And Hadas, so what is Israel saying about this conclusion from the United States?

HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Isa, first of all, I think it's pretty notable because this is the first time we're hearing from the Americans sort of any sort of position as to what they think happened in May when Shireen Abu Akleh was killed while covering that Israeli military operation in the West Bank. And they didn't know that while it was inconclusive to be able to match the bullet to the weapon, they did find -- this is important, that it was likely that it was Israeli gunfire that killed her.

However, they added, they don't believe it was intentional, but they said rather the result of tragic circumstances. Now, the Israelis, in a very lengthy statement from the Israeli Defense Forces, talked about how the examination was taken place. They said it would -- took place at an Israeli lab, it was overseen by an American General. They said that they will continue to investigate and then any possible criminal investigation will potentially come later.

The Prime Minister, Yair Lapid, said that the IDF if -- that while the IDF has not been able to conclude where the shot came from.

[14:45:03]

That no IDF soldier would intentionally harm a journalist, but Defense Minister Benny Gantz, in his own statements, still seem to be pointing some blames towards Palestinian militants. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BENNY GANTZ, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER: Unfortunately, it is not possible to determine the source of the shooting. And as such, the investigation will continue. It is important to emphasize that during this operation event, like in many others, hundreds of bullets were fired at IDF troops, which responded with firepower of their own only in the direction of the sources of the shooting. The first to bear responsibility in such events are the terrorists who operate from within population centers.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GOLD: Now, Isa, the Palestinian Authority Attorney General says that they disagree with the assertion that the bullet was too badly damaged to be able to make a match. And Hussein al-Sheikh, who's the Secretary General of the Executive Committee of the PLO, said that the occupation government bears responsibility and that they will continue their procedures at the international courts. They will not allow attempts to conceal the truth or to have shy references in pointing the finger of accusation to Israel. Isa.

SOARES: Hadas Gold there for us. Thanks very, Hadas, appreciate it.

Now eastern Australia is in the grip of a life-threatening emergency. Torrential rains are battering Sydney, killing at least one person. Tens of thousands are being urged to leave as their homes are engulfed in floods, and a cargo ship is stranded off the East Coast with authorities planning a helicopter rescue. The 21-person crew lost power amid the extreme weather. All of this serves as a harsh reminder of the climate crisis, as well as its impact. Our Michael Holmes has a story for you.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: "A life-threatening emergency," that's how one official in New South Wales describes the rising floodwaters in parts of Australia's biggest city.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STEPH COOKE, NEW SOUTH WALES EMERGENCY SERVICES MINISTER: We are now facing dangers on multiple fronts, flash flooding, river rain flooding, and coastal erosion.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: Thousands of residents were ordered to evacuate parts of Sydney where heavy rain is already hitting with more expected to come in the next few days. Authorities say the situation is rapidly evolving and urged people to stay off the roads. The State Emergency Service says it has responded to more than 3,000 emergency requests already. And dozens of rescue squads have been dispatched. .

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CARLENE YORK, NEW SOUTH WALES EMERGENCY SERVICE COMMISSIONER: The level of the dams, there's no room for the water to remain in the dams. They are starting to spill. The rivers are flowing very fast and very dangerous.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: New South Wales gearing up for the deteriorating conditions, the state asking the federal government to send helicopters and troops to help with rescue efforts and sandbagging. Weather experts warn landslides could happen, the landscape already vulnerable because of previous floods in the region. In some areas, emergency crews are even fairing livestock to dry grounds, the bigger animals like these ponies, an additional challenge for rescue workers.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHRIS NELSON, DEPUTY UNIT COMMANDER, CANTERBURY SEES: Feels really good to be able to achieve a rescue and bring everyone back to land safely.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: With some parts of Sydney experiencing downpours of more than 200 millimeters, with some places up to 350 millimeters, missions like this for animals and humans alike could become more critical in the hours ahead. Michael Holmes, CNN.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SOARES: And still to come tonight, travel chaos in the United States. 4th of July celebrations are dampened by thousands of cancelled flights. We'll bring you that story just ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[14:51:26]

SOARES: And if you're just joining us, let me bring you up-to-date with our breaking news this hour. Police say they're searching for the shooter after six people were killed and more the 30 injured at a holiday parade. In Park -- Highland Park, Illinois, 26 of those 31 are considered to be seriously injured. Authorities say the suspect, a white man, between the ages of 18 and 20, does not appear to be barricaded anywhere or have any hostages, but they do consider him to be armed as well as dangerous.

Authorities say a ruffle -- a rifle was found at the scene and the shooter appear to fire from a roof. Of course we'll stay on top of this breaking news and as soon as there's more developments, we will of course bring them to you.

In the U.K., growing anger of a flight disruption has forced the boss of easyJet to quit and a motorway has been shut down by protesters fed up with the rising price of fuel. As you can see here, they blocked three lanes by driving in the slow convoy. More than a dozen people have been arrested.

And in the United States, thousands of people's 4th of July planning put in jeopardy with more than 1,600 flights canceled since Friday. Airlines are blaming bad weather and staffing shortages. CNN Aviation Correspondent Pete Muntean joins me now live from Washington DC's Reagan National Airport. And Pete, give me a sense of what you are seeing, how many flights have been canceled where you are.

PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: Well, Isa, you know, it was a mess this weekend. Although not as bad as it really could have been. Look at the latest numbers from FlightAware. 2,200 flight cancellations here in the U.S. since Thursday. Cancellations really peaked on Saturday. 657. We've seen about 200 today so far. Remember, airlines got a lot smaller over the pandemic. When bad weather comes into the mix, that is when the deck of cards really comes tumbling down and these cancellations begin piling up.

You know, these numbers are only about half as bad as what we saw last week and the weekend before was even worse. It's really good news for passengers considering the fact that about 9.2 million people had been screened at airport security checkpoints here in the U.S. since Thursday. On Friday, we saw the highest number we have seen since before the pandemic, 2.49 million people screened at airports across the country. According to the TSA, we haven't seen that number since February 11th, 2020.

This is also really good news for airlines, considering the fact that they are under this mandate from Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, he said they must have their acts together for this big holiday weekend. And it's good news for workers. Remember, these worker shortages are really impacting everybody. It's taking a while for airlines to really staff up again. I want you to listen now to Sara Nelson of the Association of Flight Attendants. She says, often workers are caught in the middle, too.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SARA NELSON, ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS: Oftentimes, crews are waiting for one, two, three, four hours to get in touch with the crew scheduler. That means if we're not getting our next assignment, we're timing out and so we're very frustrated with the airlines on the back end on operational support during this time, too.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MUNTEAN: You know, Isa, one more thing to note here. This has not been completely smooth. American Airlines had a glitch in its scheduling system for its pilots that allowed them to essentially drop trips when they were not supposed to. We have heard from American and American says this is not impacting operations this weekend. And that it's not really causing problems for passengers yet, Isa.

SOARES: OK. Let me ask you this then, Pete. How much of this is weather? Because, you know, bad weather has only been in the last couple of weeks or so.

[14:55:02]

And how much is down to the airlines like we've seen in this part of the world, this side of the Atlantic simply not being prepared post- COVID?

MUNTEAN: Well, remember airlines received $50 billion in aid from the federal government here in the U.S. to make sure they had workers on the books when the recovery happened. We have seen the recovery happen in a really, really big way from the pandemic, from the airlines. You know, there are layers to this. It's not just airline staffing. There's also the issue of weather, of course, you know, that, when it really sort of comes into the mix here, there's just no elasticity in the system. Airlines just don't have enough people on the rolls. And so that is what causes things to get really bad.

Of course, there are air traffic control delays and issues there as well. But the big issue is that the airlines, according to Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, and when weather other issues come into the mix, that's what causes the problems, Isa.

SOARES: Pete Muntean, appreciate it. Thanks very much, Pete.

Now to mark Independence Day, President Joe Biden and the First Lady are hosting a barbecue at the White House in a few hours but let's be honest, we really want to see just the fireworks. Luckily, some cities started their 4th of July celebrations early. Milwaukee's lakefront fireworks made a comeback on Sunday. The show had been canceled the last two years because of COVID-19 like in a lot of other areas right across the country.

And if you're celebrating, Happy 4th of July to you. That does it for me tonight. Thanks very much for watching. Do stay right here. "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" is up next. I shall see you tomorrow. Have a wonderful day. Bye-bye.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220705ei740005l


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Struggle as Slowdown Fears Mount
1800 字
2022 年 7 月 22 日 04:24 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Eurozone, Germany, France, UK Flash PMI; UK Retail Sales; ECB Survey of Professional Forecasters; updates from Hermes, Thales , Sika, Lonza , Renault , Autoliv , SSAB , Danske Bank , Homeserve, United Utilities , Darktrace

Opening Call:

Growth fears will likely keep stocks in check on Friday, with the ECB the latest central bank to tighten policy aggressively in the fight against inflation. In Asia, stocks mostly gained; the dollar and Treasury yields steadied; oil prices rose and gold edged down.

Equities:

European stocks will likely struggle for momentum as investors continue to react to the European Central Bank 's aggressive move to combat runaway inflation.

Financial markets ricocheted on Thursday after news of the ECB 's first rate hike in 11 years, with the Stoxx Europe 600 wavering between small gains and losses. This trading pattern could continue early on Friday

Taken together, the ECB 's actions point to a potentially "treacherous" stretch ahead for policy makers, said Capital Economics .

"We think this will be the first of a series of hikes by which the ECB will raise the deposit rate to around 2% next year--and we also think the bank will ultimately have to use its new asset purchase program to avert another eurozone crisis."

U.S. stock futures were slightly weaker as disappointing second-quarter earnings from Snap sent the stock down 26% after hours. The major U.S. indexes had recorded a third straight day of gains on Thursday before post-close results from some companies, including Snap , underwhelmed.

Snap 's results could spell concern for companies that rely on digital advertising for a significant portion of their revenue.

"We are also seeing increasing competition for advertising dollars that are now growing more slowly," Snap said. "Our revenue growth has substantially slowed, and we are evolving our business and strategy to adapt."

Forex:

The dollar was firmer against its major rivals, as risk appetite faded in Asian markets.

The euro, recently down 0.4% against the buck, remains "extremely weak historically" despite its post-ECB rise, said Piper Sandler .

"The plunging euro and yen have been contributing to the surge in the safe-haven dollar--a drag on the global economy/markets in general, and EMs in particular."

Piper Sandler added that "the war-induced energy crisis has helped hammer the euro..."

Bonds:

Treasurys continued to rally after yields posted their biggest declines of the past three to five weeks on Thursday, as traders assessed signs of a slowing U.S. economy

Investors are likely to keep monitoring the data flow ahead of next Wednesday's Fed rate decision. As of now, the CME 's market-based target rate prediction tool has the odds of a 75-basis point hike at 73%.

"The outlook for the world economy has darkened again and we have reduced our forecasts for all major economies, leaving them further below the consensus of economists," said Capital Economics .

"We now anticipate recessions in the euro-zone and the U.K. and expect the U.S., Canada and Australia to avoid economic contraction only narrowly."

Energy:

Oil prices moved higher in Asian trade, after they settled with losses of around 3% on Thursday, logging their lowest finish in a week on worries of weaker demand.

Overall, "oil traders have watched a plethora of negative factors: rising supplies from Libya and Russia, continued lockdowns in China and potentially declining U.S. demand," said Velandera Energy Partners.

SPI Asset Management said the market's focus likely will be on China's oil demand, with rising Covid-19 cases in the country. The situation remains volatile and will likely keep traders on edge in the near term.

Other News:

Spain and Portugal pushed back against a European Union plan that would require countries to curb their natural-gas consumption by 15% in an emergency situation, saying the blanket proposal doesn't account for differences between European countries.

Read more here.

Metals:

Gold futures were little changed but with a negative bias after they settled at their highest in over a week on Thursday.

ANZ said bullion could get further support on Friday from safe-haven demand, pointing to flashpoints like the worsening political crisis in Italy. Recession concerns have yet to fade and could be heightened by disappointing U.S. data and the continued resurgence of Covid in China.

OANDA has put support for gold at $1,675 and resistance at $1,720.

---

Copper prices gained more than 1% as traders seemed to be adding to long positions.

TD Securities 's tracking of Shanghai's top metals traders indicated they added to their net longs on Thursday after covering short positions over the past few sessions.

Trader activity continues to confirm that the pace of commodity liquidations has peaked, TD Securities said.

---

Chinese iron ore futures rose almost 3%, stabilizing after recent weakness.

Ferrous metals may be supported by further government policies to support the property sector and as infrastructure projects ramp up, said CITIC Futures.

Nevertheless, prices of the raw material may be weighed in the second half given softer demand expectations and an oversupply.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Japan CPI Rises Above BOJ 's 2% Target for Third Straight Month

TOKYO-Japan's overall consumer inflation rose 2.4% from a year earlier in June, exceeding the Bank of Japan 's 2% target for three straight months, government data showed Friday.

Core consumer inflation excluding volatile fresh food prices rose 2.2% in June, while the index excluding fresh food and energy prices rose 1.0%.

   
 
 
Spain, Portugal Push Back on EU Plan to Trim Gas Use

Spain and Portugal pushed back against a European Union plan that would require countries to curb their natural-gas consumption by 15% in an emergency situation, saying the blanket proposal doesn't account for differences between European countries.

The opposition could pose problems for the European Commission , the bloc's executive body, which this week laid out a plan meant to help Europe get through a winter without ample supplies of Russian gas. The proposal called on all EU countries to trim their gas consumption by 15% beginning in August. It suggested those reductions could be made mandatory in an emergency situation.

   
 
 
Turkey, U.N. Officials Say Deal Reached With Russia, Ukraine on Grain Exports

ISTANBUL-Officials from Russia, Ukraine and the United Nations planned to sign a deal to resume exports of Ukrainian grain via the Black Sea on Friday, Turkish and U.N . officials said, in an announcement that raised hopes of freeing food supplies trapped by the Russian invasion.

U.N . Secretary-General António Guterres landed in Istanbul on Thursday evening, a U.N . official said, adding that the parties involved had come to an agreement but cautioned that last-minute problems could still arise before they sign off on the deal, expected on Friday.

   
 
 
California Holds Firm Against Truck Protests at Port of Oakland

California Gov. Gavin Newsom is digging in against protesters who this week shut down most operations at the Port of Oakland , saying truckers "should focus on supporting this transition" to a new employment law, even as shippers warned the impasse was hurting their businesses.

Mr. Newsom's administration indicated Thursday it wouldn't bow to the protesters' demands to pause the implementation of the new state law, known as AB5, that will make it harder for tens of thousands of independent truckers to operate in the state.

   
 
 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Remained at Record Low in July

British consumer confidence remained severely depressed in July as cost-of-living pressures and dim economic prospects continued to build.

The consumer-confidence barometer compiled by research firm GfK steadied at minus 41 in July, the lowest level since the survey began in 1974 and in line with economists' expectations.

   
 
 
Snap Posts Weakest-Ever Sales, Sending Shares Tumbling After Hours

Snap Inc . posted its weakest-ever quarterly sales growth as a public company, highlighting the extent of the upheaval the digital-advertising market is suffering from economic turmoil and other factors.

The parent company of popular photo-sharing social-media app Snapchat on Thursday said that revenue for the April through June period was $1.11 billion, narrowly missing scaled-back Wall Street expectations, according to analysts surveyed by FactSet . The 13% year-over-year sales growth in the second quarter was even lower than what the company registered early in the pandemic, when it slipped to 17%, and Snap said sales in the current period so far were roughly flat from a year ago.

   
 
 
Staff at HSBC 's China Securities Arm Set Up Communist Unit

Workers at HSBC Holdings PLC 's Chinese securities subsidiary have formed a unit that represents the Communist Party, in the latest instance of the party establishing a presence inside a foreign company.

HSBC , one of the world's largest banks by assets, said Thursday that as few as three workers had formed a party branch at HSBC Qianhai Securities, a Shenzhen-based investment bank. London-based HSBC owns 90% of the company after increasing its stake this spring.

   
 
 
Russian Titanium Maker Is Pulled Off Sanctions List

The European Union blocked a proposal to sanction Russian metals company VSMPO-Avisma PJSC at the last minute, EU diplomats said, after France and other member states objected to the move over fears of a potential retaliatory ban by Russia on titanium exports to the bloc.

The company is a critical supplier of titanium to Airbus SE , the world's biggest commercial jet maker. Airbus , headquartered in France, employs a large workforce across Europe. It has publicly called for the EU to refrain from banning Russian sales of titanium.

   
 
 
Write to paul.larkins@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Friday

06:00/UK: Jun UK monthly retail sales figures

07:15/FRA: Jul France Flash PMI

22 Jul 2022 00:24 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks to Struggle as -2-

07:30/GER: Jul Germany Flash PMI

08:00/ICE: Jul CPI

08:00/ICE: Jun PPI

08:00/EU: Jul Eurozone Flash PMI

08:30/UK: Jul Flash UK PMI

09:00/MLT: Jun RPI

10:00/IRL: Jun WPI

12:00/POL: Jun Broad money M3

14:00/DEN: Jun Central Government Finance & Debt

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions [https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

July 22, 2022 00:24 ET (04:24 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220722ei7m00028


World news
Russia-Ukraine war: invasion ‘starting to fail’ and Russian forces suffering huge losses, says UK – as it happened
Tom Ambrose (now); Martin Belam and Samantha Lock (earlier)
8799 字
2022 年 8 月 11 日 18:19 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
At a meeting of European defence ministers, Ben Wallace says Russia ‘unlikely to ever succeed in occupying Ukraine’. This live blog is now closed

block-time published-time 7.00pm BST

Summary

The time in Kyiv is 9pm. Here is a round-up of today’s headlines:

*

The British defence secretary has said Vladimir Putin is now unlikely to succeed in occupying Ukraine. Ben Wallace said that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine had “faltered” and was “starting to fail”, as he pledged more financial and military support to the eastern European nation’s defence.

*

There have been conflicting reports of continued shelling at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. Ukraine’s nuclear energy company said it had been shelled ten times by Russian forces on Thursday, resulting in staff being unable to change shifts. Energoatom said the plant was operating normally. However, Russian news agency Tass reported that the local Russian-imposed authorities in occupied Zaporizhzhia said the plant had been fired upon by Ukrainian forces. Russian-imposed authorities in Zaporizhzhia region have also claimed Thursday that anti-aircraft defence systems thwarted Ukrainian attacks on the occupied city of Enerhodar. None of the claims have been independently verified.

*

The United States supports calls for a demilitarised zone around Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant after fighting involving Russian and Ukrainian forces in the vicinity of the plant, a State Department spokesperson said on Thursday. “Fighting near a nuclear plant is dangerous and irresponsible and we continue to call on Russia to cease all military operations at or near Ukrainian nuclear facilities and return full control to Ukraine, and support Ukrainian calls for a demilitarised zone around the nuclear power plant,” the spokesperson said.

*

Ukraine aims to evacuate two thirds of residents from areas it controls in the eastern battleground region of Donetsk before winter, partly out of concern people won’t be able to stay warm amid war-damaged infrastructure, the deputy prime minister said on Thursday. The government plans to evacuate some 220,000 people out of around 350,000, including 52,000 children, Iryna Vereshchuk told a news conference.

*

Ukraine expects $3bn of US financial aid to arrive in August and a further $1.5bn in September, its finance minister, Serhiy Marchenko, said on Thursday. Marchenko said the payments were part of the $7.5bn financial aid package agreed by Ukraine and the US at the start of the summer and would be used to finance “critical spending” such as healthcare and pension costs.

*

Belarus has said that blasts heard overnight at one of its military bases 19 miles from Ukraine were caused by a “technical incident.” At least eight explosions were heard after midnight near Zyabrovka military airport, according to reports on Telegram messenger. Reuters was not able to independently verify the reports.

*

McDonald’s will start reopening some of its restaurants in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] in the coming months, in a show of support after the American fast-food chain pulled out of Russia. The burger giant closed its Ukrainian restaurants after Russia’s invasion nearly six months ago but has continued to pay more than 10,000 McDonald’s employees in the country.

*

On Wednesday, Ukraine accused Russia of firing rockets from around the captured plant, killing at least 13 people and wounding 10, knowing it would be risky for Ukraine to return fire. Ukraine says Russia targeted the town of Marhanets, which Moscow says Ukraine has used in the past to shell Russian soldiers at the plant, which Russia seized in March. Calling on foreign allies to send more powerful weapons, Zelenskiy said in a late-night video address that Kyiv “will not leave today’s Russian shelling of the Dnipropetrovsk region unanswered”, and vowed to inflict as much damage on Russia as possible to end the war quickly.

*

Ukraine’s air force said it believed up to a dozen Russian aircraft were destroyed on the ground in Tuesday’s dramatic explosions at the Saky airbase in Crimea, which Russia said killed one, wounded 13 and damaged dozens of nearby houses[https://fill/%20in%20required%20composer%20fields%20before%20creating%20video%20page]. Political sources in Ukraine said it had carried out the attack, but Kyiv did not publicly claim responsibility. One expert said it may have been the product of a daring raid rather than a missile strike.

*

Russia has doubled the number of air strikes on Ukraine’s military positions and civilian infrastructure compared with the previous week, Ukrainian brigadier general Oleksiy Hromov said. “The enemy’s planes and helicopters avoid flying into the range of our air defences, and therefore the accuracy of these strikes is low,” he told a news conference.

That’s it from the Ukraine live blog for today. I’ll be back tomorrow but for now, it’s goodnight from me.

block-time published-time 6.17pm BST

McDonald’s will start reopening some of its restaurants in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] in the coming months, in a show of support after the American fast-food chain pulled out of Russia.

The burger giant closed its Ukrainian restaurants after Russia’s invasion nearly six months ago but has continued to pay more than 10,000 McDonald’s employees in the country.

McDonald’s said on Thursday that it would begin gradually reopening some restaurants in western Ukraine and the capital, Kyiv, where other American businesses including Nike and KFC, and Spanish clothing retailer Mango are open.

“We’ve spoken extensively to our employees who have expressed a strong desire to return to work and see our restaurants in Ukraine reopen,” Paul Pomroy, corporate senior vice-president of international markets, said in a message to staff. “In recent months, the belief that this would support a small but important sense of normalcy has grown stronger.”

Related: McDonald’s to reopen some restaurants in Ukraine for first time since war began[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/11/mcdonalds-to-reopen-some-restaurants-in-ukraine-for-first-time-since-war-began]

block-time published-time 6.00pm BST

Ukraine aims to evacuate two thirds of residents from areas it controls in the eastern battleground region of Donetsk before winter, partly out of concern people won’t be able to stay warm amid war-damaged infrastructure, the deputy prime minister said on Thursday.

The government plans to evacuate some 220,000 people out of around 350,000, including 52,000 children, Iryna Vereshchuk told a news conference.

Late last month Ukraine announced the mandatory evacuation of people from Donetsk region, which has been the scene of fierce fighting with Russia, to save civilian lives, Reuters reported.

Although the authorities describe the evacuation as “mandatory”, residents can opt out by filling in a form declaring their intention to stay.

block-time published-time 5.37pm BST

The United States supports calls for a demilitarised zone around Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant after fighting involving Russian and Ukrainian forces in the vicinity of the plant, a State Department spokesperson said on Thursday.

“Fighting near a nuclear plant is dangerous and irresponsible and we continue to call on Russia to cease all military operations at or near Ukrainian nuclear facilities and return full control to Ukraine, and support Ukrainian calls for a demilitarised zone around the nuclear power plant,” the spokesperson said.

UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres earlier on Thursday called for an immediate end to military activity near the facility, Europe’s largest nuclear power plant, Reuters reported.

block-time published-time 5.14pm BST

Belarus has said that blasts heard overnight at one of its military bases 19 miles from Ukraine were caused by a “technical incident.”

At least eight explosions were heard after midnight near Zyabrovka military airport, according to reports on Telegram messenger. Reuters was not able to independently verify the reports.

Commenting on the incident, the Belarusian Defence Ministry said “the engine of a vehicle caught fire after replacement... there were no casualties.”

The incident occurred after powerful explosions rocked Russia’s Saki air base earlier this week in Russian-ruled Crimea, which Moscow had termed an accident.

Ukraine has declined to publicly claim responsibility for the explosions at the base, while also not denying involvement.

block-time published-time 4.35pm BST

Russia's invasion of Ukraine 'starting to fail', says UK defence secretary

The British defence secretary has said Vladimir Putin is now unlikely to succeed in occupying Ukraine.

Ben Wallace said that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine had “faltered” and was “starting to fail”, as he pledged more financial and military support to the eastern European nation’s defence.

Denmark joined the UK in offering more aid to Ukraine at a conference in Copenhagen on Thursday, co-hosted by Wallace. The defence secretary said it was important to understand that fighting and loss of life was still taking place, but added Russia was “starting to fail in many areas”.

He said:

They have failed so far and are unlikely to ever succeed in occupying Ukraine.

Their invasion has faltered and constantly been re-modified to the extent they are really only focusing in parts of the south and in the east, a long, long way away from their three-day so-called special operation.

Three days are now over 150 days and nearly six months in, with huge significant losses of both equipment and indeed Russian personnel.

British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace speaks during a news conference after hosting a donor conference, together with Ukrainian and Danish defence ministers. Photograph: Ritzau Scanpix/Reuters

He added:

President Putin will have gambled that come August, come a few months in, we will have all got bored of the conflict and the international community would have gone off in different directions. Well, today is proof of the opposite.

We have come out of this meeting with more pledges of finance, more pledges of training and more pledges of military aid, all designed to help Ukraine win, to help Ukraine stand up for its sovereignty and indeed to ensure that president Putin’s ambitions fail in Ukraine as they rightly should.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.43pm BST

block-time published-time 3.32pm BST

Ukraine expects $3 bn of US financial aid to arrive in August and a further $1.5 bn in September, its finance minister, Ser hiy Marchenko, said on Thursday.

Marchenko said the payments were part of the $7.5bn financial aid package agreed by Ukraine and the US at the start of the summer and would be used to finance “critical spending” such as healthcare and pension costs.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.40pm BST

block-time published-time 2.50pm BST

Here are some of the latest images sent over the newswires from Ukraine and Russia.

Marina Ovsyannikova, a former Russian state TV journalist who quit after making an on-air protest of Russia’s military operation in Ukraine, sits in a court room prior to a hearing in Moscow, Russia on Thursday. Photograph: Alexander Zemlianichenko/AP Russia’s military released this photo of Olenivka prison in Donetsk, taken on 10 August. It shows an interior view of the destroyed barrack where Ukrainian prisoners of war were held, and where at least 51 died. Photograph: Sergei Ilnitsky/EPA A woman looks at a part of a missile after a Russian military strike in Kramatorsk, Donetsk. Photograph: Horaci Garcia/Reuters An infrared overview of damaged aircraft at Saki Airbase in Novofedorivka, Crimea, supplied by Maxar Technologies. Photograph: Maxar Technologies/Reuters

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.06pm BST

block-time published-time 2.42pm BST

Ukraine’s nuclear energy company Energoatom has also claimed that the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant (ZNPP) has been attacked again, although, contrary to the claims reported in Russian media that Ukraine was to blame, it said that it has been shelled by pro-Russian forces. In a statement on Telegram it said:

Today the Rashists once again bombarded the ZNPP, the largest in Ukraine and Europe. Five “arrivals” were recorded in the area of ??the commandant’s office of the station – right next to the welding area and the storage of radiation sources. Grass caught fire in a small area, but luckily no one was hurt. However, the enemy did not stop there.

Five more “arrivals” occurred in the area of ??the fire department, which is located not far from the ZNPP … for the safety of nuclear workers, the buses with the personnel of the next shift were turned back to Energodar. Until the situation finally normalises, the workers of the previous shift will continue to work.

The situation at the station is currently under control. The information, which was immediately spread in the hostile public, that the staff allegedly left the station in a panic, is fake and manipulative.

The claims have not been independently verified.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.02pm BST

block-time published-time 2.35pm BST

Russian news agency Tass is reporting that the occupying forces in Zaporizhzhia have told it that the armed forces of Ukraine fired at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant and the territory near the nuclear facility for the second time in a day. The claims have not been independently verified. The nuclear complex has been under Russian occupation since early March, although Ukrainian technicians still operate it.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.45pm BST

block-time published-time 2.12pm BST

Sweden’s government has decided to extradite a man to Turkey wanted for fraud, it said, the first case since Turkey demanded a number of people be extradited in return for allowing Stockholm to formally apply for Nato membership.

Turkey, a Nato member, lifted its veto over Finland and Sweden’s bid to join the alliance in June after weeks of tense negotiations where Ankara accused the two Nordic countries of harbouring what it says are militants of the banned Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK).

As part of the deal, Turkey submitted a list of people it wanted Sweden to extradite, but has since expressed frustration over the lack of progress. The man, in his 30s, would be the first known case of an extradition to Turkey since the deal was struck.

“This is a normal, routine matter. The person in question is a Turkish citizen and convicted of fraud offences in Turkey in 2013 and 2016,” Morgan Johansson, Sweden’s justice minister, told Reuters in a text message.

“The supreme court has examined the issue as usual and concluded that there are no obstacles to extradition,” he said.

A spokesperson for the justice ministry declined to say whether the man was on the list of people Turkey demanded to have extradited, or to provide further comment on the matter.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.25pm BST

block-time published-time 1.21pm BST

Russia has doubled the number of air strikes on Ukraine’s military positions and civilian infrastructure compared with the previous week, Ukrainian brigadier general Oleksiy Hromov said.

“The enemy’s planes and helicopters avoid flying into the range of our air defences, and therefore the accuracy of these strikes is low,” he told a news conference, Reuters reported.

block-time published-time 1.07pm BST

UN secretary-general, Ant ónio Guterres, called for an immediate end to military activity near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, Europe’s largest.

“I am calling on the military forces of the Russian Federation and Ukraine to immediately cease all military activities in the immediate vicinity of the plant and not to target its facilities or surroundings,” he said in a statement on Thursday.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.18pm BST

block-time published-time 12.39pm BST

The British prime minister, Boris Johnson, has told the UAE president, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan, on a call that cooperation between the two countries on Ukraine and regional stability was “hugely important for the world”, Johnson’s spokesperson said.

“The prime minister praised the crown prince’s success in bringing prosperity to both the UAE and the Gulf more generally,” the Downing Street spokesperson said on Thursday.

“[Johnson] expressed his confidence that this cooperation will continue in the years ahead.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.49pm BST

block-time published-time 12.02pm BST

UK and Denmark set out further support for Ukraine

Britain and Denmark will provide more financial and military aid to Ukraine, they said on Thursday as European defence ministers met in Copenhagen to discuss long-term support for the country’s defence against Russia’s invasion.

Britain, which has already donated advanced weapons systems to Ukraine and given thousands of its troops military training, said it would send more multiple-launch rocket systems, Reuters reported.

It would also donate a “significant number” of precision-guided M31A1 missiles that can strike targets up to 80km (50 miles) away.

“This latest tranche of military support will enable the armed forces of Ukraine to continue to defend against Russian aggression and the indiscriminate use of long-range artillery,” the UK defence secretary, Ben Wallace, said in a statement.

“Our continued support sends a very clear message: Britain and the international community remain opposed to this illegal war and will stand shoulder-to-shoulder, providing defensive military aid to Ukraine to help them defend against Putin’s invasion.”

Denmark will increase its financial aid to Ukraine by 110m euros, said the Danish prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, at a conference in Copenhagen hosted by Ukraine, Denmark and Britain.

She added: “This is a war on the values that Europe and the free world are built upon... Today we reaffirm our commitment to support of Ukraine.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.59pm BST

block-time published-time 11.33am BST

Russia has turned down a Swiss offer to represent Ukrainian interests in Russia and Moscow’s interests in Ukraine because it no longer considers Switzerland a neutral country.

Switzerland has a long diplomatic tradition of acting as an intermediary between countries whose relations have broken down, but Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Ivan Nechayev said this was not possible in the current situation.

“The Swiss were indeed interested in our opinion on the possible representation of Ukraine’s interests in Russia and Russia’s in Ukraine,” Nechayev told reporters.

“We very clearly answered that Switzerland had unfortunately lost its status of a neutral state and could not act either as an intermediary or a representative. Bern has joined illegal western sanctions against Russia.”

Neutral Switzerland has mirrored nearly all the sanctions that the EU imposed on Russia over its military intervention in Ukraine, Reuters reported.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.36am BST

block-time published-time 11.02am BST

Summary of the day so far …

*

Ukraine has accused Russia of firing rockets from around the captured Zaporizhzhia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/08/how-dangerous-is-the-situation-at-the-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant]nuclear power plant, killing at least 13 people and wounding 10, knowing it would be risky for Ukraine to return fire. Ukraine says Russia targeted the town of Marhanets, which Moscow says Ukraine has used in the past to shell Russian soldiers at the plant, which Russia seized in March. Calling on foreign allies to send more powerful weapons, the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said in a late-night video address that Kyiv “will not leave today’s Russian shelling of the Dnipropetrovsk region unanswered”, and vowed to inflict as much damage on Russia as possible to end the war quickly.

*

Russian-imposed authorities in Zaporizhzhia region have claimed that anti-aircraft defence systems thwarted Ukrainian attacks on the occupied city of Enerhodar and the nearby Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. The claims have not been independently verified.

*

Ukraine’s air force said it believed up to a dozen Russian aircraft were destroyed on the ground in Tuesday’s dramatic explosions at the Saky airbase in Crimea, which Russia said killed one person, wounded 13 and damaged dozens of nearby houses[https://fill/%20in%20required%20composer%20fields%20before%20creating%20video%20page]. Political sources in Ukraine said the Ukrainian military had carried out the attack, but Kyiv did not publicly claim responsibility. One expert said it may have been the product of a daring raid rather than a missile strike.

*

The British defence secretary, Ben Wallace, said he thought the Saky airbase in Crimea was a “legitimate target” for Ukraine. “ First and foremost, Russia has illegally invaded, not just in 2014, but now Ukrainian territory,” he said. “Ukraine, under UN articles, is perfectly entitled to defend its territory and take what action it needs to against an invading force.”

*

Pro-Russian separatists accused Ukraine of shelling a brewery in the occupied eastern city of Donetsk on Wednesday, killing one person and triggering a leak of ammonia that sparked a fire, Reuters reported.

*

Russia’s governor of Kursk, Roman Starovoyt, said that two settlements that border Ukraine were shelled.

*

The Ukrainian parliament commissioner for human rights has issued updated figures for child casualties since Russia began its latest invasion of Ukraine. The official figures are that 361 children have been killed and 705 children injured. As of 11 August, the commissioner says that 204 are considered missing, and that 6,159 have been deported.

*

The EU has been urged to put a travel ban on Russian tourists, with some member states saying visiting Europe is “a privilege, not a human right” for holidaymakers. Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy[https://www.theguardian.com/world/volodymyr-zelenskiy], has told the Washington Post that the “most important sanction” is to “close the borders, because the Russians are taking away someone else’s land”.

*

Latvia’s parliament, the Saeima, has named Russia as a terrorist-supporting state. In a statement, it said Russia had chosen a “cruel, immoral, and illegal tactic, using imprecise and internationally banned weapons and ammunition, targeting disproportionate brutality against civilians and public places” in Ukraine.

That is it from me, Martin Belam, for now. I will be back later on. Tom Ambrose will be here with you shortly.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.27am BST

block-time published-time 10.39am BST

Ukraine’s defence minister, Oleksii Reznikov, has been at the Ukraine Donors’ Conference in Copenhagen with his Danish and British counterparts. Speaking this morning, he said:

Russia’s words, and agreements with them, are not worth the paper they are written on. So what can be done? This solution is obvious. Russia succeeds when it manages to divide us, when it confronts us one-on-one, pulling together its resources and beating us. Russia is defeated and backs down when it loses the initiative, and meets with coordinated resistance.

He went on to thank the Danish defence minister, Morten B øedsko, and the British defence minister, Ben Wallace, for their continued support, and also singled out for praise Lloyd Austin, the US secretary of defence. The meeting was addressed via video link by Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy.

Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, is seen on screen as Denmark, Britain and Ukraine host an international donors’ conference in Copenhagen. Photograph: Philip Davali/EPA

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.51am BST

block-time published-time 10.25am BST

Here is a selection of some of the latest images sent to us from Ukraine over the newswires.

A man cleans a car damaged by a Russian strike in Kharkiv. Photograph: Reuters A man walks in a crater caused by Russian shelling in Zaporizhzhia region, south-east Ukraine. Photograph: Future Publishing/Ukrinform/Getty Images This picture, supplied by Ukraine’s emergency services, shows a residential building damaged by a military strike in Nikopol, Dnipropetrovsk region, south-east Ukraine. Photograph: State Emergency Service Of Ukraine/Reuters

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.31am BST

block-time published-time 10.09am BST

Latvia’s parliament, the Saeima, has named Russia as a terrorist-supporting state.

In a statement, the Saeima called on the EU to prevent tourism from Russia. It said:

Russia has been providing support and financing for terrorist regimes and organisations for many years, directly and indirectly, as the largest arms supplier for the Assad regime in Syria and as an implementer, such as the poisoning of the Skripal family or the shooting of the MH-17 aircraft. In Ukraine, Russia has chosen a similar, cruel, immoral, and illegal tactic, using imprecise and internationally banned weapons and ammunition, targeting disproportionate brutality against civilians and public places.

Latvia’s public broadcaster reports[https://eng.lsm.lv/article/politics/saeima/latvian-saeima-names-russia-terrorism-supporting-state.a468932/] :

In its statement, the Saeima stresses that Russia uses suffering and intimidation as an instrument in its attempts to demoralise the Ukrainian people and armed forces. The Saeima acknowledges Russia’s violence against civilians, which is being pursued for political purposes, as terrorism and Russia as a country supporting terrorism, and calls on other similar-thinking countries to express such an opinion.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.17am BST

block-time published-time 9.23am BST

The Ukrainian parliament commissioner for human rights has issued updated figures for child casualties since Russia began its latest invasion of Ukraine on 24 February.

The official figures are that 361 children have been killed and 705 children injured. As of 11 August, the commissioner says that 204 are considered missing, and that 6,159 have been deported.

block-time published-time 8.44am BST

Reuters reports that the Russian-imposed authorities in Zaporizhzhia region have claimed to Russian news agencies Tass and RIA that anti-aircraft defence systems thwarted Ukrainian attacks on the occupied city of Enerhodar and the nearby Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. The claims have not been independently verified. The source of attacks on and near to the Russian-occupied nuclear power plant has been hotly disputed.

block-time published-time 8.33am BST

Ukraine’s ministry of defence has been exploiting the explosions at the Russian air base in Crimea for social media propaganda purposes.

It has issued a video[https://twitter.com/DefenceU/status/1557621932429819907] with the message: “Unless they want an unpleasantly hot summer break, we advise our valued Russian guests not to visit Ukrainian Crimea. Because no amount of sunscreen will protect them from the hazardous effects of smoking in unauthorised areas.”

The video, to the soundtrack of Bananarama’s Cruel Summer, lists a host of summer holiday venues that Russian tourists in Crimea could have chosen instead, alongside inviting footage of those destinations, then says that they made a big mistake by choosing to holiday in Ukraine. It then cuts together social media footage of the explosions along with clips of tourists fleeing beaches and crying in the aftermath of the incident.

The reference to “smoking in unauthorised areas” is to the suggestion from Russian authorities that the explosions, which appear to have destroyed multiple planes that were on the ground at the time, were caused by an accidental fire at the base.

block-time published-time 8.25am BST

Back to that series of explosions at a Russian air base on Tuesday for a moment, the Guardian has been carrying some analysis by Justin Bronk:

Justin Bronk, an aviation analyst with the Rusi thinktank, said that, having studied social media videos of the incident, he could see no evidence of incoming missiles and that he was “almost certain” there were “secondary explosions” of ammunition stores or fuel bunkers which were stored on or near the airstrip.

That led him to conclude that “the most likely current theory for me is that Ukrainian special forces carried out the attack by infiltrating close enough to the base to launch and guide in small UAVs [drones] or loitering munitions, to hit either parked aircraft or fuel trucks/storage”.

Read more here in our updated report from Samantha Lock and from Dan Sabbagh in Kyiv: Russian warplanes destroyed in Crimea airbase attack, satellite images show[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/11/russian-warplanes-destroyed-in-crimea-saky-airbase-attack-satellite-images-show]

Related: Russian warplanes destroyed in Crimea airbase attack, satellite images show [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/11/russian-warplanes-destroyed-in-crimea-saky-airbase-attack-satellite-images-show]

block-time published-time 8.04am BST

Russia’s governor of Kursk, Roman Starovoyt, has claimed on Telegram that two Russian settlements close to the border with Ukraine are under fire this morning. He named Tetkino and Popovo-Lezhachi as the targets. His message promised more details later.

block-time published-time 8.00am BST

Russian media this morning are carrying claims from the self-proclaimed breakaway republics in Ukraine’s east.

Tass has quotes from Denis Pushilin, the self-styled leader of the chiefly unrecognised Donetsk People’s Republic (DPR). Pushilin again is pushing his line that the deaths of prisoners of war at the Russian-controlled Olenivka prison were the responsibility of Kyiv. He told the media:

The motive here is clear. The first is to shut up, not to give them the opportunity to speak, to confess to those crimes. Because not only are they the perpetrators of war crimes, they are also witnesses. Because these teams gave them specific names, surnames, positions and directly, according to our data, Zelensky himself often personally intervened here.

Tass goes on to quote him saying that the attack happened after confessions of Ukrainian soldiers began to be made public. “After these video confessions began to appear, this blow was dealt directly,” he said.

There have been calls for a UN-backed independent investigation into the incident, which led to the deaths of at least 51 people died while more than 100 were injured. Both sides of the war have claimed the other is responsible. Ukraine claims pro-Russian forces blew up the prison building to conceal evidence of the torture and deaths of the POWs being held there.

The RIA Novosti agency, meanwhile, is carrying a claim from the authorities of the similarly self-proclaimed Luhansk People’s Republic (LPR).

In its report it says that the armed forces of the LPR have told it that they have found the bodies of foreign mercenaries that have been burnt by Ukrainian troops as they retreated in order to conceal the identity of the dead.

The incident is reported to have happened at Soledar, which is inside the territory claimed by the DPR. The report offered no evidence and the claims have not been independently verified.

The DPR and the LPR are only recognised as legitimate authorities by three UN member states: Russia, Syria and North Korea.

block-time published-time 7.33am BST

The British ministry of defence has issued its daily intelligence briefing about the war in Ukraine, which today has focused on the impact of the war on Russia’s military exports.

In part of the report, the ministry says Russia’s “military industrial capacity is now under significant strain, and the credibility of many of its weapon systems has been undermined by their association with Russian forces’ poor performance in the Ukraine war.”

enltrLatest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 11 August 2022

Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/NhsgyrWLNM[https://t.co/NhsgyrWLNM]

???? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ???? pic.twitter.com/kSKIv6NRUQ[https://t.co/kSKIv6NRUQ]

— Ministry of Defence ???? (@DefenceHQ) August 11, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1557601043042779136?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 7.30am BST

Maksym Kozytskyi, governor of Lviv, has posted to Telegram to say that his western region of Ukraine had a peaceful night with no attacks or air alarms. He said that 155 people arrived in the region on evacuation trains from the east yesterday.

*

This is Martin Belam on the live blog in London. You can reach me at martin.belam@theguardian.com[mailto:martin.belam@theguardian.com]

block-time published-time 7.01am BST

Summary so far

Before I hand you over to my colleague, Martin Belam, here is a quick update of developments so far this morning.

*

Russian warplanes appear to have been damaged or destroyed in the recent attack on Saky airbase in Crimea, according to newly released satellite images.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/11/russian-warplanes-destroyed-in-crimea-saky-airbase-attack-satellite-images-show] The images, from the US-based Planet Labs, show large areas of scorched earth and damage to the runway alongside the charred remnants of military aircraft.

*

Russia has claimed control of Pisky in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region. An official with the Russia-backed Donetsk People’s Republic said Pisky, on the frontlines just 10km (6 miles) northwest of provincial capital Donetsk, was under control of Russian and separatist forces. “It’s hot in Pisky. The town is ours,” the official, Danil Bezsonov, said on Telegram. Ukrainian officials denied that the heavily fortified town, a key to the defence of Donetsk, had fallen.

*

Reports of explosions sounding near the Belarus border with Ukraine were described on Wednesday evening. Franak Viacorka, senior advisor to Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the national leader of Belarus and opposition leader to president Alexander Lukashenko, said he heard “at least eight explosions” around 1am in the Homiel region near the border with Ukraine.

*

Pro-Russian separatists accused Ukraine of shelling a Donetsk brewery, killing one person and triggering a leak of ammonia. The emergencies ministry in the Russian-backed self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic said a shell had hit an ammonia line late at night, sparking a fire that at one point covered 600 square metres (6,500 square feet).

*

The UN Security Council will hold an emergency meeting later today to address the crisis at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. The meeting is scheduled to occur on 11 August at 3pm (7pm GMT) according to a statement[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/iaea-director-general-grossi-to-brief-un-security-council-on-ukraines-zaporizhzya-nuclear-power-plant] issued by the UN nuclear safety watchdog.

*

The first grain ship to leave Ukraine under a UN-backed deal last week docked in Turkey on Wednesday, marine traffic sites showed, following a report that it has finally found a buyer for its maize. Marine traffic sites showed the Razoni docked in Turkey’s Mediterranean Sea port of Mersin after spending several days anchored just off the coast.

*

The first wartime wheat from Ukraine should ship next week after an agreement signed by Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] and Ukraine last month lifted a Russian blockade of Ukraine’s ports and established safe corridors, a top UN official has said. The first 12 ships to leave the three Black Sea ports designated by the agreement were carrying 370,000 tonnes of corn and foodstuffs, according to Frederick Kenney, interim UN coordinator at the joint centre in Istanbul overseeing the deal.

*

The UN expects to see a “big uptick” in applications for ships to export Ukrainian grain after transit procedures were agreed by Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and the United Nations, a senior UN official said on Wednesday. The number of inbound vessels is expected to “grow in the near future” as grain deals are made, Kenney said. So far, 24 grain carrying ships have left Ukrainian ports.

block-time published-time 6.54am BST

Russia claims control of Pisky in Ukraine's Donetsk

Heavy fighting raged around the eastern Ukrainian town of Pisky on Thursday as Russia pressed its campaign to seize all of the industrialised Donbas region.

An official with the Russia-backed Donetsk People’s Republic said Pisky, on the frontlines just 10km (6 miles) northwest of provincial capital Donetsk, was under control of Russian and separatist forces.

“It’s hot in Pisky. The town is ours but there remain scattered pockets of resistance in its north and west,” the official, Danil Bezsonov, said on Telegram, according to a report from Reuters news agency.

Ukrainian officials denied that the heavily fortified town, a key to the defence of Donetsk, had fallen. The Guardian has been unable to immediately verify the battlefield accounts.

Oleksiy Arestovych, a Ukrainian presidential adviser, said in an interview posted on YouTube that Russian “movement into Pisky” had been “without success”.

Luhansk regional Governor Serhiy Gaidai, interviewed on Ukrainian TV, said Russia had sent increasing numbers of mercenaries into the region, including from the Wagner private security firm.

“We once had peaceful Ukrainian towns. Now we have been thrust into the Middle Ages... People are now leaving because they are afraid of freezing in the coming winter,” he said.

block-time published-time 6.49am BST

Explosions heard near Belarus Ziabrauka airfield - reports

Reports of explosions sounding near the Belarus border with Ukraine were described on Wednesday evening .

Franak Viacorka, senior advisor to Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the national leader of Belarus and opposition leader to president Alexander Lukashenko, said he heard “at least eight explosions” around 1am in the Homiel region near the border with Ukraine.

“At least eight explosions in the Homiel region near the border with Ukraine. According to witnesses, explosions took place near Ziabrauka airfield. Russian military aircraft are often stationed there,” he said in a tweet.

According to the Belarus defence ministry, military drills were set to be conducted during the time the explosions were heard. However, there has been no confirmation whether the explosions were connected to the drills.

The Ziabrauka airfield has been used by Russia’s armed forces in the war against Ukraine.

The armed forces of Ukraine also said it had received information that explosions could be heard and flares can be seen in the vicinity of the Ziabrauka airfield in an update[https://t.me/zsuwar/19294] posted to Telegram late on Wednesday.

Earlier, the Belarus ministry of defence announced the conduct of live-fire exercises of the air force.

enltr??At least 8 explosions in the Homiel region near the border with Ukraine. According to witnesses, explosions took place near Ziabrauka airfield. Russian military aircraft are often stationed there.

— Franak Viacorka (@franakviacorka) August 10, 2022[https://twitter.com/franakviacorka/status/1557492757933039616?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 6.46am BST

Russian separatists accuse Ukraine over ammonia leak

Pro-Russian separatists accused Ukraine of shelling a brewery in the occupied eastern city of Donetsk on Wednesday, killing one person and triggering a leak of ammonia, Interfax news agency said.

The emergencies ministry in the Russian-backed self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic said a shell had hit an ammonia line late at night, sparking a fire that at one point covered 600 square metres (6,500 square feet).

Smoke rises after the shelling of a brewery in Donetsk, Ukraine August 10. Photograph: Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters

Reuters pictures from the scene showed flames lighting the sky above one part of the city as well as firefighters donning masks. One picture appeared to show a corpse on the ground.

Russian state media agency RT said the “toxic gas is affecting a 2km radius round the factory” citing local DPR officials.

Residents have been urged to stay inside and not open their windows.

The Ukrainian defence ministry has not made any comment.

enltr??Ammonia Leak: Brewery in Donetsk Shelled

The toxic gas is affecting a 2km radius round the factory, according to local officials in the Donetsk People's Republic.

Residents have been urged to stay inside and not open their windows. pic.twitter.com/46AkWfovIn[https://t.co/46AkWfovIn]

— RT (@RT_com) August 10, 2022[https://twitter.com/RT_com/status/1557472313704169479?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.48am BST

block-time published-time 6.31am BST

On the topic of Ukrainian grain exports, the centre coordinating its shipment to world markets expects “a big uptick” in applications to pick up cargoes at Ukrainian ports in the near future, its interim coordinator said.

Frederick Kenney told a virtual news conference from Istanbul, where the Joint Coordination Centre is located, that ship owners have shown “tremendous interest” in exporting grain from Ukraine under a recently signed new deal.

The centre is receiving “literally dozens and dozens of phone calls every day and emails asking when can we get ready to go,” said Kenney, director of legal and external affairs at the international maritime organisation who is leading the UN’s efforts at the centre to get grain shipped from three Ukrainian ports.

He said detailed procedures on shipping and inspections were sent out to the industry on Monday and their dissemination “is also going to drive a surge in requests, but it is early days.”

We’re expecting to see a big uptick in applications for transit,” Kenney said. “Indeed, we’re aware that there are a number of empty grain vessels sitting at anchorage in Turkish anchorage areas waiting to arrange the contracts. And once they have their deals arranged they’ll be transiting northbound.”

Asked about relations among the parties, since Russia and Ukraine are at war, he said, “I’ve been extremely impressed with the level of cooperation and coordination that has been displayed.”

block-time published-time 6.21am BST

UN to discuss Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant crisis

The UN Security Council will hold an emergency meeting later today to address the crisis at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, diplomatic sources told Agence France-Presse.

The meeting is scheduled to occur on 11 August at 3pm (7pm GMT) according to a statement[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/iaea-director-general-grossi-to-brief-un-security-council-on-ukraines-zaporizhzya-nuclear-power-plant] issued by the UN nuclear safety watchdog.

A diplomatic source at UN headquarters in New York told Agence France-Presse that the council’s 15 member nations would gather at the request of Russia, one of the five permanent members of the Security Council - along with Britain, China, France and the United States - which hold veto power over UN resolutions.

A Russian serviceman stands guard near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. Photograph: Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters

At least 14 people were killed after shelling [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/10/thirteen-civilians-killed-in-russian-shelling-near-ukrainian-nuclear-plant] in southeastern Ukraine near the Zaporizhzhia power plant, the largest in Europe.

The G7 group of most industrialised nations warned that Moscow’s continued occupation of the plant “endangers the region,” and called for return of the facility to Ukrainian control.

The UN nuclear safety watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), said in a statement that its director general Rafael Grossi would brief the Security Council meeting “about the nuclear safety and security situation” at the plant as well as his “efforts to agree and lead an IAEA expert mission to the site as soon as possible”.

“I welcome this opportunity to inform the Council. It is vital that the IAEA be present at the plant to help reduce danger of a possible nuclear disaster,” Grossi said.

I welcome this opportunity to inform the United Nations Security Council about the extremely serious situation facing one of the world’s biggest nuclear power plants, now located in the middle of an active war zone. An accident at this plant could threaten public health and the environment both in Ukraine and neighbouring countries, as well as further away.

It is vital that the IAEA be present at the plant to help reduce danger of a possible nuclear disaster.”

Grossi called the situation at the complex “extremely serious”.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.32am BST

block-time published-time 6.06am BST

First Ukraine grain ship docks in Turkey

The first grain ship to leave Ukraine under a UN-backed deal last week docked in Turkey on Wednesday, marine traffic sites showed, following a report that it has finally found a buyer for its maize.

The Sierra Leone-flagged vessel Razoni left the Ukrainian port of Odesa on 1 August carrying 26,000 tonnes of corn and had been expected to dock in the Lebanese port of Tripoli last weekend.

But Ukrainian officials said the shipment’s five-month delay caused by Russia’s invasion prompted the Lebanese buyer to cancel the deal once the ship was already at sea.

The Sierra Leone-flagged cargo ship Razoni, carrying Ukrainian grain, is seen in the Black Sea off Kilyos, near Istanbul, Turkey, 3 August. Photograph: Mehmet Caliskan/Reuters

Marine traffic sites showed the Razoni docked in Turkey’s Mediterranean Sea port of Mersin after spending several days anchored just off the coast.

The Middle East Eye news site cites a shipping agent as saying that a Turkish buyer has been found for the maize.

The “cargo sold.... It will [unload] at Mersin,” Ahmed al-Fares of the Ashram Maritime Agency told the news site.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.11am BST

block-time published-time 5.54am BST

First Ukrainian wheat shipments expected next week: UN

The first wartime wheat from Ukraine should ship next week after agreement signed by Russia and Ukraine last month lifted a Russian blockade of Ukraine’s ports and established safe corridors, a top UN official has said.

The first 12 ships to leave the three Black Sea ports designated by the agreement were carrying 370,000 tonnes of corn and foodstuffs, according to Frederick Kenney, interim UN coordinator at the joint centre in Istanbul overseeing the deal.

But that should change once the ships docked in Ukraine leave their ports and new ones come in to pick up wheat that has accumulated with this year’s harvest, Kenney told reporters.

enltr #BlackSeaGrainInitiative[https://twitter.com/hashtag/BlackSeaGrainInitiative?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Frederick J. Kenney Jr., interim Coordinator for the UN at the Joint Coordination Centre for the Black Sea Initiative, said a dozen ships have exported “over 370,000 metric tons of grain" @CBSNews[https://twitter.com/CBSNews?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] |UN https://t.co/MmJPNVOmy8[https://t.co/MmJPNVOmy8] pic.twitter.com/SL6tObsIap[https://t.co/SL6tObsIap]

— Pamela Falk CBS News Correspondent United Nations (@PamelaFalk) August 11, 2022[https://twitter.com/PamelaFalk/status/1557527549751738368?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

We are dealing with three ports that were essentially frozen in time.

The silos were full of corn and the ships that were there have been loaded with corn.

It’s imperative to get those ships out to get new ships in.... that can deal with the food crisis.”

Kenney added that the shipments would be transitioning to wheat.

We have cleared the first ship inbound” to Ukraine through the Bosphorus Strait, he said. “That should occur some time next week.”

We’re seeing steady progress in the number of ships coming in and out. We’re off to a good start.”

block-time published-time 5.46am BST

Satellite images show Russian warplanes destroyed

At least eight Russian warplanes appear to have been damaged or destroyed in the recent attack on Saky airbase in Crimea, according to newly released satellite images.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/11/russian-warplanes-destroyed-in-crimea-saky-airbase-attack-satellite-images-show]

The images, from the US-based Planet Labs, show large areas of scorched earth and damage to the runway alongside the charred remnants of military aircraft.

Images taken by the private satellite operator at around 8am on 9 August – approximately four hours before the attack – and about 4.40pm on 10 August, show at least eight aircraft parked outside were damaged or destroyed.

Interactive[https://interactive.guim.co.uk/2018/08/interactive-now-and-then-embed/embed/embed.html?mobile_before=//i.guim.co.uk/img/media/724d9118747d14f7432a86e66eed9668deb4ac1e/0_112_1920_1152/master/1920.jpg----width=500____quality=85____s=ab900e2cba8b9dc947bbd6e10902ce38&desktop_before=//i.guim.co.uk/img/media/724d9118747d14f7432a86e66eed9668deb4ac1e/0_112_1920_1152/master/1920.jpg----width=1000____quality=85____s=7a16d8bc180e8a2459fa5bd532e2518b&label_before=9%20August&mobile_after=//i.guim.co.uk/img/media/99690e30906b6a027395b358f6052db2d5792284/0_111_1920_1152/master/1920.jpg----width=500____quality=85____s=f3d8c33f3890b8f88f000d05ad3346e9&desktop_after=//i.guim.co.uk/img/media/99690e30906b6a027395b358f6052db2d5792284/0_111_1920_1152/master/1920.jpg----width=1000____quality=85____s=ff35a8248edbf8be1b048d3d3cd6760f&label_after=10%20August%20&analytics_label=Before%20and%20after%20the%20explosion%20at%20The%20Saky%20airbase,%20Crimea&type=slider&] Before and after image of the The Saky airbase

The before-and-after images are the first independent confirmation of damage to the base, prompting questions about how a location more than 100 miles (160km) from the frontline could have been attacked.

Eliot Higgins, founder and director of open source investigative website Bellingcat, said he “can’t think of a time Russia has lost this many air assets in one day in recent memory” in a series of tweets[https://twitter.com/EliotHiggins/status/1557440583878299651?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] on Thursday.

Related: Russian warplanes destroyed in Crimea airbase attack, satellite images show [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/11/russian-warplanes-destroyed-in-crimea-saky-airbase-attack-satellite-images-show]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.46am BST

block-time published-time 5.36am BST

Ukraine claims 9 Russian jets destroyed in Crimea raid

Ukraine says nine Russian aircraft were destroyed on the ground following Tuesday’s dramatic explosions at the Saky airbase in Crimea, which Russia said killed one, wounded 13 and damaged dozens of nearby houses.

Political sources in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] said the country had carried out the attack – but no public claim of responsibility was made by Kyiv.

Yuriy Ignat, a spokesperson for the Ukrainian air force, told national television that from studying video footage of the incident, it was clear “the aircraft weapons depot was hit”. He said: “And if additionally a dozen planes[https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2022/08/10/7362605/] are destroyed there, it will be a real small victory.”

The country’s air force also said on its Facebook page that “nine invader planes” had been destroyed in a short posting, although it did not specify in that message where or how it believed they had been eliminated.

This satellite image provided by Planet Labs PBC shows destroyed Russian aircraft at Saki airbase after an explosion Tuesday, 9 August. Photograph: Planet Labs PBC/AP

Ukraine’s president, Volodoymyr Zelenskiy, referred to the attack in his latest national address on Wednesday evening.

In just one day, the occupiers lost 10 combat aircraft: nine in Crimea[https://www.theguardian.com/world/crimea] and one more in the direction of Zaporizhzhia. The occupiers also suffer new losses of armoured vehicles, warehouses with ammunition, logistics routes.”

The claims could not be verified but the Saky airbase is home to Su-30M fighters, Su-24 bombers and the Il-76 transporter, used regularly to launch missile strikes into Ukraine and patrol the Black Sea and surrounding area.

Ukraine’s public coyness about the attack is partly designed to preserve some ambiguity about the means used, sources said, prompting broad speculation as to how Kyiv was able to strike so deep behind Russian lines, in one of the first attacks on Crimean soil since the Russian invasion began in February.

Related: Ukraine air force claims up to a dozen Russian jets destroyed in Crimea raid[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/10/ukraine-air-force-claims-russian-jets-destroyed-crimea-raid]

block-time published-time 5.29am BST

Summary and welcome

Hello and welcome back to the Guardian’s live coverage of the war in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

I’m Samantha Lock and I will be bringing you all the latest developments for the next short while until my colleague, Martin Belam, takes the reins.

At least eight Russian warplanes appear to have been damaged or destroyed in the recent attack on Saky airbase[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/10/ukraine-air-force-claims-russian-jets-destroyed-crimea-raid] in Crimea, according to newly released satellite images.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/11/russian-warplanes-destroyed-in-crimea-saky-airbase-attack-satellite-images-show]

The first wartime wheat from Ukraine should ship next week after agreement signed by Russia and Ukraine last month lifted a Russian blockade of Ukraine’s ports and established safe corridors, a top UN official has said.

The UN Security Council will hold an emergency meeting later today to address the crisis at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, diplomatic sources told Agence France-Presse.

It is 7.30am in Ukraine. Here is everything you might have missed:

*

Ukraine has accused Russia of firing rockets from around the captured Zaporizhzhianuclear power plant, killing at least 13 people and wounding 10[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/10/thirteen-civilians-killed-in-russian-shelling-near-ukrainian-nuclear-plant], knowing it would be risky for Ukraine to return fire. Ukraine says Russia targeted the town of Marhanets, which Moscow says Ukraine has used in the past to shell Russian soldiers at the plant, which Russia seized in March. Calling on foreign allies to send more powerful weapons, Zelenskiy said in a late-night video address that Kyiv “will not leave today’s Russian shelling of the Dnipropetrovsk region unanswered”, and vowed to inflict as much damage on Russia as possible to end the war quickly.

*

Ukraine’s air force said it believed up to a dozen Russian aircraft were destroyed[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/10/ukraine-air-force-claims-russian-jets-destroyed-crimea-raid] on the ground in Tuesday’s dramatic explosions at the Saky airbase in Crimea, which Russia said killed one, wounded 13 and damaged dozens of nearby houses. Political sources in Ukraine said it had carried out the attack, but Kyiv did not publicly claim responsibility. One expert said it may have been the product of a daring raid rather than a missile strike.

*

The British defence secretary, Ben Wallace, said he thought the Saky airbase in Crimea was a “legitimate target” for Ukraine. “ First and foremost, Russia has illegally invaded, not just in 2014, but now Ukrainian territory,” he said. “Ukraine, under UN articles, is perfectly entitled to defend its territory and take what action it needs to against an invading force.”

*

Pro-Russian separatists accused Ukraine of shelling a brewery in the occupied eastern city of Donetsk on Wednesday, killing one person and triggering a leak of ammonia that sparked a fire.

*

The EU has been urged to put a travel ban on Russian tourists[https://www.theguardian.com/travel/2022/aug/10/eu-under-pressure-to-ban-russian-tourists-from-europe], with some member states saying visiting Europe is “a privilege, not a human right” for holidaymakers. Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy[https://www.theguardian.com/world/volodymyr-zelenskiy], has told the Washington Post that the “most important sanction” is to “close the borders, because the Russians are taking away someone else’s land”.

*

China, which Russia has sought as an ally since being cold-shouldered by the west, has called the US the “main instigator” of the crisis, Reuters reported. In an interview with the Russian state news agency Tass published on Wednesday, China’s ambassador to Moscow, Zhang Hanhui, accused Washington of backing Russia into a corner with repeated expansion of the Nato defence alliance.

*

The UN expects to see a “big uptick” in applications for ships to export Ukrainian grain after transit procedures were agreed by Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and the United Nations, a senior UN official said on Wednesday. The number of inbound vessels is expected to “grow in the near future” as grain deals are made, said Frederick Kenney, interim UN coordinator in Istanbul. So far, 24 grain carrying ships have left Ukrainian ports.

*

Estonia said it had summoned the Russian ambassador and formally protested about the violation of its airspace by a Russian helicopter on Tuesday. “Estonia considers this an extremely serious and regrettable incident that is completely unacceptable,” the ministry announced, saying the helicopter had flown over Estonia’s south-east without permission.

*

Ukraine’s overseas creditors have backed its request for a two-year freeze on payments on almost $20bn in international bonds, allowing it to avoid a debt default, Reuters reported. Ukraine’s prime minister says it will save the country almost $6bn, while helping to stabilise its economy and strengthen its army.

Ukrainian servicemen ride atop tanks near a front line in Mykolaiv region, Ukraine , on 10 August. Photograph: Reuters

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220811ei8b000p4


CE Noticias Financieras English
Queen Margrethe of Denmark tested positive for COVID after attending Elizabeth II's funeral
586 字
2022 年 9 月 22 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Queen Margrethe II of Denmark tested positive for COVID-19, according to an announcement made by the Danish Royal Palace. The monarch had been present Monday in London at the funeral of her third cousin, Queen Elizabeth II, for which she had canceled a series of events.

Margaret, 82, has already received three doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus and had contracted the disease in February this year. At that time, she had mild symptoms.

Although the severity of the disease is still unknown this time, her entourage announced the suspension of all her events without giving much detail: "The Queen's activities this week have been cancelled".

Margrethe II is the eldest daughter of Frederick IX and Ingrid of Sweden. She came to the throne on January 14, 1972 thanks to a constitutional amendment that, in 1953, allowed women to be heirs.

Thus, she became the first female monarch in the country since Margaret I -who had reigned in 1375- and, with the death of Queen Elizabeth II, the only woman to hold the office in Europe. Also, she is now the sovereign with the longest reign on the entire continent. "I will remain on the throne until I fall," she had said in the past.

Looking around the world, she is surpassed by four years in office by Muda Hassanal Bolkiah, the sultan of Brunei,

Margarita II was widowed in 2018. During her reign she places special emphasis on modernizing the Monarchy.

The funeral of Queen Elizabeth II

After the ten days of mourning arranged, the burial of the monarch finally took place on Monday. Now, she rests next to her husband Philip of Edinburgh in the chapel of Windsor Castle.

A long list of dignitaries from all over the world were present to pay their last respects; Westminster Abbey estimated around 500.

Among them, the President of the United States, Joe Biden; of France, Emmanuel Macron; of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro; of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan; and the Japanese Emperor Naruhito, together with Empress Masako, among others, traveled to London.

There was also a strong presence of monarchies such as King Harald V of Norway, Prince Albert II of Monaco, Dutch King Willem-Alexander, Swedish King Carl XVI Gustaf and Philippe, King of the Belgians.

Also in attendance were King Felipe VI of Spain, along with his wife Queen Letizia, and his father, former King Juan Carlos I.

However, a small group of nations were excluded from the ceremony. Countries such as Myanmar, Syria, Venezuela and Afghanistan did not receive invitations. Neither did Russia and Belarus, as a sanction for the invasion of Ukraine launched in February this year.

President Valdimir Putin was already banned from traveling to the United Kingdom, so he had already announced his absence. However, the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman in Moscow declared that not having invited any Russian representative to the funeral was "particularly blasphemous towards the morals of Elizabeth II" and "deeply immoral".

Finally, in the case of the Iranian regime, Nicaragua and North Korea, only the ambassadors were summoned and not the heads of state, due to the tense ties with the United Kingdom.

(With information from ABC)

The 90 most shocking photos of the state funeral of Queen Elizabeth II

This is how Elizabeth II was buried with her husband Philip of Edinburgh in the chapel of Windsor Castle.

Why Queen Elizabeth II's coffin is so heavy

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220922ei9m002bj


News
EU, NATO say Nord Stream gas pipelines were sabotaged
736 字
2022 年 9 月 28 日 11:01 GMT
Al Jazeera English
AJAZEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Al Jazeera English.
As gas continues to spew into the Baltic Sea the cause remains far from clear, but some are pointing at Russia.

Click to view image[https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&tid=UA-1615344-99&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.aljazeera.com%2Fnews%2F2022%2F9%2F28%2Fnord-stream-pipeline-damage-not-a-concidence-says-eu&cid=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D&t=pageview&cd2=post-aje-1872058&cd3=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D]

Sudden and unexplained leaks from the undersea Nord Stream pipelines from Russia to Germany appear “not a coincidence”, the European Union has said, a statement which adds weight to fears of sabotage[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/9/27/qa-what-is-known-so-far-about-the-nord-stream-gas-pipeline-leak].

The bloc’s foreign policy chief Josep Borrell warned on Wednesday: “Any deliberate disruption of European energy infrastructure is utterly unacceptable and will be met with a robust and united response.

“All available information indicates those leaks are the result of a deliberate act.”

As gas continued to spew into the Baltic Sea, it remained far from clear who might be behind the leaks or any foul play, if proven, on the pipelines that Russia and European partners spent billions of dollars building.

The pipelines recently burst in several locations in the exclusive economic zones of Denmark and Sweden while neither of them was in operation amid an energy standoff between Russia and Europe.

NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg overtly attributed the leaks to sabotage.

“Discussed the sabotage on the NorthStream pipelines with Defence Minister Morten Bødskov,” he said on Twitter, referring to the Danish official.

“We addressed the protection of critical infrastructure in NATO countries.”

Operator Nord Stream has called the damage “unprecedented”, while Gazprom, the Russian-controlled company with a monopoly on its gas exports by pipeline, declined to comment.

After the leaks were reported, Ukraine accused Russia of damaging the pipeline, saying the alleged actions amount to “nothing more than a terrorist attack.”

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Tuesday, when asked about sabotage: “No option can be ruled out right now.”

He added that the energy security situation for the “entire continent” requires prompt investigation.

On Wednesday, Peskov dismissed suggestions that Russia was responsible for possible attacks on the Nord Stream gas pipelines as “quite predictable and also predictably stupid”.

Gas bubbles from the Nord Stream 2 leak reached the surface of the Baltic Sea [Danish Defence Command/Handout via Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/2022-09-27T130452Z_309811351_RC2OPW9Y2OTL_RTRMADP_3_UKRAINE-CRISIS-DENMARK-REGULATOR.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C466]

Two gas leaks

On Tuesday, Sweden and Denmark reported significant leaks from the two pipelines.

The leaks were detected on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline, which stopped delivering gas to Europe last month, both in an area northeast of the Danish island of Bornholm.

Danish authorities have asked ships to stay clear by a five nautical-mile radius off Bornholm after the leak at Nord Stream 2, which has yet to enter commercial operations.

The plan to use it to supply gas was scrapped by Germany days before Russia sent troops into Ukraine in February.

Footage published by Danish authorities from the damaged pipeline showed bubbles rushing to the surface of the Baltic sea.

The surface disturbance was reported to be well over 1 kilometre in diameter.

Environmentally, the escaping greenhouse methane gas would have a damaging climate impact.

Denmark’s Bødskov pointed at Moscow.

“Russia has a significant military presence in the Baltic Sea region and we expect them to continue their sabre-rattling,” he said.

United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken said: “If it is confirmed, that’s clearly in no one’s interest.

“My understanding is the leaks will not have a significant impact on Europe’s energy resilience.”

Natural gas pipeline in northeastern Germany, close to the border with Poland – the industrial infrastructure includes a receiving and distribution station for the Nord Stream 1 pipeline. [File: Odd Andersen/ AFP][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/000_32HK36K.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C491]

The EU on Wednesday rushed to ramp up security to safeguard the bloc’s energy infrastructure in response to the damage, while warning of a “robust and united response” in case of further attacks.

At the same time, Gazprom, which supplies gas to Europe via Ukraine, announced in a statement that Russia could sanction Ukraine’s Naftogaz due to ongoing arbitration, a move which could heighten Europe’s energy woes.

Analysts at ING bank said: “This is an important development to watch because if Naftogaz is sanctioned, Gazprom will not be able to pay transit fees to the company for Russian gas which goes via Ukraine to Europe.

This risked the complete halt of flows and would tighten up the European market further heading into the heating season, ING’s analysts said.

Pipes at the landfall facilities of the 'Nord Stream 1' gas pipeline in Lubmin, Germany [File: Hannibal Hanschke/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/2022-08-30T220117Z_261649798_RC2AYS9A1VTW_RTRMADP_3_UKRAINE-CRISIS-NORDSTREAM.jpg]

Al Jazeera International

文件 AJAZEN0020220928ei9s000gw


European Court of Human Rights decision: LARABA v. DENMARK
1903 字
2022 年 10 月 5 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Brussels: European Court of Human Rights has issued the following decision on (22 March 2022):

SECOND SECTION DECISION

Application no. 26781/19

Anis LARABA against Denmark

The European Court of Human Rights (Second Section), sitting on 22 March 2022 as a Chamber composed of:

Carlo Ranzoni, President, Jon Fridrik Kjølbro, Egidijus Kūris, Pauliine Koskelo, Jovan Ilievski, Saadet Yüksel, Diana Sârcu, judges, and Stanley Naismith, Section Registrar, Having regard to the above application lodged on 3 May 2019, Having deliberated, decides as follows:

THE FACTS

The circumstances of the case

1. The applicant, Mr Anis Laraba, has dual nationality, Danish and Algerian. He was born in Denmark in 1995 and lives in Horsens. He was represented before the Court by Mr Michael Juul Eriksen, a lawyer practising in Aarhus.

2. The facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows.

3. In spring 2016 the Danish Security and Intelligence Service received a list from Interpol with the names of persons believed to have been recruited by the terrorist organisation Islamic State and to have operated in Syria. The applicant's name was on the list.

4. On 7 April 2016 the applicant was arrested and provisionally charged on the basis of information that he had allegedly entered Syria and had accepted his recruitment by the terrorist organisation Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The following day the applicant was remanded in custody.

5. By a District Court (Retten i Glostrup) judgment of 13 December 2017, the applicant was convicted of a violation of Article 114c(3) and Article 114d(3) of the Penal Code for having joined Islamic State from July 2013 to April 2014 with the purpose of committing terrorist crimes. He was sentenced to 5 years' imprisonment. Moreover, he was deprived of his Danish citizenship and his expulsion from Denmark was ordered with a permanent re-entry ban.

6. On appeal, on 22 November 2018 the judgment was upheld by the High Court of Eastern Denmark (Østre Landsret).

7. Leave to appeal to the Supreme Court (Højesteret) was refused on 7 March 2019 by the Appeals Permission Board (Procesbevillingsnævnet).

8. The Danish courts noted from the outset that, according to the preparatory work on section 8b of the Act on Danish Nationality, the assessment of whether to withdraw a person's citizenship should be based on a weighing up of the severity of the offence and the impact on the person concerned of the withdrawal of his or her citizenship.

9. As to the severity of the offence, the courts noted that the applicant had been convicted of very serious terrorist crimes under the Penal Code.

10. As to the impact on the applicant of the withdrawal of his citizenship, they took into account that the applicant had been born and raised in Denmark to a Danish mother and an Algerian father who had later also acquired Danish nationality. The applicant's parents and siblings lived in Denmark. He did not have a family of his own. He had family in Algeria, where he had been on holiday with his father around 2011. He spoke Danish and, by his own account, some Arabic. The District Court noted, however, that the applicant had corrected the Prosecutor, when the latter was referring to an Arabic translation during the criminal proceedings. Moreover, in 2016 the applicant had been admitted to the University in Medina to study Sharia in Arabic, but he had been detained in this case before he could go.

11. After having weighed the severity of the offence against the impact of withdrawal of the applicant's citizenship based on an assessment of his situation, including his ties with Denmark and Algeria, his family situation and his language skills, the courts found that his Danish citizenship should be withdrawn. It also found that the conditions in the Danish Aliens Act for expelling the accused had been met. It found that none of these measures would be in breach of Article 8 of the Convention.

Relevant domestic law and Council of Europe documents

12. The relevant domestic law and Council of Europe documents were recently set out in Adam Johansen v. Denmark (dec.), no. 27801/19, §§ 21‑28, 1 February 2022.

COMPLAINT

13. The applicant complained that the order to withdraw his Danish citizenship and to expel him from Denmark was in violation of Article 8 of the Convention.

THE LAW

14. The applicant relied on Article 8 of the Convention, which reads as follows:

"1. Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence.

2. There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic well-being of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others."

Deprivation of citizenship

15. The Court notes that the general principles applicable to cases involving deprivation of nationality are well-established in the Court's case‑law (see, for example K2 v. the United Kingdom (dec.), no. 42387/13, §§ 49-50, 7 February 2017, Mansour Said Abdul Salam Mubarak v. Denmark (dec.), no. 74411/16, §§ 62-63, 22 January 2019, Ghoumid and Others v. France, no. 52273/16, §§ 43-44, 25 June 2020, Usmanov v. Russia, no. 43936/18, §§ 52-54, 22 December 2020, and Adam Johansen v. Denmark (dec.), cited above, §§ 44-45 and 52-55).

Arbitrariness

16. The decision to deprive the applicant of his Danish citizenship was based on section 8b of the Act on Danish Nationality. The Court is satisfied by the clarity of the domestic law and can therefore conclude that the decision was "in accordance with the law" (see also, Mansour Said Abdul Salam Mubarak v. Denmark (dec.), cited above, § 64, and Adam Johansen v. Denmark (dec.), cited above, § 47).

17. The applicant had an opportunity to contest the prosecuting authorities' request to strip him of his Danish citizenship before the domestic courts at two levels of jurisdiction, and he has not alleged any procedural shortcomings in this regard. Accordingly, the applicant was afforded the procedural safeguards required by Article 8 of the Convention (see, a contrario, Usmanov, cited above § 66).

18. The Court is also satisfied that the authorities acted diligently and swiftly. It observes that in spring 2016 the Danish Security and Intelligence Service received information from Interpol, leading to the applicant's arrest on 7 April 2016. On 13 December 2017 the applicant was convicted by the District Court. The judgment was upheld by the High Court on 22 November 2018 and became final on 7 March 2019, when leave to appeal was refused by the Appeals Permission Board.

19. Finally, the revocation of the applicant's Danish citizenship was the consequence of his conviction for a very serious terrorist crime under articles 114c(3) and 114d(3) of the Penal Code. The deprivation of his Danish nationality complained of was thus to a large extent a result of the applicant's own choices and actions (see, inter alia, Ramadan v. Malta, no. 76136/12, § 89, 21 June 2016). Moreover, as the Court has underlined on numerous occasions, terrorist violence, in itself, constitutes a grave threat to human rights. Accordingly, the Court considers it legitimate for Contracting States to take a firm stand against those who contribute to terrorist acts, which it cannot condone in any circumstances (see, for example, Ghoumid, cited above, § 50, and the references mentioned therein).

20. The Court therefore concludes that the decision of the Danish courts to deprive the applicant of his Danish citizenship was not arbitrary.

Consequences of the revocation

21. It is not in dispute that the applicant was not rendered stateless by the decision to deprive him of his Danish citizenship (see also, among others, K2 v. United Kingdom, cited above, § 62).

22. The preparatory work on section 8b of the Act on Danish Nationality set out that the assessment of whether to withdraw a person's citizenship should be based on a weighing of the seriousness of the offence and the impact on the person concerned. Accordingly, the domestic courts carefully assessed the consequences for the applicant of a revocation of his Danish citizenship in the light of his ties with Denmark and Algeria.

23. The courts took account of the fact that the applicant was born in Denmark, to a Danish mother and an Algerian father who had later also acquired Danish nationality. The applicant had therefore acquired dual nationality by birth. He had strong ties with Denmark, where his parents and siblings lived. He did not have a family of his own. He spoke Danish. They also found that the applicant had some ties with Algeria. He had been there on holiday with his father around 2011. Although he claimed to speak only some Arabic, it was noted that he had corrected the Prosecutor, when the latter was referring to an Arabic translation during the criminal proceedings. Moreover, in 2016 he had been admitted to the University in Medina to study Sharia in Arabic (see paragraph 10 above). In conclusion, based on an overall balancing test, the Danish courts found that the deprivation of the applicant's Danish nationality would not be a disproportionate sanction.

24. The Court finds reason to emphasise that, as opposed to section 8b of the Act on Danish Nationality and, for example, the compatibility of an expulsion order with Article 8 of the Convention, the compatibility of withdrawal of a person's citizenship is not based on a balancing test of specific criteria, but on the requirement that two separate issues have been addressed: whether the revocation was arbitrary and what the consequences of revocation were for the applicant (see, for example, Adam Johansen v. Denmark (dec.), cited above, § 68).

25. In the present case, the Court is satisfied that the domestic courts diligently addressed the consequences of depriving the applicant of his Danish citizenship.

26. Moreover, in the Court's view, taking into account that the applicant was convicted for having joined Islamic State with the purpose of committing terrorist crimes, which themselves constitute a serious threat to human rights and which to a large extent showed his lack of attachment to Denmark and its values (see, mutatis mutandis, Ghoumid and Others v. France, cited above, § 50), the fact that the applicant in the present case had obtained Danish nationality by birth does not significantly alter or add to the consequences for him (see also Adam Johansen v. Denmark (dec.), cited above, § 70).

Conclusion

27. In view of the above, the Court is satisfied that the domestic courts' assessment of the decision to revoke the applicant's nationality was adequate and sufficient, and does not disclose any appearance of arbitrariness or omission with regard to the applicant's arguments. Consequently, this part of the application must be rejected as manifestly ill-founded pursuant to Article 35 § 3(a) and 4 of the Convention (see also Ghoumid and Others v. France, cited above, §§ 51-52, K2 v. United Kingdom (dec.), cited above, § 67, Mansour Said Abdul Salam Mubarak v. Denmark (dec.), cited above, § 71, and Adam Johansen v. Denmark, cited above, § 71).

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020221006eia50003r


CE Noticias Financieras English
"Sabotage", Baltic pipeline explosions
2315 字
2022 年 10 月 15 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
For Moscow, it was "international terrorism" against it. According to Ukraine and Poland, it was an act staged by Russia to discredit its European rivals. The only certainty -according to investigations by Denmark and Sweden presented to the UN- is that the explosions in the Nord Stream 1 and 2 gas pipelines -works that Washington never looked favorably upon- were not accidental.

PARIS (Proceso) - Russia, the United States, Ukraine and the European Union agree on at least one point: the explosions that damaged the Nord Stream 2 and Nord Stream 1 gas pipelines on September 26 and 27 in the Baltic, near the Danish island of Bornholm and the Swedish coast, were not accidental.

So much for unanimity.

On the same day, the governments of Denmark and Sweden entrusted the investigation of the events to their respective secret services; the first conclusions, presented on September 30 to the UN Security Council - meeting at the request of Russia - revealed that the "magnitude of these explosions reached respectively levels 2.3 and 2.1 on the Richter scale; that is to say the equivalent of an explosive charge of hundreds of kilos".

Without accusing anyone, the Scandinavian political authorities specified that "all available information indicates that these explosions are the consequence of a deliberate act".

Two days later, Berlin announced that a special group of investigators, headed by the German intelligence services, was preparing to work in close collaboration with their Danish and Swedish counterparts.

Moscow immediately opened a criminal case for "international terrorism."

"The intentional actions aimed at damaging the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines caused considerable economic losses to the Russian Federation," denounced the Russian prosecutor's office, which entrusted the investigations into the leaks in international waters - two in the Danish exclusive economic zone and one or two in the Swedish one - to its Federal Security Service.

The construction of the two pipelines is estimated to have cost around $17 billion, 51% of which was borne by Gazprom, the Russian operator of Nord Stream 1 and 2.

On September 30 Vladimir Putin made his speech more explicit, prior to the signing of the annexation to Russia of four Ukrainian eastern regions: "Sanctions are not enough for the Anglo-Saxons; they have moved on to unbelievable sabotage. But this is a fact, having organized explosions on the international gas pipelines of Nord Stream, stretching across the bottom of the Baltic Sea," he literally said.

But for Ukraine there is not the slightest doubt: the culprits are the Russians. "The large-scale gas leak from Nord Stream 1 is nothing but a terrorist attack planned by Russia and an act of aggression against the EU," tweeted Mikhail Podolyak, top advisor to Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelensky, a few hours after the explosions.

Polish authorities think the same. "We can clearly see that it is an act of sabotage, an act that probably marks the next stage in the escalation of the situation we are facing in Ukraine," said Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, pointing without naming Russia and without having the first results of the Scandinavian investigation.

In Washington, both President Joe Biden and Secretary of State Antony Blinken have refrained from openly incriminating Russia. The former announced the dispatch of submarines to the site of the explosions to help "European allies determine what really happened"; the latter dismissed Putin's thinly veiled accusations against the United States.

The European, U.S. and Russian investigations threaten to be complex and highly contentious.

The alleged sabotage of Nord Stream 1 and 2 is the latest chapter, and perhaps the epilogue, of an odyssey that for years pitted Russia and Germany on the one hand against the United States on the other. It would take a book to detail the implausible obstacles and multiple threats unleashed by Washington against the Russian-German initiative to build the pipelines.

In 1997 Gazprom and the Finnish company Neste created a consortium - North Transgas Oy - to build a gas pipeline between Russia and Europe.

The project, sponsored by Moscow and Berlin - Germany is Europe's largest importer and consumer of gas - was ambitious and only came to fruition in 2005 with the signing of an agreement between Gazprom and five European gas companies: Germany's Wintershall and Uniper, France's Engie, Austria's OMV and the Anglo-Dutch Shell.

Construction began on this sophisticated 1,224-kilometer project -most of it underwater- which has two parallel branches inaugurated respectively in November 2011 and October 2012. Nord Stream 1 allows the annual transit of 55 billion cubic meters of gas between the city of Vyborg, neighboring St. Petersburg, and Greifswald in the German region of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. Russian needs

Its Baltic Sea route meets the strategic requirements of Putin, who claims to have every reason to dispense with the Ukrainian land route. The Russian president claims that Kiev refuses to pay the debts it contracted with Russia, that it diverts part of the gas for its own benefit and that it "profits too much" from the rights of transit of gas through its territory.

In reality, the Kremlin sought to get rid of its dependence on Ukraine and partially succeeded: in 1994, 91% of its gas exports to Europe passed through Ukraine; in 2018, six years after the implementation of Nord Stream, that percentage dropped to 41%.

The relationship between the "enemy brothers", which began to deteriorate with the Orange Revolution (2004-2005), became downright hostile starting with the 2014 Ukrainian revolution, which enjoyed broad NATO support.

The situation led to the internationally condemned annexation of Crimea by Russia and provoked an undeclared war in the Donbas region between Kiev and Moscow-backed Ukrainian separatists.

Despite growing tensions in the region, in 2012 Gazprom and its European partners agreed on the need to build a second pipeline - Nord Stream 2 - parallel to the first, also equipped with two branches that would allow an additional annual transit of 55 billion cubic meters of gas between Oust-Louga, 200 kilometers from St. Petersburg, and the German city of Greifswald itself. And that is where the problems began.

The project ran into stiff opposition from Ukraine, Poland and the United States, for both ideological and economic reasons.

Ukraine did not want to continue losing transit rights for Russian gas through its territory. The remaining rights after the creation of Nord Stream 1, although reduced, still represent 3% of its GDP.

Poland - Russia's historical enemy and staunch ally of the United States - wanted to become the largest importer of US liquefied natural gas (LNG) in Europe and was seeking to put an end to competition from Russian gas, which is much cheaper.

It is for the same reason that Washington launched its crusade against Nord Stream 2. The White House also expressed, increasingly openly and aggressively, its fear that the new pipeline would increase Europe's energy dependence on Russia and undermine the effect of the sanctions it has been multiplying against the Kremlin since the annexation of Crimea.

The U.S. frontal attack began in 2017. Without waiting for Nord Stream 2 construction to begin, Congress adopted the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) and the Senate the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act, which threatened to sanction entities and individuals investing or working on the pipeline project.

The European Commission countered by brandishing retaliation against Washington. Trump backed down, at least - momentarily.

Work on Nord Stream 2 - which Angela Merkel defended against all odds - began in April 2018. That project was of paramount importance for Germany, which pledged to give up nuclear power by 2022 and coal by 2038. The country needs a regular and permanent gas supply with stable and affordable prices as it moves towards renewable energy sources.

The United States was quick to resume hostilities, taking advantage of internal divisions within the European Union. Supported essentially by Poland, Estonia, Lithuania and Denmark, the White House wielded the threat of "relentless tariffs" to force the European Union (EU) to open its market widely to U.S. LNG - "the gas of freedom", according to Trump - at the expense of Russia's "totalitarian gas". The new European energy directives multiplied the administrative obstacles to Nord Stream 2.

As denounced by Le Monde Diplomatique in an extensive analysis on the subject, published in May 2021, the capitulation of the European Council to the Trump administration was largely due to the "spectacular U-turn by Emmanuel Macron", who withdrew his solidarity to the group supporting the pipeline, composed of Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece and Cyprus.

Le Monde Diplomatique continues, "After the warning shot, the cannon shot: as if it were entirely obvious that European energy policy is decided in Washington, U.S. parliamentarians from both parties approve in December 2019 the European Energy Security Protection Act, a salvo of 'sanctions freezing the visas and assets of any foreign person or entity that helps pipeline-laying vessels to build Russian-origin infrastructure ending in Germany or Turkey.'"

The result was not long in coming: these extraterritorial measures, which lacked any legitimacy, paralyzed the construction of the pipeline.

As if that were not enough, in July 2020 the Trump administration again brought up the 2017 CAATSA, which threatened to prevent access to the dollar system for companies and citizens of Germany involved in one way or another in the pipeline project.

"In a letter dated August 5, 2020, three U.S. congressmen order the directors of two German ports to renounce all participation in Nord Stream 2," insists Le Monde Diplomatique.

Frank-Walter Steinmeier, President of Germany, who considered the pipeline as "one of the last bridges between Russia and Europe", did not capitulate. Merkel chose to negotiate with Washington: she asked the Trump administration to give her a free hand with Nord Stream 2 in exchange for the construction of terminals dedicated to U.S. LNG in two German ports.

The poisoning of Aleksei Navalny, a leading figure in the opposition to Putin, in August 2020 and his imprisonment in January 2021 galvanized German, European and, of course, American opponents of the pipeline. All demanded new sanctions against Russia, including a halt to the construction of Nord Stream 2.

Joe Biden arrived at the White House that same January 2021. As opposed to the pipeline as Trump, the new president was more diplomatic than his predecessor. Indeed, his priority was to revitalize the much-degraded bilateral relations with Germany.

On May 19, 2021, Blinken affirmed that the United States was suspending sanctions against the pipeline, in a rather ambiguous official statement in which he emphasized, "Our opposition to Nord Stream 2 remains unwavering."

Nevertheless, construction of the pipeline progressed and was completed on September 10, 2021. Merkel immediately launched its certification by the Federal Network Agency, Germany's energy regulatory authority. That procedure was the last stage before the commissioning of Nord Stream 2.

Three months later, on December 8, the Social Democrat Olaf Scholz took over as Germany's new Chancellor.

A former finance minister under Merkel, Scholz was in favor of the pipeline, but not part of her coalition government, whose environmental ministers, among others, opposed the project from its inception.

On February 7, 2022, Scholz met at length with Biden during his first official visit to Washington. The atmosphere was tense. The White House had been warning for weeks about a possible invasion of Ukraine by Russia and more than ever had Nord Stream 2 in its sights.

The press conference that the two leaders gave together was very special. Biden stated bluntly: "If Russia invades Ukraine, that means tanks and troops crossing the border... there will be no more Nord Stream 2.

Scholz mentioned sanctions against Moscow, without specifying which ones. He did not make the slightest allusion to the pipeline and seemed unperturbed when Biden, questioned by journalists about the means he would use to "put an end to Nord Stream 2", answered: "I promise you we will be able to do it".

That cryptic phrase was not much commented on in February, but it took on a different prominence on September 26, when Maria Zakharova, a spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, linked it to the Nord Stream explosions. The Kremlin demanded an explanation from the White House.

On February 21, three days before the invasion of Ukraine, Putin recognized the independence of the four separatist eastern regions of that country. Scholz's reaction was immediate: he suspended the certification procedure for Nord Stream 2. The White House applauded his decision, not forgetting to mention that it was the result of "a consultation with Joe Biden".

Throughout August and September Gazprom played on the nerves of the European leaders by interrupting and partially restarting the operation of Nord Stream 1, officially for technical reasons. According to spokesmen for the Russian energy giant, the economic sanctions imposed on Russia prevented it from obtaining a turbine essential for the maintenance of the pipeline.

On September 26, powerful explosions hit Nord Stream 2 and the following day it was the turn of Nord Stream 1. On the same day, the 27th, meeting in the Polish city of Goleniów, the leaders of Poland, Denmark and Norway officially inaugurated the Baltic Pipe, a gas pipeline that allows Oslo to export 10 billion cubic meters of gas to Poland, as well as 3 billion cubic meters to Denmark and other countries in the region and whose construction costs were assumed by the Polish energy operator Gaz-System and its Danish counterpart Energinet, with European subsidies.

"The era of Russian domination in the gas field, marked by blackmail, threats and extortion, is coming to an end," proclaimed Morawiecki. This article was published on October 9 in the 2397th edition of Proceso magazine, whose digital edition can be purchased at this link.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221015eiaf008iu


Denmark: Grundfos waives responsibility for breaching sanction
M-Brain
106 字
2022 年 10 月 27 日
Esmerk Danish News
ESMDA
英文
Copyright 2022. M-Brain
CleantechWatch, 27 Oct 2022, online:- Danish pump manufacturer Grundfos has responded to an article by Cleantech Watch by stating that it neither knew nor had reasonable grounds to suspect that the pumps it supplied to the Crimean Peninsula in 2021 would end up there. CleantechWatch recently reported that the Danish Business Authority had investigated the company for breaching sanctions imposed on Russia in 2014. Grundfos said the case was closed already in June 2021, with a conclusion that the company was not liable because it did not know or had reason to assume where the pumps would be.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMDA00020221028eias0000j


Denmark: Grundfos waives responsibility for breaching sanction
M-Brain
106 字
2022 年 10 月 27 日
Esmerk Danish News
ESMDA
英文
Copyright 2022. M-Brain
CleantechWatch, 27 Oct 2022, online:- Danish pump manufacturer Grundfos has responded to an article by Cleantech Watch by stating that it neither knew nor had reasonable grounds to suspect that the pumps it supplied to the Crimean Peninsula in 2021 would end up there. CleantechWatch recently reported that the Danish Business Authority had investigated the company for breaching sanctions imposed on Russia in 2014. Grundfos said the case was closed already in June 2021, with a conclusion that the company was not liable because it did not know or had reason to assume where the pumps would be.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMDA00020221031eiav0000j


Denmark: Grundfos waives responsibility for breaching sanction
M-Brain
106 字
2022 年 10 月 27 日
Esmerk Danish News
ESMDA
英文
Copyright 2022. M-Brain
CleantechWatch, 27 Oct 2022, online:- Danish pump manufacturer Grundfos has responded to an article by Cleantech Watch by stating that it neither knew nor had reasonable grounds to suspect that the pumps it supplied to the Crimean Peninsula in 2021 would end up there. CleantechWatch recently reported that the Danish Business Authority had investigated the company for breaching sanctions imposed on Russia in 2014. Grundfos said the case was closed already in June 2021, with a conclusion that the company was not liable because it did not know or had reason to assume where the pumps would be.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMDA00020221103eib30000j


CE Noticias Financieras English
Qatar 2022 World Cup, LIVE: Poland's goalkeeper suffered a chilling injury, will miss the Cup and already has a replacement
6807 字
2022 年 11 月 13 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
One of the negative notes of Sunday's match was the severe injury suffered by goalkeeper Bartlomiej Dragowski, who had been called up for the Polish national team, Argentina's third opponent in the group stage. The Italian Spezia player went to reject a ball outside the area and suffered a serious injury. Shortly after his seriousness was confirmed, it was confirmed who will be his replacement.

LIVENews in Development13.11.2022 17:06

17:

06The Mexican Federation joined FIFA's call for unityIna statement, the FMF assured that soccer "is a powerful tool that positively inspires people." In the Mexican Football Federation we are convinced of the enormous impact and convening power of the most followed sport on the planet," they continued.

"The World Cup summons us all to unity, respect and inclusion, fundamental values that soccer promotes," the text continued.

"Let us celebrate together that soccer is capable of positively transforming the world through its universal language, and let us join efforts so that the 32 participating teams and the fans around the world are promoters of universal values such as unity and respect," the statement concluded.

13.11.2022 16:37

16:37

Roma fans against Qatar World CupRoma fansexpressed their repudiation of the staging of the Qatar 2022 World Cup. Photo EFE.Roma fans expressed their repudiation of the realization of the Qatar 2022 World Cup, scheduled for Sunday, December 20-18, during the 1-1 draw against Torino for the 15th matchday of Serie A.

"Thousands of dead workers, environmental devastation. Qatar 2022 world shame," read a banner posted in the Curva Sud of the Italian capital's Olympic Stadium.

The Roma fans joined Borussia Dortmund fans, who at several of the team's Bundesliga matches, displayed banners to express their repudiation of the World Cup being held in Qatar.

In the latter case, the big difference is that the Italian national team did not qualify, as Germany did.

13.11.2022 15:51

15:51

Valverde, Uruguay's little bird who became a hawkFedeValverde (EFE/ JUANJO MARTÍN)Fede Valverde, Real Madrid midfielder, participated in the first training session of the Uruguay national team in Abu Dhabi prior to the Qatar 2022 World Cup. There he was delighted with the change of nickname from 'Pajarito', his first nickname, to 'Halcón'.

"All the people went along with the 'Hawk' thing. I liked it, which is the main thing. It was very funny to me and today there are people at home who are still angry because they want to keep calling me 'Pajarito', but I'm 'Halcón' now," he told the media.

Valverde indicated that his increasing prominence has been due to the fact that he improved his soccer level, mental level, and matured on and off the field, hence the change in the nickname.

13.11.2022 15:15

15:

15Brazil already starts to move in ItalyTite, DT of Brazil (REUTERS/Ricardo Moraes)DT Tite and some of the members of the delegation of Brazil arrived in Turin, where the "canarinha" will make the last part of their preparation for the World Cup Qatar 2022. The Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) chose the Continassa sports center, where Juventus trains, to begin the final stage of the preparation for the World Cup on Monday.

Tite's idea is that Brazil, the only five-time world champion, will train until Friday 18 in Turin, where the CBF announced that two meetings with the press will be held. The coach arrived in the Italian city with only three of the players who play in Brazil and were called up for Qatar 2022: Weverton, from Palmeiras, and Everton Ribeiro and Pedro, both from Flamengo13

.11.2022 14:32

14

:32

Poland defined the replacement for Bartlomiej Dragowski, the goalkeeper who was injured on SundayJuliánÁlvarez and Kamil Grabara, in the match between Manchester City and Copenhagen for the Champions League.REUTERS/Craig BroughKamilGrabara, goalkeeper of Copenhagen, has been chosen to replace the injured Bartlomiej Dragowski in the list of called-up players of Czeslaw Michniewicz, DT of Poland, for the World Cup of Qatar 2022.

Sources of the Polish Federation confirmed to the EFE agency that he will fill the place left by Dragowski, who suffered a serious injury playing for Spezia, against Verona. Grabara, 23, will complete the goalkeeping trio alongside Wojciech Szczesny and Lukasz Skorupski.

This year, Julian Alvarez scored a goal in Manchester City's 5-0 win over Copenhagen in the Champions League group stage. In that area, Gonzalo Montiel also scored a goal for him playing for Sevilla.

13.11.2022 13:49

13:49

"A refugee kid shouldn't have made it to the World Cup," Alphonse Davies' emotional post after his call-up to Qatar Canada and Bayern Munich midfielder Alphonso Davies celebrated his call-up to the Qatar World Cup with an emotional post, where he recalled his origins in a refugee camp

."A kid born in a refugee camp wasn't supposed to make it! But here's to GOING TO THE WORLD CUP. Don't let anyone tell you your dreams aren't realistic - KEEP DREAMING, KEEP DELIVERING!" the player wrote.

Davies was born in Buduburam, a refugee camp located 44 kilometers from the Ghanaian capital of Accra. His parents, from Liberia, were fleeing the civil war. Nearly 450,000 people fled the country at the time. In 2005 he only arrived in Edmonton, in Canada13

.11.2022 13:00

13:

00Canada presented the list of called-up players for the World Cup13.11.2022 12:30

12

:30

12:30

The brutal fracture of the substitute goalkeeper of Poland, Argentina's rival, that leaves him without World CupBartlomiejDragowski after the injury that will leave him without World Cup with the Poland National Team. Photo: Video capture.Bartlomiej Dragowski, of Italy's Spezia, went to reject a ball outside the box and suffered a tremendous injury, after being included in the final list of the Poles. Read more13

.11.2022 12:21

12

:21Penelope Canonico

Special: fans' unusual cabals and why it helps us to believe they workLegsand arms crossed. Leo Cartier's cabala to watch the National Team matches. Photo Guillermo Rodríguez AdamiForthe cabuleros, following a ritual is fundamental for the triumph of the National Team. Experts explain that these beliefs lower anxiety. Read more13

.11.2022 11:20

11

:20

7 days before the World Cup, FIFA recalled "that"matchThrough its Twitter account, the official account of the World Cup recalled Germany's historic drubbing of Brazil in the 2014 World Cup, with 7 days left until the opening match

.13.11.2022 10:31

10:31

Suspicions in Iran: the DT canceled the press conference where he was going to give the list of called-up playersCarlosQueiroz, Iran's coach, canceled the press conference he had planned to give the names of the 26 players who will go to the World Cup. It was abruptly, when all the journalists were already summoned to the press room.

Different international journalists indicate that there is pressure from the Iranian Football Federation on the DT not to take the striker Sardar Azmoun. The striker, who plays for Bayer Leverkusen in Germany, was shown on multiple occasions supporting protests against the government in Tehran.

13.11.2022 10:00

10:00 10:00

Netherlands alert: one of the called-up players left the pitch with a heavy knockDenzelDumfries left with a knock (REUTERS/Alberto Lingria)13.11.2022 10:00 10:00

10:

00Denzel Dumfries, the Inter defender, had to leave the pitch with a knee discomfort after colliding with an opponent in the match against Atalanta. The former Barcelona is one of the 26 called-up players Louis van Gaal had given for the Qatar 2022 World Cup.

13.11.2022 09:53

09:

53 Saudi Arabia, Argentina's first opponent, changed a player from its roster for dopingSaudiArabia striker FahadAl-Muwallad is out of the World Cup. Photo: REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoSurprisingfor the timing and the reason. With 9 days to go before the match against Argentina in the Qatar 2022 World Cup opener, Saudi Arabia announced on Sunday a change in its call-up list as a "precautionary measure" in the face of a possible anti-doping violation. Read more13

.11.2022 08:17

08:

17One week before the World Cup, what are the most attractive matches in the first phaseWithjust one week to go before the kick-off of the World Cup, the group phase promises a series of duels with enormous appeal, including clashes between former champions, or clashes of stars

.Brazil-Serbia (Group G - Thursday 24/11, 4 pm), the five-time champion against the phenomenon Dusan Vlahovic; France-Denmark (Group D, Saturday 26/11, 1 pm), the reigning champions of Kyllian Mbappe, Karim Benzema and Antoine Griezmann against the astonishing Danish team of Christian Erikssen; Spain-Germany (Group E, Sunday 27/11, 4 pm), a litmus test for Luis Enrique and Hansi Flick.

Portugal-Uruguay (Group H, Monday 28/11 4 pm), with Cristiano Ronaldo against Luis Suarez; and Poland-Argentina (Group C, Wednesday 30/11, 4 pm), with the clash between Lionel Messi and Robert Lewandowski, represent the five big duels of the World Cup group stage.

13.11.2022 03:54

03:54

Serbia, with glittering names and the promise of being the revelationSerbiawill be part of Group G along with Brazil, Switzerland and Cameroon. To reach Qatar, Serbia had to overcome a path in which it was not a favorite, since it shared the qualifying zone with Portugal. However, against all odds, they managed to qualify directly after winning 6 matches and drawing the remaining 2. The most outstanding feature of the team is the individual quality from midfield onwards. It has players such as Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, Dusan Vlahovic, Dusan Tadic, Filip Kostic, among others. So it will be a team that should not be underestimated. Read more.

13.11.2022 02:24

02:24

Saudi Arabia's striker who recovered just enough for the World CupSalehAl-Shehri celebrates a goal during the Asian Qualifiers. AFPS PhotoSalehAl Shehri was Saudi Arabia's top scorer in the Asian qualifiers for Qatar 2022. However, the striker's path to the World Cup, where his team will debut against Argentina and then face Poland and Mexico, was not all roses.

The Al-Hilal player ruptured his Achilles tendon on April 8 and, after undergoing surgery and recovery, he will be just barely fit for the opener against Lionel Messi and Co. in Doha on April 22.

In any case, he already showed good signs at the end of October, when he scored in the friendly matches against North Macedonia and Albania.

12.11.2022 22:31

22:31

Mexico continues with its preparation The Mexican national team closed another day of training and prepares for its debut in Qatar against Poland

.Gerardo Martino's team will be part of Group C along with Argentina and Saudi Arabia.

12.11.2022 21:54

21:

54 Despite thehistorical rivalry, Argentina is one of Brazilians' favorites According to a survey of 1,800 people conducted by UOL, 30% of Brazilian fans who do not care about Brazil's possible hexacampeonato, will cheer for the Argentine national team

.The team of Lionel Messi and company leads by far the preference among foreign teams. Cristiano Ronaldo's Portugal comes in second, with 24%, the report says.

12.11.2022 21:31

21:31

The Indomitable Lions want to prove they are still relevant History may be the best calling card for Cameroon, but it is also too heavy a backpack. With a team lacking star players and a coach who took over just over seven months ago, the African team with the most appearances at World Cups will try to break a five-game streak in Qatar in which they have failed to get out of the group stage. It will not be an easy mission, since, a priori, they will be the stone guest in Group G, which will also include Brazil, Switzerland and Serbia. Read more.

12.11.2022 20:24

20:24

Brazil, the usual candidate Neymar is the flag of Brazil, which has not lifted the trophy since 2002 - Photo AFPBrazilis always a candidate at World Cups, regardless of how it arrives at the event. This time, on top of that, they arrive on top form, with players who have starred in the best teams in Europe and with a coach who knows how to manage the egos of a locker room full of stars, none of them as bright and special as Neymar, the star who is looking for the ultimate crown. Read more.

12.11.2022 19:24

19:24

"Ecuador will go out to eat the liver of any opponent" Alfaro gives indications during the friendly against Iraq - Photo EFEEcuadorwill go out to "eat the liver of any opponent" in the World Cup-2022, said Saturday coach Gustavo Alfaro, who was concerned about an injury suffered by Byron Castillo during the friendly played in Spain against Iraq that ended in a goalless draw

.When the ball starts rolling in that stadium (in Qatar), Ecuador will go out to eat the liver of any opponent they have in front of them," said the Argentine tactician at the press conference after the friendly against the Iraqi team.

12.11.2022 19:11

19:11

Brazil's goals in World Cups: "Pure art" This is how the official World Cup account defined on social networks some of Brazil's best goals throughout the history of World Cups

.The video features goals by Ronaldinho, Rivaldo, Ronaldo, Pelé and Socrates, among others.

12.11.2022 18:30

18:

30The Dream Team of the absentees in Qatar 2022 With the vast majority of the rosters confirmed, the selected players who failed to qualify and the large number of injured, a sketch of what would be a 33rd participant in the World Cup, made up of players who will not be in Qatar 2022

.The goalkeeper could be David De Gea; Sergio Ramos, Mats Hummels and Milan Skriniar would be the defenders.

In midfield, Gio Lo Celso, Paul Pogba, N'Golo Kanté and Thiago Alcántara and, in attack, Mo Salah, Roberto Firmino and Erling Haaland.

Diojo Jota, Reece James, Marco Verrati and Gabriel Barbosa could be among the substitutes alongside goalkeeper Donnaruma.

12.11.2022 17:52

17:52

In pure street art, Qatar unveiled its roster The Qatar national team unveiled its 26 World Cup players with a video in which the players are presented with graffiti in the

streets.The hosts will share Group A with Ecuador, opponents in the opening match, Senegal and the Netherlands.

12.11.2022 17:35

17:35

Lucas Hernandez: "Now we go for the World Cup" The Bayern Munich defender and the France national team expressed his joy on social networks for having closed the year with a victory of his team and launched a slogan: "Now we go for the World Cup"

. The Frenchman was part of the squad that won the World Cup in Russia 2018 and will try to retain the title in Qatar 2022.

12.11.2022 17:30

17:

30Timothy Weah: "It is an immense pride to be called up for the US national team " "It is a dream as a child to play a World Cup". "American culture is all about work, we are hard workers," said the son of the current president of Liberia, naturalized American.

12.11.2022 17:26

17:

26 Suarez, Godin and Valverde joined the concentration of Uruguay So did Rochet, Araujo and later De La Cruz, among others

.Uruguay will share a group with Portugal, Korea and Ghana.

12.11.2022 17:15

17:15

Ecuador's lackluster draw against Iraq It was 0-0 against an opponent that did not qualify for the World Cup - Photo EFEEcuadorcould not get past a goalless draw against Iraq

inthe friendly played this Saturday at the Cívitas Metropolitano and thus evidenced its lack of goal, even with Gonzalo Plata missing a penalty at the last moment

.Gustavo Alfaro 's team will open the World Cup against the locals on November 20.

Byron Castillo who left the field due to injury after 36 minutes of the match.

12.11.2022 16:25

16:25

For Pelé, Brazil will be champion Pelé. EFE/ Sebastiao MoreiraEdsonArantes do Nascimento, better known as Pelé, assured that the Brazilian National Team will win the Qatar 2022 World Cup. "I can't wait to see our National Team take the field," commented ' O Rei.

On his Instagram account, the third best player in history commented. "You may even think I'm overconfident, but I feel we will see Brazil win again," he said.

12.11.2022 15:28

15:28

All bad for Byron Castillo: injured and away from the World CupByronCastillo in a match with Chile. Neither will be in Qatar (REUTERS/Marcelo Hernandez) Ecuadorian footballer Byron Castillo, a big protagonist of his national team in recent months due to both Chile and Peru suing his irregular lineup, considering he was born in Colombia, left the field in the 35th minute of the match between Ecuador and Iraq at the Cívitas Metropolitano de

Madrid.

On Saturday, the right-back received a hard tackle with both legs from Iraq's Alai Hussain as Byron was rushing to the byline. After being treated for several minutes by doctors as his left foot got caught in the action, he had to retire to the locker room. His place was taken by Robert Arboleda.

Byron Castillo, according to Ecuador's ambassador in Qatar, will not be in the final list of coach Gustavo Alfaro for the World Cup, which will be announced on Monday, November 14, a day before traveling to Doha.

"Unfortunately Byron Castillo is not coming. It would be the finishing touch that Byron comes and scores a goal, but unfortunately, the news we have is that he is not coming", said Pascual Del Cioppo in an interview to the television program "Hechos de Impacto".

12.11.2022 14:45

14

:45Adriana SantagatiA

coffee in Qatar: the barista who jumped from Villa 31 to the World CupEmmanuelPortillo, barista in Qatar.Emmanuel Portillo was an airplane mechanic and worked in the only specialty coffee shop in Barrio Mugica. And he dreams of serving a latte to Messi. Read more12

.11.2022 14:15

14:15

Brazil, the only team to play in every World Cup Dani Alves returns to the national team (AP Photo/Juan Karita, File)From 1930 in Uruguay to this 2022 in Qatar, Brazil has never missed a World Cup and has been champion in 1958, 1962, 1970, 1994 and 2002. In the first three championships, Pelé was a decisive player, marked an era and is the only one to have won three World Cups as a player. Read more12

.11.2022 13:34

13:

34Juan Nicolas BranzSwitzerland

, between the complexity of its group and the ambitious goal of breaking a historic barrierSwitzerlandshares a group with Brazil, Cameroon and Serbia (EFE/EPA/LAURENT GILLIERON)They toppled the world champions at the European Championship and promise to go far at the World Cup, but their first opponents force it to go cautiously

.12.11.2022 13:10

13:10

Alert in Spain: Gerard Deulofeu lefthurtUdinese's Spanish striker Gerard Deulofeu had to leave the pitch at the Diego Armando Maradona after suffering a left knee injury, before the first half hour, in the match against Napoli

.The attacker left the pitch helped by his team's doctors, with tears in his eyes and with a visible limp. He had recently undergone surgery for torn ligaments in his right knee.

12.11.2022 12:49

12:49

Netherlands national team to meet migrant workers during World Cup Louis van Gaal, Netherlands coach (AP Photo/Patrick Post)Netherlands national team players will meet with a group of migrant workers in Qatar after holding a training session there ahead of their first match. The meeting is part of an initiative by the Dutch soccer federation KNVB to promote human rights during the tournament.

"First of all, we are going to Qatar to be world champions, but we certainly look beyond soccer,'' coach Louis van Gaal said in a statement. "We consider it important to meet with those involved. Therefore, we invited them to our training to leave them with a good memory as well.''

"The fact that we want to do this says something about the ideas of the KNVB and what is important,'' Van Gaal said. The announcement came days after FIFA urged teams to focus on soccer during the World Cup, despite concerns about attitudes in the country toward LGBTQ fans and migrant workers.

12.11.2022 11:49

11:49

Premier League: Lowly Brentford took advantage of a City side with their heads in QatarBrentfordpulled off the shock in Manchester (EFE/EPA/Tim Keeton)With 10 of their 11 starters called up by their national teams for Qatar, Manchester City lost 2-1 at home to lowly Brentford, who took advantage of an opponent that fell prey to 'pre-World Cup panic' according to the international press

.Julian Alvarez, the only one of the participants to play for Argentina, only came on after 87 minutes.

12.11.2022 11:12

11:

12Spaniard Laporte's blow in Manchester City matchLaporte, on the ground at the Etihad Stadium (REUTERS/Craig Brough)ymeric Laporte, the French Hispanic center-back called up by Luis Enrique to the Spain squad for the World Cup in Qatar, has suffered a gash to his forehead and a heavy blow to his head during his Manchester City match against Brentford at the Ettihad Stadium

.Laporte suffered the cut when he attempted to head a ball into the Brentford box and collided with Ben Mee's elbow in the 49th minute of the match. He was treated on the pitch for six minutes and had stitches applied to the cut and a heavy bandage with which he returned to the pitch12

.11.2022 09:34

09:34

With the presence of Son, South Korea gave his list forQatarDoubts raised by the fractures that Son Heung-min recently suffered in his eye socket were dispelled today after South Korea's coach, Portuguese Paulo Bento, confirmed that the English Tottenham attacker will captain the 26 players who will go to the World Cup, where also will be the Mallorcan player Lee Kang-in

.Son underwent surgery last November 4, just 20 days before the South Korean debut against Uruguay, and although he assured that he would be recovered by then and would even wear a mask to play, South Korean fans have until today held their breath over the possible absence from the World Cup of their captain and last season's top scorer in the Premier League.

12.11.2022 08:49

08:49

World Cup stars without World Cup: all the players who are in the album but were not called up to Qatar 2022Pogba, Lo Celso and Werner, three names that were sung for Qatar 2022 but will not be at the World Cup.A case-by-case review of the players who were included in the traditional Panini figurine album and will end up missing the World Cup. Read more.

12.11.2022 08:35

08:35

Byron Castillo would be left out of the World Cup due to the controversy of his nationalityByronCastillo will not be in the Qatar 2022 World Cup with the Ecuadorian national team, as anticipated this Friday by the Ecuadorian ambassador to Qatar, Pascual Del Cioppo, who regretted this decision after the controversy over the origin of the player and the sanction imposed by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS)

."Unfortunately Byron Castillo is not coming. It would be the finishing touch that Byron comes and scores a goal, but unfortunately, the news we have is that he is not coming", said Del Cioppo in an interview to the television program "Hechos de Impacto".

According to the diplomat, "it is a decision that the Federation has taken, most likely to avoid future problems" with the Mexican Leon player, protagonist of a battle in the offices between Ecuador, Chile and Peru over the authenticity of the documents with which he was registered as Ecuadorian.

12.11.2022 03:40

03:40

"Let's imagine cool things": Chicharito Hernandez's phrase that reminded FIFA"Why can't we be Greece in the European Championship? Why can't we be Leicester in the Premier League? Let's imagine cool things," said Chicharito Hernández in the run-up to the Russia 2018 World Cup, where Mexico's national team finally advanced to the round of 16, where it lost to Brazil 2-0.

12.11.2022 02:20

02:

20Europe surpasses South America in the history of World Cup titlesUntilKorea-Japan 2002, Europe and South America were equal on 9 World Cup titles, however, since 2006, the old continent took a clear advantage and accumulated 13 from 1930 to 2018.For South America, Brazil contributes five, Argentina two, as well as Uruguay. The last time the World Cup came to this part of the planet was precisely in the first World Cup of the 21st Century.For the Europeans, Italy and Germany have four titles, while France has two and Spain and England one.The teams that were finalists but never managed to be crowned are all from Europe: the Netherlands, the former Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Croatia and Sweden.

12.11.2022 00:21

00

:21FIFA updated its app in World Cup modeFIFAupdated its app in World Cup mode.The FIFA app for cell phones was updated with a World Cup aesthetics. In addition, general information about the teams that will play in Qatar 2022, the matches, the stadiums, the fixture and more.

11.11.2022 21:51

21:

51Ecuador will wait until the last minute to present the list The official account of the Ecuador national team confirmed that Gustavo Alfaro will announce the 26 names that will go to Qatar next Monday, the deadline imposed by FIFA

.With a photo of the Argentine coach, the publication says: "The only one to know the 26 called up" and adds that the list will be made public next Monday, six days before the debut against the local team.

11.11.2022 21:06

21:

06Bruno Fernandes, one of the 26 "privileged" to represent Portugal The talented midfielder of Manchester United and the Portugal national team said he was a "privileged" to be on the list to play the World Cup

."I am one of the 26 privileged to represent our country in the biggest competition in the world and I couldn't be prouder. All together for a single goal," the former Sporting Lisbon player wrote on his Twitter account.

11.11.2022 20:16

20:16

"How could one not want that thing?" Of course, every team in the world wants to win the World Cup, that's why the question on the official World Cup account will never get an answer like "not me".

For the trophy, more than 200 national teams compete in tough qualifying rounds and the finals every four years.

Curiously, however, on Twitter, and endearingly, of course, FIFA refers to the World Cup as a "thing".

11.11.2022 20:03

20:03

Who are and who can join the "5 World Cup Club" Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi, two of the stars who will be at the Qatar 2022 World Cup.Until Qatar 2022 begins, four footballers make up the "5 World Cup Club". This is the record for the most appearances at soccer's top event to date.

Lotthar Matthaus (Germany), Antonio Carvajal (Mexico), Rafael Márquez (Mexico) and Gianluigi Buffon (Italy).

In the 22nd edition of the world championship, there are four players who would join the select group, including none other than Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo.

The others are Guillermo Ochoa and Andrés Guardado (Mexico). Sergio Ramos (Spain) was to be the other, but was not called up by Luis Enrique.

11.11.2022 19:24

19:24

Qatar World Cup will inject Brazil's bars with millions in revenue The Qatar World Cup, which begins on November 20 and has Brazil as one of the favorites, will leave the bars and restaurants of the South American giant a revenue of about 865 million reais ($162 million), according to a study released Friday

.The amount represents an increase of 8.3% compared to the revenue left to this segment by the World Cup in Russia, played in 2018, according to the National Confederation of Commerce of Goods, Services and Tourism (CNC).

11.11.2022 18:59

18:59

World Cup Qatar 2022: "They called us monkeys" Dennis is 38 years old. In 2020, he decided to go to work in Qatar in the hope of finding a better salary than in Kenya. A recruitment agency promised him a contract as a security agent at a well-known hotel in Doha. But as soon as he arrived in Qatar, he was disappointed. Read more.

11.11.2022 18:46

18:46

Laporta, "pleased and happy" that seven Barca players are going with Spain Joan Laporta, president of Barcelona, said Friday he was "pleased and happy" that seven players of his team are part of the Spanish team that will compete from November 20 to December 18 at the World Cup in Qatar

.Laporta, who presided over the 50th anniversary events of the Peña Barça de Andújar (Jaén), expressed being "very happy" for the call of Jordi Alba, Eric García, Sergi Busquets, Pedri, Gavi, Ferrán Torres and Ansu Fati and then at the headquarters of the City Council, where he signed in the book of honor, offered a speech with an institutional feeling.

11.11.2022 18:43

18:

43U.S. team says "thank you" to Veterans "This Veterans Day, we want to pay our respects and say "Thank You" to all who have served in our armed forces," the release begins

."We honor the memory and service of the World War II veteran," continues the text that accompanies a video of Pete DuPre, supporter and former combatant, performing the song "God Bless America" with his harmonica.

11.11.2022 18:35

18:35

The match data that FIFA will provide at the World Cup FIFA announced that it will "present optimized soccer data at the Qatar 2022™ World Cupto deeply understand soccer and enjoy it to the fullest."

It is, explains Arsène Wenger, FIFA's Head of World Football Development, a technology to "provide state-of-the-art statistics and data".

11.11.2022 18:28

18:

28Germany revealed the numbers of its squad Germany

unveiled which number each of the 26 called-up players will wear

for the World

Cup.The historic Thomas Müller keeps his already classic 13, while Mario Götze, scorer of the title goal against Argentina in 2014, will change the 19 for 11.

11.11.2022 17:47

17:

47Kylian Mbappé thought about resigning from the French national team due to episodes of racism Mbappé spoke about racism - AFP PhotoTheParis Saint-Germain striker and star, Kylian Mbappé, revealed today that the possibility

ofresigning from the French national soccer team

forhaving suffered episodes

ofracism crossed his mind

."I can't play when people call me an ape.

Ithought about not playing for the French national team again," Mbappé said in an interview with U.S. magazine Sports Illustrated.

"Then I took some time to reflect with all the people who play with me and they convinced me to continue. I felt I wasn't giving a good message if I gave up when things didn't go my way and I think that can be a good example for many people," said the teammate of Rosarino star Lionel Messi at PSG.

11.11.2022 17:45

17:45

"There we go" Luis Suarez, with a brief message on social networks, showed how Uruguay embarked on its journey to

the World Cup in Qatar "with the illusion of a country and the pride of being World Cup players"

.The official World Cup account, attentive to what teams and players publish, already gave him a warm welcome: "See you in Qatar".

11.11.2022 17:35

17:35

Saudi Arabia announced its World Cup squad Saudi Arabia, Argentina's first rival in the World Cup, announced the names of the 26 players who will make up the squad for Qatar 2022.

The duel between the Asians and Lionel Scaloni's team will be on November 22 at 7 am at the Lusail stadium

.11.11.2022 16:33

16:

33Jordi Alba, "with a great motivation" to play his third World Jordi Alba, Barcelona 's front marker and the Spanish national team, expressed his joy at having been called up by Luis Enrique to play

theWorld Cup in Qatar 2022.

It will be the third for the European champion in 2012 and, as he wrote on Twitter, he arrives "with the illusion of always and with a great motivation"

.11.11.2022 15:45

15:

45Diego Godin: "Uruguay is always there to win "Photo:EFEUruguay captain Diego Godin said today before traveling with eight of his teammates to Doha - where the national team will work until November 19 - that La Celeste "is always there to win"

."Uruguay has to think about winning every tournament it goes to, because the history of this shirt marks it," he remarked during a brief press conference held at Carrasco International Airport.

However, he clarified that being "really objective" the first thing he must think about is winning the first match of the group stage to try to overcome it.

"We have a very even group, a tough and competitive group. The first match, as in any short tournament, is decisive," the captain pointed out.

11.11.2022 15:04

15:

04United States, the first team to land in QatarTheUnited States team arrived in Doha today, Friday, and became the first to land in Qatar

.In total, there were nine players in the delegation accompanying coach Gregg Berhalter: Sean Johnson, Walker Zimmerman,

DeAndre Yedlin, Aaron Long, Shaq Moore, Kellyn Acosta, Cristian Roldan, Jesus Ferreira and Jordan Morris.

The rest of the squad will land in Qatar over the next few days after the European leagues finish.

11.11.2022 14:15

14:15

Qatar announced the roster with a video"The announcement we've been waiting for. Introducing... Felix Sanchez's Qatar national team squad for the 2022 World Cup. These are our heroes. And now, it's our time," they posted from the official Twitter account of the team that will be local at the World Cup.

11.11.2022 13:30

13:30

"I think we are four candidates for the title "Alejandro Domínguez. Photo: EFE The president of the South American Football Confederation, Alejandro Dominguez, said today that the four South American teams that will participate in the World Cup are candidates to lift the World Cup

."I think we are four candidates for the title," said the head of Conmebol in a talk with EFE , after participating in the inauguration of an anti-doping seminar held at the headquarters in Luque, Paraguay.

The teams of Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Ecuador will represent South America in the next World Cup.

11.11.2022 12:46

12:

46Ecuador prepares for the friendly against IraqTheEcuador national soccer team today finalized details for tomorrow's match against Iraq, to be played at the Cívitas Metropolitano in Madrid, in a training session in which Gustavo Alfaro could already count on Gonzalo Plata, Wellington Ramírez, Marco Angulo and Jhoanner Chávez Quintero

. Thus, the Argentine coach formed the practice with 21 players, waiting for the most outstanding players in European soccer such as Pervis Estupián, Pierro Hincapié and Moisés Caicedo.

11.11.2022 12:10

12:10

Serbia's roster, with only 4 strikersPhoto: @FSSrbijeDusanTadic (Ajax), Aleksandar Mitrovic (Fulham), Luka Jovic (Fiorentina) and Dusan Vlahovic (Juventus) will be the four strikers in Serbia's squad to dispute the World Cup, as arranged today by coach Dragan Stojkovic.Tadic, captain and soccer leader with the emblematic number 10 on his back, nominated for the 2019 Ballon d'Or, has 18 goals in 90 international appearances and is the second highest scorer of the Balkan team behind Mitrovic (50), hero of the qualification against Portugal on the last day of the UEFA qualifiers.?

Goalkeepers: Vanja Milinkovic Savic (Torino), Marko Dmitrovic (Sevilla) and Predrag Rajkovic (Mallorca).

Defenders: Stefan Mitrovic (Getafe), Nikola Milenkovic (Fiorentina), Milos Veljkovic (Werder Bremen), Strahinja Pavlovic (Salzburg), Strahinja Erakovic (Red Star), Srdan Babic (Almeria) and Filip Mladenovi? (Legia).

Midfielders: Uros Racic (Braga), Ivan Ilic (Verona), Sasa Lukic (Torino), Nemanja Maksimovic (Getafe), Nemanja Gudelj (Sevilla), Darko Lazovic (Verona), Nemanja Radonjic (Torino), Andrija Zivkovic (PAO?), Filip ?ostic (Juventus), Sergej Milinkovic Savic (Lazio), Filip Duricic (Sassuolo), Marko Grujic (Porto).

Forwards: Dusan Tadic (Ajax), Aleksandar Mitrovic (Fulham), Luka Jovic (Fiorentina) and Dusan Vlahovic (Juventus).

11.11.2022 11:38

11

:38Uruguay's arrival in Abu Dhabi11.11.2022 11:01

11

:

01 11:01Galtier clarified that no PSG player asked him not to play"No player came to see me to tell me that he did not want to play or that he feared this last match before the World Cup," launched today PSG coach Christophe Galtier at the press conference ahead of this Sunday's match against Auxerre

.It will be the last match before the World Cup and there had been much speculation about the presences of World Cup players such as Lionel Messi, Neymar, Mbappé and company.

"I have everyone available, except Fabian Ruiz. And we'll see about Keylor Navas," he added. The Spanish midfielder is recovering from a left adductor injury, while the Costa Rica goalkeeper is suffering from back pain.

11.11.2022 10:50

10:50

South Korea beat Iceland in last test before Uruguay openerSouth Korea beatIceland 1-0 today in a match that was without their most recognizable players and was the last test for the Asians before the opener against Uruguay at Qatar 2022 in less than two weeks

.The South Koreans were only able to field players from their league or Asian tournaments on Friday, whose seasons have just ended, so their usual attacking trident of captain Son Heung-min (Tottenham), winger Hwang Hee-chan of Wolverhampton and striker Hwang Ui-jo (Olympiakos), or the man leading the backline, Napoli center back Kim Min-jae, was missing.

The only goal of the match was converted by striker Song Min-kyu with a header after 33 minutes.

11.11.2022 10:02

10:

02Fans already put color to the World Cup in Qatar in the streets of DohaWith9 days to the start of the World Cup are many fans who walk around Doha with shirts and painted in the colors of the countries that will participate in the tournament

.Most of them are Qataris who identify themselves with the different national teams, mainly with France, Portugal, England and Argentina.

Qatari fans chanting for Portugal. Photo: Reuters.Fans chanting for Germany. Photo: Reuters.An English fan in Doha. Photo: Reuters.11.11.2022 09:44

09:

44Sadio Mané made Senegal's squad despite fibula injuryBayernMunich's Senegalese striker Sadio Mané. Photo: Reuters.Sadio Mané, Africa's best player and runner-up in the 2022 Ballon d'Or, is in Senegal's squad for the Qatar 2022 World Cup, announced Friday in the capital Dakar by coach Aliou Cissé, despite his recent injury that compromises his chances of playing.

The participation of the 'Lions of Teranga' star striker had been in doubt since he was withdrawn with a fibula problem in the 21st minute of the German Bundesliga match with Bayern Munich against Werder Bremen (6-1) on Tuesday. Read more here.

11.11.2022 09:24

09:24 09:24

Louis van Gaal unveiled the Netherlands World Cup squadThecoach confirmed Friday the 26 chosen to represent the Netherlands at the World Cup in Qatar and included young star Xavi Simons, who trained at Barcelona, came through PSG and now stars for PSV

. 11.11.2022 08:33

08:33

Luis Enrique announced Spain's list for the World Cup and did not call Sergio RamosThecoach of the Iberian national team announced on Friday the list of those called up for the World Cup and kept PSG defender Sergio Ramos and Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea out of the list

.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221113eibd008i2


CE Noticias Financieras English
Denmark, critical of Qatar, makes World Cup debut against Tunisia
457 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
DOHA (AP) - The match between Denmark and Tunisia on Wednesday at the World Cup will pit one of the countries most critical of the tournament hosted by Qatar against one of the four Arab teams competing.

The fixture at Education City Stadium will also mark Christian Eriksen's return to a major tournament after suffering a cardiac arrest at last year's European Championship.

Denmark have ambitious goals after reaching the semifinals at the European Championship, followed by a near-perfect knockout campaign, while Tunisia are looking to progress beyond the group stage for the first time in their sixth World Cup appearance.

Since arriving in Qatar, Denmark has been training in a black kit in remembrance of the migrant workers who died during the construction of infrastructure for the tournament.

Denmark had planned to wear the "One Love" campaign's anti-discrimination armband alongside other European teams, but the teams withdrew the campaign after FIFA threatened to sanction its use with yellow cards for captains.

"Imagine jumping on the pitch with a clear yellow card to start with. That's not possible and we have to make sure it's not up to the players to make that decision," said Denmark coach Kasper Hjulmand.

Tunisian coach Jalal Kadri addressed the controversy by saying that "we are in an Arab country with an Islamic tradition, we have to respect the culture of other people."

Eriksen's return is one of the most poignant stories of the tournament, less than 18 months after doctors had to use a defibrillator to revive him as a horrified nation - and much of the soccer world - watched his lifeless body lying on the pitch at Copenhagen's Parken stadium.

It was the latest stage in his remarkable return to elite soccer, first to the Premier League with Londoners Brentford and Manchester United, which proved he remains among the world's best creative midfielders. He made his international comeback in March, scoring two minutes after coming on as a substitute in the 4-2 loss to the Netherlands.

"This is special," Eriksen said. "From the first interview I did, when I said in public that I wanted to play again, (competing in a World Cup) was my first goal.

Tunisia has only two wins at a World Cup - against Mexico in 1978 and against Panama four years ago in Russia.

But with their fans traveling in droves for the first World Cup in the Middle East, Kadri has indicated he will step down if they do not advance to the round of 16. But that is a tall order in Group D, which includes reigning champions France and Australia.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221121eibl0079y


CE Noticias Financieras English
Denmark and Tunisia draw 0-0 in Qatar 2022 World Cup opener
489 字
2022 年 11 月 22 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The National Team of Denmark and the National Team of Tunisia tied 0-0 in their presentation at the Qatar 2022 World Cup, where the referee of the match was the Mexican César Arturo Ramos Palazuelos, who was not exempt from controversy, as he went to the VAR in the final minutes of the match for a possible penalty in favor of the Danes, but did not award it.

Denmark, one of the so-called "Black Horses" has very ambitious goals after reaching the semifinals at the European Championship, following a near-perfect qualifying campaign, while Tunisia is looking to advance beyond the group stage for the first time in its sixth World Cup appearance.

The appointment at the Education City Stadium was Christian Eriksen 's return to a major tournament following the cardiac arrest he suffered last year at last year's European Championship, which was won by Italy, who did not enter the Qatar 2022 World Cup.

Eriksen' s return is one of the most striking stories of the tournament, less than 18 months after doctors had to use a defibrillator to revive him as a horrified nation, and much of the soccer world, watched his lifeless body lying on the grass at Copenhagen's Parken Stadium.

It was the latest stage in his remarkable return to the game's elite, first in the Premier League with Londoners Brentford and Manchester United, which proved he was still among the world's best creative midfielders. In March he reappeared with the national team and scored two minutes after coming on as a substitute in the 4-2 loss to the Netherlands.

Mexican assistant Miguel Angel Hernandez disallowed Denmark's goal for a clear offside, one of the few shots on goal the European team had in the match.

Tunisia has only two wins in a World Cup, the first being against Mexico at the Argentina 1978 World Cup and against Panama four years ago at the Russia 2018 World Cup.

Denmark, critical of the Qatar 2022 World Cup The match between Denmark and Tunisia was the opener for the countries most critical of the Qatar 2022 World Cup and one of the four Arab teams competing.

Since its arrival in Qatar, Denmark has been training in a black kit in remembrance of the migrant workers who died during the construction of infrastructure for the tournament.

The Danish squad had planned to wear the "One Love" campaign's anti-discrimination armband alongside other European teams, but the teams withdrew the campaign after FIFA threatened to sanction its use with yellow cards for captains.

"Imagine jumping on the pitch with a clear yellow card to start with. That's not possible and we have to make sure it's not up to the players to make that decision," said Denmark coach Kasper Hjulmand.

aar

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221122eibm009h6


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks Set for Mild Advance, Helped by Rising Oil Prices
1904 字
2022 年 11 月 23 日 05:01 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Flash PMIs for Eurozone, U.K. Germany, France; Germany Bundesbank monthly report; U.K. chancellor appears before the Treasury Committee; trading updates from Prosus, Naspers, United Utilities, Johnson Matthey, Evraz, Darktrace, Renishaw

Opening Call:

Shares could advance slightly in Europe on Wednesday. Stock benchmarks mixed in Asia; Treasury yields slipped, the dollar weakened; oil inched up and gold declined.

Equities:

European stocks could extend gains on Wednesday after advancing overnight, with rising oil prices helping investors shrug off U.K. economic concerns.

"The Organisation for Economic Co-operation & Development warning that the UK faces years of stagnant growth has done little to dampen sentiment for the FTSE 100, with energy stocks leading the push higher," IG said. "While the Covid pandemic has largely masked the effects of Brexit, the outlook remains bleak over [the UK's] ability to grow its way out of this crisis."

A raft of U.S. data is due Wednesday, including minutes of the Fed's November policy meeting, with many traders away from their desks ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday.

The implications of thin trading are important to remember from here out this week, said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at B. Riley Wealth Management.

It's been a "predominantly constructive market" so far, he said.

But it's "a week that will have ultra light volume." Those conditions "tend to accentuate the moves in either direction," he said.

Forex:

The dollar weakened in Asia ahead of the FOMC meeting's minutes due later today.

These minutes are a potential key mover for market sentiment, IG said.

Any deepening signs of worries about the U.S. economy from FOMC members will likely be looked upon as a basis for moderating rate increases, which might further support risk sentiment for now, IG added.

"We're back to a risk-on, risk-off paradigm," Silicon Valley Bank said.

Markets are looking at the narrowing of policy-rate spreads and the advantage the U.S. has had is diminishing, it said.

"The terminal rate will be crucial in determining if there's a leg higher in the dollar, especially because we know other central banks have decelerated and the Fed has not," it said.

Meanwhile, the euro could recover further as the eurozone looks likely to avoid a severe energy crisis this winter, but levels above $1.20 look unlikely for years to come, Kit Juckes, chief global FX strategist at Societe Generale said.

"I'm not sure we'll get through $1.20 again for years and years and years unless we can find a solution to the energy problem," he said. The Ukraine war and energy risks are the euro's Achilles heel, Juckes said.

Bonds:

Bond yields fell, as additional Covid-19 lockdowns in China seemed to increase the chances of a global economic slowdown.

Market sentiment was described by analysts as fragile, given the uncertainty over whether China would make a U-turn on its reopening plans.

On the flip side, however, higher Fed rates also mean investors finally can earn a return by serving as creditors again, with bonds now kicking off some of the highest yields since the wake of the 2007-2008 global financial crisis.

"One way to think about it is that we've been in a pitch black, dark room for years, and now someone switched the light back on," said Steve Foresti, chief investment officer of global asset allocation and research at Wilshire, about the move away from ultralow rates and negative bond yields.

"It's disorientating, but the path forward does become clearer. Investors are right in the middle of that adjustment," he said. "There also are some returns priced in now that fixed-income investors can work with."

Read: Bond-market recession gauge hits 41-year milestone as global growth fears mount [http:// https://newsplus.wsj.com/article/realtime/MWCO20221122000410[https://newsplus.wsj.com/article/realtime/MWCO20221122000410]]

Energy:

Oil nudged higher in Asia, boosted by data released overnight by the American Petroleum Institute that showed a decline in U.S. commercial inventories of crude oil, analysts said.

The API data showed that U.S. crude oil inventories fell by 4.8 million barrels, which was more than the roughly 2.6-million-barrels draw that the market was expecting, ING said.

"Traders are trying to balance the 2-million-barrels-per-day output cuts announced in October, an imminent EU embargo on Russian oil shipments, and G-7 plans to set a price cap on Russian oil versus their 'where there is smoke, there is fire' [mentality] after reports that OPEC was considering increasing output," SPI Asset Management said.

"After another quarter in which supply and demand are likely to be more or less equal, the oil market risks being undersupplied from the second quarter of 2023 -- a deficit that could even turn out to be sizable in the second half of 2023," Commerzbank said.

"As global central banks continue to raise interest rates, the slowing global economy -- and possibility of recession -- has also been a consistent concern that [oil] demand will substantially wane," LPL Financial said.

Metals:

Gold prices declined in Asia despite the dollar's mild weakness.

The precious metal has received a slight boost from a weaker dollar, but this seems to be fading, Oanda said.

Gold could have a hard time rallying as the dollar appears poised to find some support, Oanda added, noting that the Fed is expected to adhere to its hawkish stance for a while.

---

Copper edged lower on mixed demand signals.

The rising number of Covid cases and further lockdowns in China could place pressure on demand, ANZ analysts said.

Meanwhile, the call from the People's Bank of China to stabilize lending to real-estate developers could help to boost the number of construction projects and may mean a brighter outlook for the base metal, they said.

---

Chinese iron ore futures fell early Wednesday, extending declines this week, as a Covid-19 resurgence in the country weighed on sentiment.

Ferrous metals have weakened amid intensifying virus outbreaks, while poor October economic data show actual demand is under pressure, Citic Futures said.

But expectations of iron ore demand are propped up by government policy to support the property industry, it added.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Looming Oil-Supply Shock Launches Debate in OPEC

The specter of an oil-supply shock this winter has created a dilemma for OPEC and its wider circle of crude producers about whether to reverse course on the production cuts it set last month.

Beginning in early December, the oil market will face a series of looming problems that some members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries see as a potential opportunity to pump more oil and others view as a reason to stay the course with their production cuts.

   
 
 
Western Allies Aim to Agree on Russian Oil Price Cap Wednesday

The U.S. and its allies are seeking to agree as soon as Wednesday on a level for a price cap on Russian oil, with officials discussing setting it at around $60 a barrel as the group rushes to complete the plan, according to people familiar with the talks.

The price cap, which the people said could still be set as high as $70, is at the center of the West's efforts to sanction Russia for its invasion of Ukraine. The Group of Seven advanced democracies and Australia plan to begin enforcing the price cap on Dec. 5 after struggling to craft its details this fall.

   
 
 
EU Unveils Proposal to Cap Natural-Gas Prices

BRUSSELS-The European Union set out the details of a long-debated proposal to cap natural-gas prices on the bloc's main trading hub, part of an effort to shield consumers from the effects of higher energy costs linked to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

The European Commission, the bloc's executive arm, said Tuesday that its proposal was designed to deal with exceptional circumstances where the benchmark price for natural gas in Europe exceeds 275 euros, equivalent to about $282, per megawatt hour for two weeks. Prices would also need to be above reference levels by a set margin for 10 consecutive days within those two weeks.

   
 
 
Rio Tinto Plans Larger Pilot Plant for Biomass-Fueled Iron-Making

Rio Tinto PLC said it plans to develop a larger-scale pilot plant for low-carbon iron-making after a small facility in Germany proved a process to use raw biomass instead of metallurgical coal was effective.

Rio Tinto, the world's largest iron-ore miner, has been testing the process in Germany over the past 18 months with Finland-based sustainable technology company Metso Outotec and the University of Nottingham.

   
 
 
Ukraine Strikes at Sevastopol and Pushes to Reclaim Key Black Sea Peninsula

Ukraine's military stepped up efforts to reclaim parts of the country's south, attempting to strike Sevastopol on Tuesday and saying it was launching an operation to push Russian forces from a strategic peninsula on the Black Sea coast.

The operations come as Kyiv looks to open up its besieged ports and build on significant gains in the region.

   
 
 
Goldman Sachs to Pay $4 Million to Settle Investigation Over ESG Funds

WASHINGTON-Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s asset-management arm agreed Tuesday to pay $4 million to settle a regulatory investigation into how it managed mutual funds and other products that pick stocks based on environmental, social and governance criteria.

The Securities and Exchange Commission said Goldman marketed the ESG funds and a similar investment strategy without always following a consistent framework spelled out in its compliance plans. That meant Goldman violated an SEC compliance rule that requires investment advisers to implement plans designed to prevent potential regulatory violations. Goldman neither admitted nor denied the SEC's allegations.

   
 
 
HP Plans Layoffs With PC Demand Slump Stretching Into Next Year

HP Inc. said it would slash up to nearly 10% of its workforce with a sharp slump in demand for personal computers expected to stretch into next year.

23 Nov 2022 00:01 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks Set for Mild -2-

The computer and printer maker, which currently has around 61,000 employees, on Tuesday said it would part with 4,000 to 6,000 employees as part of a transformation plan that aims to achieve $1.4 billion in annualized cost savings. The company had a payroll of about 51,000 people a year ago.

   
 
 
Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Wednesday

07:00/NOR: Oct Credit Indicator C2

07:00/DEN: 3Q Labour force survey

08:15/FRA: Nov France Flash PMI

08:30/GER: Nov Germany Flash PMI

09:00/EU: Nov Eurozone Flash PMI

09:00/POL: Oct Retail Sales

09:30/UK: Aug Card Spending statistics

09:30/UK: Nov Flash UK PMI

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions[https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 23, 2022 00:01 ET (05:01 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020221123eibn0001x


Football
France star Kylian Mbappe 'is set to receive a fine from FIFA' after forward TWICE refused to speak to the media post-match... despite receiving Player of the Match awards against Australia and Denmark
James Cohen For Mailonline
456 字
2022 年 11 月 29 日 17:25 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* The France forward, reportedly, will be fined for his actions at the World Cup

* Mbappe refused to speak to the media after France's opening two group games

* It's compulsory for the Player of the Match to speak to the media after a game

* Mbappe received the award for both games but still refused to meet the media

PSG star Kylian Mbappe is set to receive a fine from FIFA for his misconduct after France's opening two World Cup group stage games, according to reports.

The 23-year-old has been scintillating on the pitch for his nation in Qatar and has already got three goals to his name after notching against both Denmark and Australia.

He was awarded the Player of the Match award in both games - which, by FIFA rules, means his is required to speak to the media afterwards - but Mbappe refused.

According to ESPN[https://www.espn.com.br/futebol/copa-do-mundo/artigo/_/id/11292603/a-polemica-entre-franca-e-mbappe-na-copa-do-mundo-que-pode-render-multa-da-fifa-apos-dois-jogos], his actions have left football's governing body with little choice but to issue a fine to the 23-year-old forward for going against FIFA rules.

After scoring and assisting in France's 4-1 win over Australia in their opener, Mbappe was given the post-match award but declined speaking to the media.

Both the player and the French Football Federation were made aware that if the forward repeated his actions, there would be a sanction for it.

However, despite clear instructions, Mbappe again refused to meet the media after claiming the Player of the Match award against Denmark on Saturday.

The understanding is that Mbappe refused to speak to the media under the presumption that the majority of questions would be surrounding his PSG future.

Such questions could serve as a distraction for the France forward, who is looking to be fully focused and rectify his last performance in an international competition.

At Euro 2020, the 23-year-old missed a crucial penalty that sent France out of the competition to Switzerland, in a shock result for the reigning World Cup champions.

He's made a brilliant start to France's current campaign in Qatar however, having registered three goals and one assists in their opening two games.

He's managed to take his tally up to seven World Cup goals - having starred at the 2018 tournament in Russia - and is his nation's second highest goalscorer in the competition.

Mbappe will be looking to build on his impressive return when France take on Tunisia in their final group stage game on Wednesday afternoon.

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020221129eibt005pn


EMEA Morning Briefing: China Reopening Hopes May Boost Shares
2633 字
2022 年 12 月 5 日 05:07 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Eurozone retail trade, meeting of eurozone finance ministers; services PMI data for eurozone, Germany, UK, France, Italy; UK monthly car registration figures, official reserves; trading update from Ryanair

Opening Call:

Shares appear poised for slight gains at the start of the week after China took steps to ease its Covid restrictions. Stock benchmarks and commodities rose in Asia, while the dollar softened and Treasury yields gained.

Equities:

Stock futures point to a slightly higher open on Monday amid improved sentiment, after local authorities across China pared back some of their strictest Covid-19 control measures.

European shares closed mixed last Friday following an unexpectedly strong U.S. jobs report for November.

The resilience of the jobs data prompted investors to price out the prospect of an imminent sharp slowdown in the Federal Reserve's interest-rate rise cycle, CMC Markets said.

"Friday's stronger-than-expected jobs report gives the Federal Reserve more reasons to continue raising interest rates and maintain tighter monetary policy for longer, at least until the labor market begins to weaken, which is a signal that the market does not want to hear right now," said Robert Schein, chief investment officer at Blanke Schein Wealth Management.

But some market strategists see a silver lining.

"The report is a positive development for the economy and helps support the case that the Fed may be able to achieve a soft landing in the economy, an outcome that's contrary to predictions made by some of the nation's largest banks in recent months," said Peter Essele, head of portfolio management at Commonwealth Financial Network.

"The labor market remaining hot continues to justify what the Fed is doing," said Nicole Webb, financial advisor at Wealth Enhancement Group. "I don't think it changes course from the 50 basis-point expectation in December," she said, "but we've really started to question how high the terminal rate has to get to, to have the demand destruction that brings inflation down to 2%."

Forex:

The dollar weakened on a return of risk appetite amid the easing of Covid restrictions in China.

However, ANZ has one eye on next week's FOMC meeting, noting the Fed may lift its terminal rate projection above 5% even if it opts for a smaller 50bp rise in the fed-funds rate.

"If that occurs, the question we're pondering is: how will the USD fare?" said ANZ.

"We may be shaping up for an epic battle between the 'recessionists' and the 'rate-watchers', all of which portends USD volatility."

Bonds:

Treasury yields rose in Asia, after the policy-sensitive 2-year Treasury yield advanced Friday but finished the week lower. A hotter-than-expected U.S. jobs report for November prompted traders to push up the likelihood of a 5% or higher fed-funds rate by March.

"While the Fed may slow down its rate increases from the 0.75% per meeting pace to 0.50% per meeting pace, it may also place pressure on them to extend those rate increases further into 2023," said Jason Pride, chief investment officer of private wealth at Glenmede.

"Such a path to higher rates for longer should put a damper on both fixed income and equity markets."

Read: Robust U.S. jobs market adds to worry over how much higher interest rates need to go

Energy:

Crude oil futures rose early Monday after China loosened some of its Covid curbs.

However, traders could remain on edge after the European Union and Group of Seven nations imposed a price cap of $60/bbl on Russian oil, which is set to take effect this week, ANZ said.

European sanctions on Russian oil also kick in this week, while OPEC+ has made the decision to keep its output steady, which raises uncertainty on oil supply and demand in coming months, ANZ added.

Metals:

Gold prices rose in Asia, reversing a previous pullback after a "shockingly hot" nonfarm payroll report, said Oanda.

The unexpectedly strong jobs report spurred the dollar to rise, and traders began to raise expectations of future hikes from the Fed, added Oanda. The pullback in gold prices was unwarranted, as inflation is steadily declining, which should mean the Fed will slow the pace of its rate hikes.

-

Copper prices advanced, extending a recent rally amid rising hopes for the easing of pandemic curbs in China.

ANZ said many investors are betting on expectations of sharply higher copper demand from the world's second-largest economy.

But ANZ warned of "signs of weakness in the physical market," and "ample supply" that has pushed down prices for some copper contracts and port inventories.

-

Iron-ore prices should be buoyed by seasonal supply challenges over the next few months, Jefferies said following recent gains in the steelmaking commodity.

The benchmark price of iron ore is up by 35% since the start of November, underpinned by Beijing's plans to stabilize China's property market and ease some Covid restrictions.

"Seasonal supply constraints should also help over the next 2-3 months," Jefferies said, referring to the severe storms that can occur in Australia and Brazil around the turn of the year.

Meanwhile, Yongan Futures thinks the upbeat sentiment will remain strong for some time, as traders seek to position for an expected demand rebound into the spring of 2023.

But Yongan cautioned that investors should monitor the momentum for steel production, which has been under pressure due to weak profitability.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

OPEC+ Keeps Oil Curbs Despite Russia Price Cap

OPEC+ said Sunday it would lock in current production levels, a pause that suggests the word's leading oil producers are uncertain about the direction of crude prices with a price cap on Russia's petroleum exports set to take effect.

The decision on Sunday allows the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and a group of producers led by Russia-collectively known as OPEC+-to take more time to assess the market impact of an EU and Group of Seven price cap, which is intended to crimp Russia's revenue for the Ukraine war. It locks in a 2 million-barrels-a-day production cut decided in October.

   
 
 
Dow Shines as Higher Rates Squeeze Nasdaq's Tech Stocks

The Dow is beating the broader market to a degree not seen in nearly a century.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 5.3% this year, which isn't normally a cause for celebration. But that performance looks downright golden compared with the broad S&P 500, which is off 15%, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite, which has dropped 27%.

   
 
 
China Loosens Covid Restrictions as Public Anger Simmers

HONG KONG-Local authorities across China are paring back some of their strictest Covid-19 control measures, just days after public anger spilled over into rare protests against a zero-tolerance approach that has kept the country largely isolated for three years.

In recent days, officials in major cities-including Beijing and other areas where protests broke out a week ago-said they were lifting some curbs on residents' movements, such as by ending mandatory Covid testing for people who want to use public transport or enter parks and other public spaces.

   
 
 
Business-Software Companies Say Customers Are Pulling Back Amid Economic Concerns

Business-software companies say customers are being more cautious with their spending in response to a challenging economy, adding to the tech industry's list of concerns.

Customers for companies such as Salesforce Inc., Okta Inc. and CrowdStrike Holdings Inc. are taking longer to sign deals, and in some cases slowing their hiring plans as they try to protect their bottom lines, the software providers reported this past week. That trend has created a cloudy outlook for many in the once-booming business-software sector, which benefited from years of demand as customers looked to use the products to trim costs and maintain their businesses during the pandemic.

   
 
 
Economists Think They Can See Recession Coming-for a Change

If the economy shrinks next year, no one should be surprised. We're facing the most widely forecast recession in history-and investors don't seem to care.

Recession in Europe and the U.K. is already the average of economic predictions, while the U.S. average forecast for next year is growth of a miserly 0.2%, according to Consensus Economics, the third lowest since 1989.

   
 
 
Must Inflation Be Brought Down All the Way to 2%?

"Why must inflation be around 2%?" is a question that obsessed central bankers back when inflation was stubbornly below their favorite target. It makes more sense to ask it now.

This past week, a string of data has suggested that inflation is finally on a downward trend. The U.S. personal-consumption expenditures price index excluding food and energy-the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation-recorded its second-smallest monthly increase for the year, even as consumer spending jumped and job growth continued. Meanwhile, eurozone inflation receded to 10% in November, suggesting that October's 10.6% was the peak.

   
 
 
Why You Can't Find Wegovy, the Weight-Loss Drug

Novo Nordisk A/S flubbed the launch of its buzzy new weight-loss drug Wegovy, missing out on hundreds of millions of dollars in sales and squandering a head start before a rival could begin selling a competing product.

Wegovy is among a new class of drugs that health regulators have approved to cut the weight of people who are obese, a goal long sought by doctors and patients. Their weight-dropping potential became a viral sensation on social media. Elon Musk tweeted about Wegovy in October. And a related drug for diabetes, Ozempic, is a hot topic in Hollywood among celebrities seeking to stay thin, according to doctors.

   
 
 
Iran Disbands Morality Police, Considers Changing Hijab Laws, Official Says

5 Dec 2022 00:07 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: China Reopening Hopes May -2-

Iran's attorney general said the country had disbanded its so-called morality police and is considering altering the requirement that women cover their heads in public, a move that analysts said was aimed at peeling away support for antigovernment protests.

Mohammad-Jafar Montazeri outlined the steps Saturday, saying the law requiring veils, known as hijabs, was under review by Iran's Parliament and judiciary, and that the morality police had been abolished, according to government-run news agencies.

   
 
 
Ukraine Says Oil-Price Cap Won't Dent Russia's Ability to Fund War

KYIV, Ukraine-Ukraine denounced a price cap on Russian oil agreed to by the U.S. and its allies as a weak measure that would fail to deprive Russia's military machine of funds, as Moscow said it could stop supplying consumers in response.

The Group of Seven agreed Friday to cap the price of Russian oil at $60 a barrel, moving forward with an unprecedented sanction against one of the world's largest producers following its invasion of Ukraine.

   
 
 
Russia Will Rely on 'Shadow' Tanker Fleet to Keep Oil Flowing

Shipping companies have snapped up dozens of secondhand oil tankers this year, paying record prices for ice-class ships that can navigate frozen seas around Russia's Baltic ports in winter.

A driving force behind the purchases, say people familiar with the deals: To get Russian oil to market after the harshest sanctions to date strike Russia's energy industry next week.

   
 
 
British Police Raid London Home of Russian Oligarch, Seizing Cash and Devices

British police arrested a wealthy Russian businessman at his upscale London home, officials said Saturday, amid stepped-up pressure by the U.K. on Russian émigrés who are suspected of aiding the rule of President Vladimir Putin.

The U.K.'s National Crime Agency said more than 50 of its officers took part in the raid, seizing cash and digital devices. Police also arrested a man employed at the residence after he was seen leaving the building with a bag containing thousands of pounds in cash.

   
 
 
Credit Suisse's Investment Bank Spinoff Attracts Saudi Crown Prince

Saudi Arabia's crown prince and a U.S. private-equity firm run by Barclays PLC's former chief executive are among investors preparing to invest $1 billion or more into Credit Suisse's new investment bank, people familiar with the matter said.

Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is considering an investment of around $500 million to back the new unit, CS First Boston, and its CEO-designate, Michael Klein, some of the people said. Additional financial backing could come from U.S. investors including veteran banker Bob Diamond's Atlas Merchant Capital, people familiar with that potential investment said. Credit Suisse previously said it had $500 million committed from an additional investor it hasn't named.

   
 
 
New Zealand plans law to force Google, Meta to pay news publishers for content

New Zealand intends to require large tech companies like Google and Meta to compensate local media companies for content they use and share on their platforms.

Willie Jackson, New Zealand's minister of broadcasting, announced Sunday that legislation is being drawn up that will be based on a similar law in Australia, as well as pending legislation in Canada and measures in the U.K. and the EU.

   
 
 
Apple Makes Plans to Move Production Out of China

In recent weeks, Apple Inc. has accelerated plans to shift some of its production outside China, long the dominant country in the supply chain that built the world's most valuable company, say people involved in the discussions. It is telling suppliers to plan more actively for assembling Apple products elsewhere in Asia, particularly India and Vietnam, they say, and looking to reduce dependence on Taiwanese assemblers led by Foxconn Technology Group.

Turmoil at a place called iPhone City helped propel Apple's shift. At the giant city-within-a-city in Zhengzhou, China, as many as 300,000 workers work at a factory run by Foxconn to make iPhones and other Apple products. At one point, it alone made about 85% of the Pro lineup of iPhones, according to market-research firm Counterpoint Research.

   
 
 
Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Monday

00:01/UK: CBI Economic Forecast

01:01/IRL: Nov Ireland Services PMI

07:00/TUR: Nov PPI

07:00/TUR: Nov CPI

07:00/SWE: 3Q Balance of Payments

08:00/AUT: 3Q GDP

08:00/HUN: Oct Retail Sales

08:00/SVK: Oct Internal trade, incl Wholesale & Retail

08:00/CZE: 3Q Wages

08:15/SPN: Nov Spain Services PMI

08:45/ITA: Nov Italy Services PMI

08:50/FRA: Nov France Services PMI

08:55/GER: Nov Germany Services PMI

09:00/EU: Nov Eurozone Services PMI

09:00/UK: Nov UK monthly car registrations figures

09:30/UK: Nov S&P Global / CIPS UK Services PMI

09:30/UK: Nov UK Official Reserves

10:00/CYP: Nov Registered Unemployed

10:00/EU: Oct Retail trade

16:59/SWI: 2Q Locational & Consolidated banking statistics

16:59/SWI: 3Q International debt securities statistics

16:59/SWI: 2Q Domestic debt securities statistics

16:59/SWI: 3Q Exchange-traded derivatives statistics

17:59/UK: 3Q Household Finance Review expected around now

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions[https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 05, 2022 00:07 ET (05:07 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020221205eic500072


EMEA Morning Briefing: Shares Seen Slightly Higher Ahead of U.S. Inflation Data
1995 字
2022 年 12 月 9 日 05:01 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Germany labor cost index; UK Bank of England/Ipsos Inflation Attitudes Survey; trading updates from Anglo American, Associated British Foods

Opening Call:

Shares may post mild gains at the open after U.S. indexes ticked higher overnight, as traders turn to upcoming inflation data in the U.S. In Asia, stock benchmarks, oil and gold advanced; Treasury yields were mixed, while the greenback weakened.

Equities:

Stock futures point to slight gains in Europe at Friday's open after the S&P 500 snapped a five-session losing streak overnight.

Investors were encouraged by weekly U.S. jobs data Thursday showing the number of continuing jobless-benefit claims rose to the highest level since February, which was interpreted as reducing some of the pressure on the Federal Reserve to continue to raise interest rates, said Richard Farr, chief market strategist at Merion Capital Group.

"The small increase in unemployment claims may be viewed by some as a reason to reduce recession odds," Farr said.

Some economists suggest that it is too early to interpret higher jobless claims as a signal of a loosening labor market because seasonal issues could make it difficult to assess.

"Weak hiring during the holidays and weak incentives for workers to begin a new job around the holidays help push continuing claims higher from Thanksgiving through to New Year's," wrote Isfar Munir, U.S. economist at Citi, in a Thursday note. "While continuing claims have been rising for a few weeks now, the usual seasonal pattern prevent us from drawing any clear conclusions from the jobless claims data."

Even with Thursday's gains, investors are focused on coming inflation reports-producer prices on Friday and consumer prices on Tuesday-and next week's Fed meeting, said Louis Navellier, founder of Navellier & Associates. The expectation is for tame inflation reports and a dovish Fed statement. "We're just treading water, waiting to get all the good news," he said.

Read: Financial markets are flashing a warning that a recession is imminent: here's what it means for stocks

Forex:

The dollar weakened early Friday. "Unemployment claims were up, and in the continuing saga of bad news being good news, equities reacted positively," said Daniel Berkowitz, senior investment officer for Prudent Management Associates.

He added that "a gradually cooling jobs market offers insight into more far-reaching impacts on the economy."

If upcoming consumer-price index and producer-price index readings show moderating inflation, "there's a case to be made that inflation truly has peaked," he said.

The dollar and Treasury yields have risen this year as the Fed raised rates to fight inflation, and have often fallen this year when economic data suggested cooling inflation, which in turn could lead the Fed to slow the pace of rate increases.

Bonds:

Treasury yields were mixed in Asia after rising Thursday as investors turned their attention to producer-price index data.

Some analysts attributed Thursday's rise in yields to profit-taking by bondholders ahead of the November PPI report.

With a relative dearth of major U.S. macroeconomic information on Thursday, investors continued to contemplate the prospect of a still too-strong U.S. economy and whether a soft landing is "anywhere near achievable," said SPI Asset Management.

Ahead of next week's FOMC meeting, "the market is increasingly sensitive to every data point" and "tomorrow's PPI report is a potential game changer," said Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. Chief Economist Lindsey Piegza. The report "could undermine the Fed's plans for a pivot to a less aggressive policy" if producer price pressures fail to retreat.

Energy:

Crude oil prices rebounded in Asia amid a mixed outlook after declining overnight.

While optimism for China's eventual reopening is helping to support prices, oil is unlikely to move sharply higher due to looming fears of slowing global economic growth, said IG.

Reactions to the Russian oil price cap and the closure of the Keystone oil have been largely muted or short-lived, IG added.

Metals:

Gold prices rose early Friday ahead of the release of key U.S. inflation data.

The price of the precious metal is likely to remain around the $1,800/oz level ahead of the release of inflation expectations by the University of Michigan, said Oanda.

Investors are also likely watching for any further comment from the FOMC on when interest rates are expected to peak, Oanda added.

-

Copper prices advanced, sustaining a strong rally amid broad gains in base metals over recent weeks on the back of China reopening hopes and optimism for economic recovery.

ANZ pointed to a host of positive signals for copper demand, including the continued relaxation of pandemic curbs by Beijing and signs of stabilization in the country's real estate sector, which is a key source of copper demand.

ANZ said investor sentiment will remain buoyed by better-than-expected November import data, which could underpin more upbeat expectations for copper demand from the world's second-largest economy.

Meanwhile, Morgan Stanley highlighted aluminum, iron ore and metallurgical coal as their top commodities picks in the China reopening trade, and said it remains positive on gold, too.

Morgan Stanley cited tight supply, hydropower shortage and a demand pickup in China as reasons to bet on aluminum. For iron ore, the bank expects seasonally tight 1H supply and a backlog of infrastructure projects. Metallurgical coal is likely to get support from strong thermal-coal prices, as well as modestly improving demand outside China.

-

Chinese iron ore futures rose sharply, extending its recent bull run.

Galaxy Futures said buying interest will remain elevated as investors seek to position for an expected demand bounce next year amid China's reopening from the pandemic and stabilizing property-construction activity.

Supply dynamics also look favorable for prices, ANZ said, noting that major iron ore miner Vale recently slashed its output guidance due to production disruptions.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Banks Should Be Wary of Crypto, Top U.S. Regulator Says

Banks should take a cautious approach to digital asset markets, including discussing any new plans with regulators, a top U.S. banking authority said, pointing to ongoing turmoil among crypto firms.

Crypto industry risk management lacks maturity, and some industry practices mean trouble in one firm could spill over to others, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said Thursday.

   
 
 
SEC Asks Public Companies for More Information About Crypto Exposure

WASHINGTON-The Securities and Exchange Commission is asking public companies to detail their exposure to distressed crypto entities following the collapse of trading platform FTX and its affiliates.

In a notice posted to its website Thursday, the SEC said companies may have disclosure obligations related to the direct or indirect impact that recent crypto bankruptcies may have had on their businesses. It provided a list of sample questions that agency staff may pose to certain issuers based on their circumstances.

   
 
 
Senate Democrats Press Ahead With Their Own Spending Plan as Talks Stall

WASHINGTON-A top Senate Democrat said that his party planned to introduce an omnibus spending bill Monday, aiming to pressure Republicans to accept a deal or risk an alternative that would freeze government spending at current levels for the full year and cut off the ability to reallocate money in military and other programs.

Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.) said that the measure would provide military funding at the level Congress is authorizing in its separate defense policy bill-some $858 billion, or roughly a 10% increase-while also paying for what he called a needed increase to nondefense programs.

   
 
 
U.S. to Levy Human-Rights Sanctions on Russia, China

WASHINGTON-The U.S. is set to levy fresh sanctions against Russia and China on Friday, actions that include targeting Russia's deployment of Iranian drones in Ukraine, alleged human-rights abuse by both nations and Beijing's support of alleged illegal fishing in the Pacific, according to officials familiar with the matter.

The bulk of the expected sanctions are to be imposed under the Global Magnitsky Act, named after a whistleblower who died in a Moscow jail after accusing officials of corruption. The U.S., by using those powers to sanction high-profile government, military and business officials accused of human-rights abuses and corruption, says it aims to hold them accountable and deter others.

   
 
 
Credit Suisse Completes $2.4 Billion Capital Raise as It Advances Cost Cuts

Credit Suisse Group AG said Thursday that it completed its latest rights offering and had put into action around 80% of the cost cuts it planned for 2023, as the bank maintains course through its painful strategic review.

The Swiss lender said that 98.2% of rights offered had been exercised, or around 873 million new shares, until the end of the rights period at midday Zurich time on Thursday.

   
 
 
U.S. Sanctions Turkish Businessman It Says Brokered Oil Sales for Iran's Military

The Biden administration on Thursday levied sanctions against several Turkish businessmen and more than two dozen Turkish companies that officials said were selling oil worth hundreds of millions of dollars for Iran's terror-listed military unit.

The action against Sitki Ayan and the firms the U.S. Treasury Department said he used to broker sales for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps' Quds Force is a part of a broader effort to increase pressure on Tehran as talks over Iran's nuclear program flounder, according to analysts.

   
 
 
FTC Sues to Block Microsoft's Acquisition of Activision Blizzard

9 Dec 2022 00:01 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Shares Seen Slightly -2-

The Federal Trade Commission Thursday sued Microsoft Corp. to block its planned $75 billion acquisition of Activision Blizzard Inc., taking one of its biggest shots under the Biden administration at halting a merger of technology giants.

The lawsuit sets the stage for a court challenge over the deal as Microsoft agreed as part of negotiations with the "Call of Duty" publisher to defend the acquisition against a government lawsuit.

   
 
 
Google Ad Software Disrupted for Publishers Large and Small

Google's widely used advertising software for publishers suffered an outage of more than 2 1/2 hours Thursday evening that affected numerous publications large and small.

During the outage, publishers who use Google Ad Manager couldn't make their ad inventory available in exchanges for automated buying, according to publishers who use the technology. They also weren't able to load any ads that the publication had sold directly, the publishers said.

   
 
 
Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Friday

05:30/NED: Oct Manufacturing output

06:00/FIN: Oct Industrial Production

07:00/GER: 3Q Labour cost index

07:00/DEN: Oct Balance of payments (provisional figures)

07:00/DEN: Oct External trade (provisional figures)

07:00/NOR: Nov PPI

07:00/NOR: Nov CPI

08:00/SVK: Oct Foreign trade

08:00/SPN: Oct Industrial Production

08:00/SPN: 3Q Housing Price Index

08:00/SVK: Oct Industrial production

08:00/AUT: Oct Production Index

09:00/BUL: Oct Industrial Production

09:30/UK: Nov Bank of England/Ipsos Inflation Attitudes Survey

10:00/CRO: Oct Foreign Trade

10:00/MLT: Oct Industrial Production Index

10:00/GRE: Nov CPI

10:00/GRE: Oct Industrial Production Index

10:00/LUX: Oct Industrial Production

11:00/POR: Oct International trade statistics

15:59/UKR: 3Q GDP

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions[https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 09, 2022 00:01 ET (05:01 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020221209eic90005a


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks Face Muted Open After Mixed Wall Street Session
1243 字
2022 年 12 月 28 日 05:06 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

No major economic indicators or corporate updates expected

Opening Call:

European shares face a muted open on Wednesday in holiday-thinned trading. Asian stock benchmarks largely fell; Treasury yields, the dollar and oil futures edged higher; while gold weakened.

Equities:

Stock futures point to a mixed open for Europe amid holiday-trading conditions, as investors weigh optimism from news that China would drop quarantine requirements with the rapid spread of Covid infections there. U.S. stock indexes finished Tuesday's session mixed.

"China has really gone full force into abandoning zero-Covid and there are going to be some growing pains with that effort," said Michael Reynolds, vice president of investment strategy at Glenmede. "The explosion in case counts there is probably going to be economically disruptive to the downside for them."

Increased activity in China, however, could prove to be a mixed blessing when it comes to inflation outside the country, said Stephen Innes, managing director of SPI Asset Management.

"The good news is that inflation subsides as China reprises its role as a supplier of low-cost goods globally and supply chain bottlenecks ease. Still, the bad news is as growth accelerates through Q1, China's insatiable demand for raw materials and all things energy will push up prices of those commodities, much to the consternation of the Fed and ECB," he said.

Forex:

The dollar wavered in Asia amid liquidity-thinned markets. Traditionally, the last week of the year is one of the lightest regarding scheduled data and events, and "almost everyone is becoming one with their couch," said SPI Asset Management.

Bonds:

Treasury yields edged higher in Asia, after rising to their highest levels of December overnight as investors returned from the holiday weekend and awaited further clues to the outlook for the economy heading into 2023.

Trade is expected to be choppy amid thin, holiday trading conditions this week.

"Markets remain unconvinced by the Fed's hawkish outlook following the December rate hike, with traders viewing the future Fed path as particularly uncertain and data-dependent, which will cause data releases to be more heavily scrutinized ahead of the FOMC's next decision on Feb. 1," said Oxford Economics.

Energy:

Oil rose slightly early Wednesday, supported by China's plan to reopen its borders to international travel for the first time in almost three years, boosting expectations of stronger demand from the world's second-largest economy.

It's a major step toward easing curbs on its borders, said Phillip Nova.

"Throughout 2022, China's lockdown measures had often created acute, near-term demand declines, with the recent pivot causing some to increase their demand expectations for 2023," said Robbie Fraser, manager of global research and analytics at Schneider Electric.

"Still, recession risk and rising interest rates remain a top concern for crude futures, and the potential for headwinds continues to challenge any attempt by prices to move higher," he said.

Metals:

Gold edged lower in Asia amid a slightly stronger dollar, but losses may be limited by the prospects of safe-haven demand.

There is some cautiousness over the swift pace of China's reopening, particularly as Covid-19 infections are expected to reach a fresh peak in January, OCBC Treasury Research said.

Also, a scenario of fresh Covid-19 waves in other countries or a new variant could undermine sentiment, OCBC added.

-

Copper prices rose, extending this week's gains, as China's stepped-up reopening pace brightens the demand outlook into 2023.

But in the near term, the metal may suffer some price swings, Galaxy Futures said.

Some traders may be willing to dispose of their inventories at discounted prices, given weak downstream demand amid China's post-reopening infection surge, as well as the need of some traders to cash out on assets before the week-long Lunar New Year holiday.

-

Chinese iron ore futures inched higher, extending their recent muted trading pattern. Investors are likely weighing a mixed bag of signals, Galaxy Futures said.

Supply concerns are rising due to production and transportation delays amid China's post-reopening infection surge. But demand worries have also emerged over how strongly China's property market, a major source of iron ore demand in the country, could rebound in the short term, Galaxy said.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

U.S. Weighs New Precautionary Measures for Travelers From China

The Biden administration is weighing new precautionary measures for travelers entering the U.S. from China, according to American officials, as sales of air tickets out of China soared following Beijing's decision to reopen its borders to international travel for the first time in almost three years.

The officials declined to lay out in detail which policies the administration is considering, but they pointed to Japan and Malaysia as potential models for the types of measures that could be put in place. On Tuesday, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said the country will require a negative Covid-19 test upon arrival for travelers from China due to the rapid spread of the virus there.

   
 
 
Russia Bans Sales of Oil to Countries Imposing Price Cap

Russia on Tuesday banned the sale of its oil and petroleum products to countries that put a cap on their sales price, in a move that threatened more uncertainty ahead for global energy markets.

The Kremlin's action is an attempt to undermine a plan by the U.S. and its allies to bar the shipping, financing or insuring of seaborne Russian crude unless it is sold for $60 a barrel or less-a sanction leveled in response to Russia's invasion of neighboring Ukraine.

   
 
 
Moscow and Kyiv Battle for Towns in Ukraine's East

LVIV, Ukraine-Heavy fighting continued on Tuesday in eastern Ukraine, where Russia is pushing to seize the city of Bakhmut while Ukraine presses to wrestle back parts of the Luhansk region that Moscow has held for months.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, in a late-night address on Monday, described the situation in the east as "difficult and painful" but said Russia was expending substantial resources to achieve only incremental advances on the battlefield.

   
 
 
Apple's Best Bet Against China Might Be India

India could well become the manufacturing darling of Apple this decade. Beijing's own missteps have much to do with that. But New Delhi also deserves credit for a concerted push to make India an easier-and financially more attractive-place to build gadgets.

Many Western manufacturers are increasingly uncomfortable with their heavy reliance on China-especially after its uncompromising and unpredictable approach to public health over the past year. Violent protests at Apple supplier Foxconn's Zhengzhou factory in November further highlighted the risks of an overly concentrated supply chain.

   
 
 
Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Wednesday

07:00/SWE: Nov Foreign trade

09:00/AUT: Dec Austria Manufacturing PMI

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions[https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 28, 2022 00:06 ET (05:06 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020221228eics0007d


CE Noticias Financieras English
The 12 VALORANT bellwethers in 2022
2264 字
2022 年 12 月 31 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
This season has brought a lot of movement in the VALORANT ecosystem. The growth of the leagues has favored some necessary changes, but which have improved the competitive world of Riot Games' FPS. On the other hand we also have great victories, and many surprises.

But perhaps, the fall of G2 is the most resounding bellwether of this season that ends now. Let's see what are the 12 most important moments that we want to highlight this year 2022 in the world of VALORANT for the editorial staff of MARCA Gaming.

1. Changes in the VALORANT regional leaguesTo start the year, Riot Games brought us a new system of regional leagues with four different zones. After passing 2021 as the introductory year, the developer focused on making it the biggest esport in the world, and it's on its way.

The eight zones that had their own VRL were: Spain (with Portugal and Italy as well); France (with Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg); UK, Ireland and Nordic countries; Poland and Eastern Europe (and Israel); CIS; MENA; Turkey; and DACH.

This split, although changed before the end of the year with a view to 2023, has been very successful, and VALORANT has taken off at full speed. The start of this competitive year is undoubtedly the first highlight of 2022.

2. ACEND, from World Champion to second-to-last in EMEAThis VALORANT season has brought us several reality checks. The game was evolving, and its competitive scene with it. More and more, and at breakneck speed. This meant that, no matter how much you won a competition, it didn't mean that you were going to do well in the next one.

Just look at ACEND. The European club was the first qualifier for the VALORANT Champions (the World Cup) in 2021, but could only finish second to last in the VCT EMEA table in the spring. With 1-3 they did not make it past the group stage, and their result counting also the number of rounds, was only worsened by one team, BIG, who finished with 0-5 in last place.

ACEND now no longer continues as a club in the top competition at the end of 2022. Who would have thought it at the end of last year, when they were the surprise team that managed to take the top VALORANT trophy.

3. Optic wins Masters with EMEA goneThe first major international tournament of the year was the Masters held in Reykjavik. EMEA entered it with three teams, and after Acend had won the Champions. However, none of the three were able to put on a great performance, and ended up eliminated early.

The first one, Fnatic, did not get past the group stage, losing against ZETA and Ninjas in Pajamas. Later it would be Team Liquid who, despite passing the groups, would fall against LOUD in the upper bracket and finally against ZETA in the lower bracket, to lose in the playoffs. G2 would suffer the same fate. Despite beating ZETA 2-0, they did not overcome LOUD, losing 2-0 and then Paper Rex sent them home.

On the other side of the scale, OpTic Gaming, who arrived in the preliminary phase, managed to take the tournament with a surprise and take the Masters to North America, with a clear 3-0 in the final against Brazilians LOUD. These two teams have been the most consistent during the year.

4. KPI from Russia to RisingIn Spain, meanwhile, trying to fight for a place among the big boys, there was a clear candidate: KPI. The Spanish-Russian team had two teams, but after the disappearance of the CIS regional league with the war between Ukraine and Russia, they decided to take a place in the Radiant League.

The goal was to win and reach the first division. And they succeeded with flying colors. They only lost one game in the regular league, against Bisons, and easily passed in the final against the Bisons with a clear 3-0, which left no doubt that they should be the ones to fight for promotion.

That promotion was also achieved in a relatively easy way. Another 3-0 would be the result that would finally mark the passage of KPI to the Rising. After that promotion, they will have to make the grade next year, and they will do it with the exact same roster with which they were promoted.

5. FIVE is promoted to the Radiant League by winning all the presencials.And at the same time, below the Radiant League, in the Storm Circuit, FIVE Media Clan was something to talk about. With a completely Spanish team, led by Toruu and formed by Vinice, Navarro, Morthe, DoubleD and Miika, they managed to smash the Circuit and move up.

They didn't lose a face-to-face match out of all the matches they won, meaning they won every face-to-face stop they entered. That spot in the Storm points standings granted them amatch against Ramboot that they ended up taking easily with a 2-0 win.

Finally, the roster would be signed by Movistar Riders, to take them to compete in the Rising, and although some have left before the competition starts, what is clear is that the players had a very high level after competing in the Circuit.

6. FPX wins Copenhagen Masters by loosers bracketFPX had a team full of players who by name were very good. However, their performance had not been the best in the season, and they qualified as third seed from EMEA for the Copenhagen Masters. Once there, and despite losing to DRX in the preliminary group stage, the story changed.

They advanced to the finals, and there they lost against Fnatic, by a clear 2-0. They were showing weakness due to the absence of Suygetsu, who had not been able to make it to the tournament. However, in the loosers bracket, when the Russian returned, they were reactivated. Their 2-1 win over Guild gave them hope, and in the quarterfinals they took revenge on DRX with a 2-0 win.

Finally, they also took revenge on Fnatic, winning in a very tight match in the semifinals of the lower bracket, and in the final of this part of the bracket, they beat the champions of the previous Masters, Optic. The final was a spectacle thatMARCAwas able to tell from Copenhagen, and that the Europeans ended up winning by beating Paper Rex.

7. Change of regional leagues and franchise leagueIn this year, Riot Games has also given rise to other changes, which will take place in 2023. Although between the end of 2021 and the beginning of 2022 they created the current system of competitions, they did not take long to change it, bringing now a new system for next year.

In it, the number of leagues has changed in Europe, becoming now nine, dividing the Rising in the Spanish, Portuguese and Italian, and keeping Eastern Europe, DACH, France, Portugal, Turkey and Northern Europe.

But the most important thing, apart from the new regional leagues, are the changes in the main league, the VCT. It will now be a semi-franchise league. Riot has chosen the top 10 projects from the Americas, EMEA and Pacific to form three top-level leagues. For the time being, it will not be possible to be relegated from these leagues, but one team per year will be promoted from the Challengers, the regional leagues.

This variation is a revolution for the systems used by Riot in League of Legends, since now it is not a closed league, but it is possible to compete to reach it, giving more importance to the different countries. This, however, has generated a problem in our country, where the rule of three Spaniards per team has been implemented, which has been criticized as lowering the average level of the competition in exchange for giving more opportunities to national talent.

8. The Ocelote controversy and the fall of G2This bellwether is difficult to place both in time and place. Carlos 'Ocelote', the former CEO of G2 had to leave the team after a recording of him partying with the misogynist and cancelled in several social networks, Andrew Tate. This, generated a controversy with his team, G2, and earned him a sanction from Riot.

This, however, came with the worst timing he could. This problem, and the cancellation, arose when G2 was engaged in a fight for one of the franchise slots in North America. Riot, in view of what had happened, decided not to give it to them, and thus punish one of their most prominent organizations, sending them to the NA regional league.

This was the 'fall' of G2 from the Franchise League, and in general from the high level VALORANT. Without that possibility, they will have to look to move up in 2023, and they will do so with a new roster, which will fight to occupy the eleventh place. That roster is totally different, as all of its players left the team when it did not enter franchising.

9. Three Spanish teams in the new VCTThose who did enter the Franchise League, but in EMEA, were three Spanish teams. KOI, Giants and Heretics earned their place in the top category on their own merits, for their project, their work so far and their investment in the future.

Spain is the region that contributes the most teams, as it is the only one with three, followed by Turkey, with two (BBL and FUT Esports), and France, with another two (Team Vitality and KCorp). The last three are Natus Vincere (Ukrainian), Team Liquid (North American) and Fnatic (English). This means that we are in a league that will be played in Berlin, but without German teams.

Therewas talk that the league could have been held in Barcelona, but finally Riot decided to choose the German capital because of the proximity and the facilities offered by the ecosystem already created for the LoL LEC. On the other hand, the regional leagues have seen a problem in this, and that is that Riot does not allow academies, so the promotion of these three Spanish clubs has generated three slots in the Rising.

10. Mixwell makes the leap to HereticsAnd with the fall of G2 and the arrival of the Spaniards to the franchises, the best Spanish player of VALORANT was not going to stay still in the samurai team. Rumors began to swirl that he might go to KOI, but nothing could be further from the truth. In the end the move was to Team Heretics.

Heretics were interested as soon as he left, and amidst rumors, with Mixwell saying this would be the last club of his career, and Ibai saying that the pros on his team didn't think Mixwell was the piece they needed, he finally landed at the Madrid club.

This happened after LOUD's victory in the world championship, but we made this anachronism for its narrative sense, and so, the former CS:GO player in Riders, returned to Madrid to fight representing a Spanish club in the international arena.

11. LOUD World ChampionOf course, the outcome of the rivalry between Optic and LOUD had to be a shocker. LOUD, eliminated by Optic at the Copenhagen Masters in the qualifying round, and who lost to the Americans in the Reykjavik final, got their revenge once and for all in the best game.

Because that's how legends are made, both teams fell in World Cup Group B, and Optic won again, condemning LOUD to second place. However, both went through, and won their finals matches without any problems, to meet again in the semifinals. There, a Less apoteósico gave rise to a clear 2-0 for LOUD, who would wait in the final to the outcome of the other semifinal between Optic and DRX.

The North Americans narrowly got through the round, in a very tight 3-2, and in the final of the World Cup, the Brazilians would be waiting for them again, so that now it was Aspas who showed his quality, taking the world title to Brazil with a 3-1 win .

12. G2 Gozen world championAnd as if destiny had been written by one of history's greatest writers, in the year in which the men's G2 was excluded from the VALORANT franchises due to a scandal involving a misogynist, the women's team gained momentum. G2 Gozen, the samurai, became the first Game Changers Championship world champions.

After a great year in which they were the leading exponents of VALORANT in EMEA, G2 Gozen took a beating. In October, in the Game Changers Series 3, they were unable to beat Guild X, and arrived at the GC Championship as second in Europe.

However, this was not a problem for them. Without trembling, they went on to beat their opponents: 2-0 against X10 Saphire, 2-1 against Cloud9 White (the women's section of the team that took their place in the men's franchises), and 2-0 against Team Liquid Brazil, to reach the final against Shopify Rebellion GC .

In this one, however, they came out asleep, and lost the first two maps. But history had one more surprise up its sleeve. The samurai did not give up, and completed an incredible reverse sweep giving three beatings to their opponents in Ascent, Icebox and Breeze, and closed the tournament taking the trophy.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221231eicv006x8


Danish Financial Supervisory Authority: Sanctions against Russia and Belarus
Distributed by Contify.com
4185 字
2023 年 1 月 10 日
Contify Banking News
ATINBK
英文
Copyright © 2023. Contify.com
The EU has adopted a large number of regulations with extensive sanctions against Russia and Belarus. Failure to comply with the sanctions is a violation of the Criminal Code and may result in a fine or imprisonment. The Danish Financial Supervisory Authority only supervises the financial companies, but not other legal or physical persons who may violate the regulations. The financial companies are obliged to keep up-to-date on the sanctions.

Key Highlight:

* The ban on receiving and sending messages in SWIFT includes legal persons, entities or bodies that are directly or indirectly owned by more than 50% of the sanctioned banks.

Original Press Release:

Jan. 10 -- Danish Financial Supervisory Authority issued the following news release:

- Here you can get information about the sanctions that the EU has adopted against Russia and Belarus and which concern the financial companies.

If you want to know more about the main features of the regulations, including links and examples

The international community has strongly condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Therefore, since 24 February 2022, the EU has also adopted a large number of regulations with extensive sanctions against Russia and Belarus. The sanctions are implemented in the EU. A regulation is a binding legal act that is directly applicable to persons and companies in the EU from the date of publication in the EU Official Journal. The regulations are directly applicable in EU member states. This means that companies, public authorities, private individuals etc. must comply with the rules without separate Danish legislation being laid down in this regard. Failure to comply with the sanctions is a violation of the Criminal Code and may result in a fine or imprisonment.

There are a number of different types of sanctions against Russia:

* Ban on the export of dual-use products and technology.

* Ban on the export of products that can contribute to Russia's military and technological improvement.

* Ban on the export of products and technology that can be used for oil refining.

* Ban on the export of products that can be used in the aerospace industry.

* Designation of a number of individuals and entities subject to freezing, including Russian President Vladimir Putin.

* Entry restrictions.

* Financial restrictions, including restrictions on trading in securities.

You can find more general information about the sanctions on the websites of the Danish Business Authority(https://erhvervsstyrelsen.dk/skaerpede-sanktioner-mod-rusland[https://erhvervsstyrelsen.dk/skaerpede-sanktioner-mod-rusland]) and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs(https://thetradecouncil.dk/nyheder/eu-sanktioner-som-foelge-af-ruslands-invasion-af-ukraine-per-28-februar[https://thetradecouncil.dk/nyheder/eu-sanktioner-som-foelge-af-ruslands-invasion-af-ukraine-per-28-februar]) .

The EU Commission has published a website with FAQs about the sanctions against Russia(https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/banking-and-finance/international-relations/restrictive-measures-sanctions/sanctions-adopted-following-russias-military-aggression-against-ukraine_en#assets[https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/banking-and-finance/international-relations/restrictive-measures-sanctions/sanctions-adopted-following-russias-military-aggression-against-ukraine_en#assets]). The FAQ answers, among other things, questions about the financial restrictions, freezing and insurance. The EU Commission has also issued the following on financial companies' compliance with the sanctions and Ukrainian refugees' access to an account(https://www.eba.europa.eu/eba-calls-financial-institutions-ensure-compliance-sanctions-against-russia-following-invasion[https://www.eba.europa.eu/eba-calls-financial-institutions-ensure-compliance-sanctions-against-russia-following-invasion]).

Below you can find more information about the significance of the main features of the regulations in relation to financial companies.

The role of the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority in relation to sanctions The FSA is tasked with supervising whether the financial companies covered by the Money Laundering Act comply with the EU's sanctions regulations. This follows from Section 47 of the Money Laundering Act.

This means that the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority only supervises the financial companies, but not other legal or physical persons who may violate the regulations.

The financial companies are obliged to keep up-to-date on the sanctions and ensure in their daily work that they do not violate them. This means, among other things, that the financial companies must freeze all funds and financial resources owned or controlled by the persons listed in the annexes to the regulations. In addition, the financial companies must, among other things, ensure that they do not contribute to trading in securities issued by credit institutions etc., where more than half are owned by persons listed in the regulations. In addition, a large number of additional sanctions have been stipulated. Please refer to the overview of the significance of the sanctions for the financial sector below.

It is important to emphasize that the Danish FSA does not supervise the dispositions of financial companies in real time and thus cannot continuously monitor whether a company may be in breach of a regulation. The Danish FSA can, however, carry out inspections in individual companies with a view to ensuring that the companies comply with the regulations. Here, the Danish FSA will, as a starting point, assess whether the financial company's work to ensure compliance with the sanctions is sufficient. If the FSA finds that the financial companies are in breach of the sanction regulations, the FSA can order the companies to take the necessary measures. Furthermore, failure to comply will be a violation of the Criminal Code, which is why the case will be handed over to the police

In addition to supervising the financial companies' compliance with the regulations, the Danish FSA is the competent authority in relation to general guidance on EU regulations with sanctions on financial services, investments, credit, lending, government bonds and insurance.

The competence to provide guidance on EU sanctions in the other areas is distributed among a number of different authorities. The distribution between the authorities appears on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs .

It should be noted that the Danish FSA cannot provide concrete advice in relation to individual companies on how the companies should organize themselves in relation to complying with the sanctions. Here, the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority must refer to the fact that you, as a company, are looking for e.g. actual legal assistance if you need it.

Main features of the regulations in relation to the financial companies and links

The guidance is not exhaustive, and the Danish FSA must emphasize that the duty to comply with the sanctions rests with the individual company, including financial companies, which independently and not solely based on the descriptions below must deal with the significance of the regulations for their business and customer service.

The regulations are quite comprehensive and can be changed at short notice. Furthermore, the sanctions have not introduced a total ban on all forms of trade, exchange of financial services, etc. with Russia. This is also why it is important that the companies orientate themselves in the individual regulations and any changes to them that may come.

Below are some of the prohibitions that apply in the financial area, indicated with examples. The examples are an expression of the FSA's immediate interpretation of the wording of the regulations in question. The Council's regulations do not contain in-depth explanations of how the provisions are to be understood. The Danish Financial Supervisory Authority's opinion must therefore be taken with the reservation that the EU Commission may come up with an interpretation contribution later, which may change the understanding of the provisions. The Danish Financial Supervisory Authority must therefore refer to continuously keeping informed about this. The examples do not absolve the companies of their responsibility in connection with compliance with the sanction rules.

In relation to the financial companies, the following main features of the sanctions are of importance to the companies' business model:

Sanctions against Russia

* Freezing the assets of certain persons and entities

* Introduced on 17 March 2014 by  Council Regulation No 269/2014

* Amended on 23 February 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/260

* Amended on 8 April 2022 by Council Regulation 2022/581

* Amended on 21 July 2022 by Council Regulation 2022/1270

* Amended on 6 October 2022 by Council Regulation 2022/1904

* Amended on 16 December 2022 by Council Regulation 2022/2474

On 17 March 2014, the EU introduced freezing requirements with Council Regulation No. 269/2014, which means that funds and financial resources belonging to a number of named persons or entities must be frozen. Since 24 February 2022, the EU has made changes as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and expanded the list of persons and entities where there is a requirement to freeze funds, assets and other financial resources.

Freezing the assets of certain individuals and organizations means that you as a company may not make money or assets or other financial resources directly or indirectly available to a number of individuals and companies in Russia due to sanctions against the country.

With the amendment in Council Regulation 2022/581, four banks are added to Annex I of Council Regulation 269/2014. This means that all funds and financial resources belonging to, owned, held or controlled by the banks mentioned below are frozen:

* Otkritie FC Bank

* Novikombank

* Sovcombank

* VTB Bank

* Sberbank

It also has the consequence that no funds or financial resources may be directly or indirectly made available to or benefit the above banks.

The above four banks have been subject to the SWIFT ban since 12 March 2022. With the ban from 8 April 2022, these four banks are also covered by the freezing requirement.

As a company, you must check whether your customer is covered by the lists. You must be aware that the immediate customer may appear as a Danish company, but may be owned by the relevant Russian persons on the freezing lists. You can, among other things, uncover through your obligation under the Money Laundering Act to carry out customer due diligence procedures and monitoring of customers, including the requirement to know the beneficial owners. Money etc. that belongs to a person or company covered by the sanctions and that is in your custody must be immediately frozen. This means that the money, assets and other financial resources in your possession must be withheld and made unavailable to the person or company.

Even if a company has beneficial owner(s) who are Russian citizens, the sanctions apply only if the beneficial owner(s) are on the list of sanctioned persons. If you as a company have a customer where the beneficial owner(s) is a Russian citizen listed on the list of sanctioned persons, you must immediately withhold and freeze any money or assets or other financial resources so that these be made unavailable to the sanctioned beneficial owner(s).

You can find more information about freezing, including who you must notify in this regard, on the Danish Business Authority's website .

Prohibition of financing through the issuance of securities or loans

* Introduced on 31 July 2014 by  Council Regulation 833/2014

* Amended on 24 February 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/262

* Amended on 25 February 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/328

* Amended on 9 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/394

* Amended on 8 April 2022 by Council Regulation 2022/576

The EU has introduced a ban on financing by issuing securities or loans.

There is a prohibition on the direct or indirect purchase, sale or provision of investment services for or assistance in connection with the issue of or any other trade in transferable securities and money market instruments within specified time intervals.

The ban means that a financial institution may not directly or indirectly buy or sell bonds, shares or similar financial instruments

* issued between 1 August 2014 and 12 September 2014 if they have a maturity of more than 90 days

* issued between 12 September 2014 and 12 April 2022 if they have a maturity of more than 30 days.

You may also not provide investment services for or assistance in connection with the issuance of the financial instruments in question.

The ban on the purchase, sale or delivery of said financial instruments applies in relation to instruments issued by major credit institutions or other major institutions expressly mandated to promote the competitiveness and diversification of the Russian economy and encourage investment, and which are established in Russia, where the Russian state owns or controls more than 50% per 1 August 2014.

This includes the following companies:

* SBER BANK

* VTB BANK

* GAZPROM BANK

* VNESHECONOMBANK (VEB)

* ROSSELKHOZBANK

In addition, you may not directly or indirectly buy, sell or deliver transferable securities and money market instruments issued after 12 April 2022.

The prohibition, which includes the direct or indirect purchase, sale or delivery of financial instruments, also applies to legal persons, entities or bodies which is established outside the Union and where an entity directly or indirectly owns more than 50% of the above companies.

The prohibition also covers situations where legal persons, entities or bodies act on behalf of or at the direction of an entity covered by the above.

This means that if you have a customer who wants to buy or sell bonds, shares or similar financial instruments with companies included in the list above, you must not assist directly or indirectly with the purchase or sale thereof.

The prohibition on indirect purchase, sale and delivery means that it also covers situations where dealings are made with a company that is not directly covered by sanctions, but which is owned or controlled by a person, company or body that is covered by sanctions .

The ban is limited to the companies and the time intervals mentioned above. There is thus no total ban on buying or selling bonds, shares or similar financial instruments in relation to Russian companies. However, you as a company must be aware that the person or company with whom you do business is also subject to other sanctions than, for example, financial sanctions.

For securities issued by major credit institutions or other institutions established in Russia or entities sanctioned, a distinction is made between trading in already issued securities, which is permitted, and all new securities, which are subject to prohibition.

Any trade in a financial instrument with e.g. However, the Central Bank of Russia is covered by the ban, regardless of whether it is already issued securities or new securities.

The Regulations specify which legal persons, entities and bodies are subject to sanctions.

An entity that does not fall under the prohibitions is not subject to sanctions.

The Council Regulation of 8 April 2022 also introduces a ban on selling transferable securities denominated in an official currency of a Member State issued after 12 April 2022 or shares in undertakings for collective investment that provide exposure to such securities , to Russian citizens or natural persons residing in Russia, or legal entities, entities or bodies established in Russia.

Prohibition on receiving deposits from certain Russian citizens

* Introduced on 25 February 2022 by Council Regulation 2022/328

* Amended on 8 April 2022 by Council Regulation 2022/576

On 25 February 2022, the EU introduced a ban on receiving deposits of over 100,000 euros from Russian citizens or persons residing in Russia or entities etc. established in Russia.

A deposit is understood as an amount on deposit that results from deposits or from intermediate transactions carried out as part of ordinary banking business, and which must be repaid by a credit institution under certain conditions laid down by law and by agreement. It will e.g. apply to savings accounts or accounts that give access to investments.

The ban also includes receiving securities, e.g. in the event of subsequent sales, buy back operations, collateral or pledging, regardless of whether these transactions were carried out or not.

However, the ban does not apply to citizens of the EU or natural persons who have a temporary or permanent residence permit in the EU. This means that if a person with European citizenship resides in Russia, that person will still be able to make deposits. The same will apply if a Russian citizen has a residence permit in an EU country.

In addition, the ban does not apply to deposits that are necessary for non-prohibited cross-border trade in goods and services between the EU and Russia. This means that if cross-border trade takes place that is not prohibited by the sanctions, you as a company will be able to receive necessary deposits as a result.

The Council Regulation of 8 April 2022 also introduces a ban on selling transferable securities denominated in an official currency of a Member State issued after 12 April 2022 or shares in undertakings for collective investment that provide exposure to such securities , to Russian citizens or natural persons residing in Russia, or legal entities, entities or bodies established in Russia.

Ban on transactions with the Central Bank of Russia

* Introduced on 23 February 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/262

* Amended on 25 February 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/328

* Amended on 28 February 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/334

On 23 February 2022, the EU introduced a ban on transactions with Russia's central bank.

This means that it is prohibited to directly or indirectly buy, sell or provide investment services for or assistance in connection with the issue of or any other trade in transferable securities and money market instruments issued after 9 March 2022 by:

a) Russia and the Government of Russia or

b) the Central Bank of Russia or

c) legal persons, entities or bodies acting on behalf of or at the direction of the Central Bank of Russia.

It is also prohibited to directly or indirectly establish or participate in arrangements for the provision of new loans or credits to legal persons, entities or bodies for the above after 23 February 2022.

However, there is an exception to this, as the ban does not apply to loans or credits that have the specific and documented purpose of providing financing for the non-prohibited import or export of products and non-financial services between the EU and a third country, including expenditure on goods and services from another third country necessary to perform the export or import contracts.

Furthermore, the prohibition regarding the establishment or participation in arrangements with a view to granting new loans or credits does not apply to withdrawals of credit amounts or payments made pursuant to a contract entered into before 23 February 2022. This is provided that, that the following conditions are met:

a) All terms and conditions for such withdrawals of credit amounts or payments:

i. were agreed before 23 February 2022

ii. has not been modified on or after that date, and

b) a contractual due date for full repayment of all funds made available and for the lapse of all undertakings, rights and obligations under the contract was fixed before     23 February 2022.

Prohibition on receipt/transfer of cash to certain Russian citizens or companies

* Introduced on 2 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/345

* Amended on 8 April 2022 by Council Regulation 2022/576

The EU has introduced a ban on the receipt/transfer of cash to certain Russian citizens or companies.

It is prohibited to sell, deliver, transfer or export euro-denominated banknotes to Russia or to natural or legal persons, entities or bodies in Russia, including the Government and Central Bank of Russia, or for use in Russia.

However, the prohibition does not apply if the sale, delivery, transfer or export is necessary for the personal use of natural persons traveling to Russia or members of their immediate family traveling with them.

In addition, the prohibition does not apply if it is for official purposes of a diplomatic or consular representation or international organization in Russia that enjoys immunity in accordance with international law. This means, for example, that in certain cases local employees may be paid at a Danish consular representation or international organization in Russia.

The ban in the sanctions only applies to euros. However, on 31 March 2022, the Danish Parliament has attached a law on restrictions on the sale of cash and securities in Danish kroner corresponding to the European sanctions regarding transactions in banknotes and securities in euros to Russia or Belarus. You can find the law here .

The Council Regulation of 8 April 2022 extends the ban on the export of euro-denominated banknotes to all official currencies of the Member States. This means that it is prohibited to sell, deliver, transfer or export banknotes denominated in an official currency of a Member State to Russia or to natural or legal persons, entities or bodies in Russia, including the Government and Central Bank of Russia, or for use in Russia .

Ban on receiving and sending messages in SWIFT

* Introduced on 2 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/345

From 12 March 2022, the EU has introduced a ban on receiving and sending messages via specialized services for financial payment messages (SWIFT) in relation to a number of named companies.

This means that you, as a financial company in Denmark, cannot, when you carry out a transaction, use SWIFT to exchange financial data with the covered legal persons, entities or bodies that appear in the list below, or to legal persons, entities or bodies , which is established in Russia and of which an entity directly or indirectly owns more than 50% when you transact in your business.

The companies covered by the SWIFT ban are the following:

The name of the legal person, entity or body

Effective from

Bank Otkritie: 12 March 2022

Novikombank: 12 March 2022

Promsvyazbank: 12 March 2022

Bank Rossiya: 12 March 2022

Sovcombank: 12 March 2022

VNESHECONOMBANK (VEB): 12 March 2022

VTB BANK: 12 March 2022

Sberbank: 14 June 2022

Credit Bank of Moscow: 14 June 2022

Joint Stock Company Russian Agricultural Bank, JSC Rosselkhozbank: 14 June 2022

At the same time, this also means that if a Russian citizen is a customer of one of the above banks, the person in question cannot expect to be able to use his credit card in e.g. Denmark.

However, an exclusion from SWIFT does not mean that payments cannot be made between banks in Russia and banks in other countries. However, with the exclusion from the SWIFT system, it becomes much more difficult for the Russian banks, as they have to send messages in a different way ("manual message").

The sanctions do not preclude Russian banks from being able to circumvent EU sanctions by making payments via a third country that has not implemented similar sanctions. However, the Russian bank will still not have access to send payment messages via SWIFT, which will complicate the transactions.

Furthermore, Russian sanctioned banks cannot circumvent the EU sanctions by using subsidiaries around the world. The ban on receiving and sending messages in SWIFT also includes legal persons, entities or bodies that are directly or indirectly owned by more than 50% of the sanctioned banks.

On 3 June 2022, the EU adopted Council Regulation 2022/879, which contains an extension of which companies are covered by the SWIFT ban. With the Council Regulation of 3 June 2022, 3 more Russian financial companies are added to the list.

Sanctions against Belarus

Prohibition on providing technical assistance, brokerage, financing or financial assistance, including financial derivatives as well as insurance and reinsurance

* Introduced on 18 May 2006 by  Council Regulation No 765/2006

* Amended on 2 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/355

Prohibition against the sale of negotiable securities

* Introduced on 9 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/398

* Amended on 8 April by Council Regulation 2022/577

The Council Regulation of 8 April 2022 introduces a ban on selling negotiable securities denominated in the official currency of a Member State issued after 12 April 2022, or shares in collective investment undertakings providing exposure to such securities, to Belarusian citizens or natural persons residing in Belarus or legal persons, entities or bodies established in Belarus.

Prohibition of listing and providing services on market places registered or recognized in the Union in respect of negotiable securities

* Introduced on 9 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/398

Prohibition on receiving deposits from Belarusian citizens or companies

* Introduced on 9 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/398

Ban on transactions with the Central Bank of Belarus

* Introduced on 9 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/398

Prohibition of receiving/transferring cash to certain Belarusian citizens or companies

* Introduced on 9 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/398

* Amended on 8 April by Council Regulation 2022/577

The Council Regulation of 8 April 2022 introduces a ban on the sale, supply, transfer or export of banknotes denominated in the official currency of a Member State to Belarus or to natural or legal persons, entities or bodies in Belarus, including the Government and Central Bank of Belarus, or for use in Belarus.

Ban on receiving and sending messages in SWIFT for three Belarusian banks (the ban will take effect from March 20, 2022)

* Introduced on 9 March 2022 by  Council Regulation 2022/398

On 3 June 2022, the EU adopted Council Regulation 2022/877, which contains an extension of which companies are covered by the SWIFT ban. With the Council Regulation of June 3, 2022, 1 Belarusian financial company is added to the list.

Disclaimer: The Above Content is Auto-Translated

Source: Danish Financial Supervisory Authority

[Category: Banks]

Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.

文件 ATINBK0020230203ej1a000rt


Genmab A/S - International Trade Controls Policy
Genmab A/S published this content on 18 Jan 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 18 Jan 2023 08:49:04 UTC.
1793 字
2023 年 1 月 18 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/0F35B1135CFB2A93CC80FC471936B07A086F516F]

International Trade Controls Policy

Date of Effect: July 2022

Version: 1.0

International Trade Controls Policy

Objective and Purpose

Genmab has a well-established reputation for conducting business in an ethical, transparent and compliant way. This reputation is built on Genmab's commitment to integrity, a core Genmab value reflected throughout Genmab's Code of Conduct, approved and adopted by the Genmab Board of Directors (2021). Further, our Genmab Code of Conduct specifies that we take seriously our responsibility to assure that our products and services move across borders in full compliance with applicable trade and other regulations.

The objective of this international trade controls policy (the "Policy") is to ensure that all business activities of Genmab A/S including its subsidiaries and associated companies (collectively "Genmab") comply with

* international economic or financial sanctions (" International Sanctions"), which prohibit or regulate business conduct towards specific countries, regions, entities and individuals, and

* international export controls (" International Export Controls"), which prohibit or regulate the export of certain items to certain countries or end-users.

Non-compliance with International Sanctions and International Export Controls may expose Genmab, its employees and others associated with Genmab to civil, regulatory and criminal penalties, including substantial fines, losses and reputational risk and may have significant adverse effects on business relationships.

If a Genmab employee or associated person has any concerns as to this Policy, or perceives any conflict or inconsistency between this Policy and governing laws or any other Genmab policy, rules or procedures, the concern should be promptly raised with and direction sought from Genmab Legal.

Who must comply with this Policy?

This Policy applies to all employees, officers, directors of Genmab, management, and contingent staff regardless of work location and to such other persons as designated by Genmab from time to time (each a "Genmab Person").

This Policy also applies to anyone performing services for or on behalf of Genmab.

It is the responsibility of each and every Genmab Person, as relevant, to assure proper implementation of this Policy within their respective area(s) of functional responsibility, to lead by good example, and to provide guidance to their staff and reports as needed in order to enable them to assure their own compliance with this Policy.

Genmab A/S Kalvebod Brygge 43, DK-1560 Copenhagen V, Denmark

Tel. +45 7020 2728

www.genmab.com[http://www.genmab.com]

CVR no. 2102 3884

Page 1 of 5

Date of Effect: July 2022

Version: 1.0

We expect that you:

* are familiar and comply with the requirements imposed by this Policy; and

* report any breach or suspected potential breach of this Policy or related laws and regulations immediately to Genmab Legal on legal@genmab.com[mailto:legal@genmab.com] or report the matter to Genmab through the Speak Up Compliance Hotline as below:

* 24/7 - Online or by Phone

* GenmabSpeakUp.ethicspoint.com[https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/media/en/gui/107509/index.html] o Denmark: 80-83-01-69 o Netherlands: 0800-020-1556 o United States: 1-844-942-3289 o Japan: 0800-123-0136

What are International Sanctions

International Sanctions are laws and regulations enacted by governments (e.g. the United States), international organizations (e.g. the United Nations) and supranational bodies (e.g. the European Union) to promote foreign policy and other objectives, such as the support of peace efforts, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. International Sanctions are mainly implemented by prohibiting companies and individuals from doing business with specific individuals, legal entities, countries, regions and governments, which have been involved in human rights violations, corruption, terrorism and other types of criminal activities.

Examples of International Sanctions include, but are not limited to, prohibitions or restrictions on the following:

* Transactions, including payments and money transfers, with/to and/or in specific countries, entities, individuals and banks, and

* Transactions related to certain countries.

What are International Export Controls

International Export Controls are laws and regulations enacted by governments, international organizations and supranational bodies to ensure international peace, security and stability by controlling exports of certain items to critical countries and end-users of concern with respect to public security, including the prevention of acts of terrorism and human rights violations.

Examples of International Export Controls include, but are not limited to, prohibitions or restrictions on the following:

* supply, sale, transfer or export of certain sensitive products (e.g. explosives, missile and nuclear technology), equipment and services either directly or via a third party/country, and

* supply, sale, transfer or export of dual-use technology, i.e., technology that both has a commercial and military use.

RESTRICTIONS

International Sanctions - Restricted countries and regions

Genmab A/S Kalvebod Brygge 43, DK-1560 Copenhagen V, Denmark

Tel. +45 7020 2728

www.genmab.com[http://www.genmab.com]

CVR no. 2102 3884

Page 2 of 5

Date of Effect: July 2022

Version: 1.0

Under this Policy it is prohibited for Genmab to engage, directly or indirectly, in any activities or business with state entities (governments), individuals, legal entities or groups in the following countries and regions without the prior written approval of Genmab Legal (provided this is not contrary to mandatory law):

* Cuba

* Iran

* North Korea

* Syria

* Venezuela

* Russia

* Donetsk region

* Luhansk region

* Crimea region

* Belarus

International Sanctions may also prohibit dealings with individuals, groups or entities in other countries or regions in addition to those listed above. The most relevant countries and regions subject to International Sanctions may be found here:

https://www.sanctionsmap.eu/#/main[https://www.sanctionsmap.eu/#/main]

https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/Programs/Pages/faq_10_page.aspx[https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/Programs/Pages/faq_10_page.aspx]

International Sanctions - Sanctioned individuals, entities or groups

Trading with individuals, entities or groups listed on sanctions lists is strictly prohibited under this Policy. The most relevant individuals, entities and groups subject to International Sanctions may be found here:

https://webgate.ec.europa.eu/fsd/fsf[https://eeas.europa.eu/headquarters/headquarters-homepage_en/8442/Consolidated%20list%20of%20sanctions]

https://www.un.org/securitycouncil/content/un-sc-consolidated-list[https://www.un.org/securitycouncil/content/un-sc-consolidated-list]

https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/default.aspx[https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/default.aspx]

https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/consolidated.aspx[https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/consolidated.aspx]

International Export Controls - Exportation of materials and products

International Export Controls generally prohibit the export of certain items to critical countries and end-users. Genmab does not trade with the military. To the extent required, Genmab Legal will conduct the relevant export control analysis of Genmab products on an ongoing basis to ensure that Genmab remains compliant with International Export Controls. If a supplier informs any Genmab Person that items provided by the supplier to Genmab are subject to export controls or is a dual-use item, Genmab Legal must be informed immediately.

If the material or product contains a substance that could be used for military or terrorist purposes, then it could be considered as a "dual use" product hence covered by International Export Controls. Please seek further advice from Genmab Legal if you have any concerns relating to dual use.

Genmab A/S Kalvebod Brygge 43, DK-1560 Copenhagen V, Denmark

Tel. +45 7020 2728

www.genmab.com[http://www.genmab.com]

CVR no. 2102 3884

Page 3 of 5

Date of Effect: July 2022

Version: 1.0

How To Comply

Genmab must always comply with applicable International Sanctions and International Export Controls, including but not limited to U.S. and EU sanctions and export controls (provided this is not contrary to mandatory law).

Everyone covered to this Policy as described in Section 0 above, must conduct their activities in full compliance with the Policy and all applicable International Sanctions and International Export Controls. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance to carry out relevant prior screening of relevant activities and business partners and to be alert to any issues that may be contrary to International Sanctions and/or International Export Controls.

We expect that you:

* ensure that relevant activities and business partners are subject to a due diligence screening by Genmab Procurement;

* refrain from funding, receiving and/or transferring funds or making available anything of value in, to or for the benefit of countries/regions/individuals/groups/entities subject to sanctions;

* refrain from cooperating, or in any way engaging in business activities of any kind with countries/regions/individuals/groups/entities subject to sanctions; and

* refrain from supplying or buying products or services to/from sanctioned countries, regions/individuals/groups/entities unless specifically authorised by Genmab Legal.

How do I ensure that distributors and licensees comply?

As part of Genmab's commitment to conduct business in an ethical, transparent and compliant way, it is essential that Genmab's third party collaborators also comply with International Sanctions and International Export Controls.

We expect that you:

* ensure that distributors and other in scope third parties are subject to a due diligence screening by Genmab Procurement;

* ensure that third parties do not transfer funds or make available anything of value in, to or for the benefit of countries/regions/individuals/groups/entities subject to sanctions, on behalf of Genmab; and

* with support from Genmab Legal ensure to include relevant contract provisions that prevent the distributor or other in scope third parties from selling outside the agreed territory, to sanctioned customers or embargoed countries.

Genmab A/S Kalvebod Brygge 43, DK-1560 Copenhagen V, Denmark

Tel. +45 7020 2728

www.genmab.com[http://www.genmab.com]

CVR no. 2102 3884

Page 4 of 5

Date of Effect: July 2022

Version: 1.0

Non-compliance

Failure by a Genmab Person to comply with his or her obligations under this Policy, may be considered as misconduct and may lead to the institution of a disciplinary sanction, including in case of serious misconduct up to termination of employment.

Policy Governance

The periodic review period for this Policy will be every year or if new developments or regulations require an updated.

Training

Genmab provides training on International Sanctions and International Export controls and application of this Policy to all relevant Genmab Persons on a regular basis.

Genmab Legal shall determine the content of the training and shall ensure that all relevant Genmab Persons complete the training and shall keep adequate and up to date training records on file.

Who should I contact for further guidance?

Any questions regarding the applicability of this Policy to a particular activity should be directed to Genmab Legal (legal@genmab.com[mailto:legal@genmab.com]).

Created June 2022

Genmab A/S Kalvebod Brygge 43, DK-1560 Copenhagen V, Denmark

Tel. +45 7020 2728

www.genmab.com[http://www.genmab.com]

CVR no. 2102 3884

Page 5 of 5

* Original Link[https://ir.genmab.com/static-files/137a3ec5-a9fa-4016-8679-d901bc0c8045]

Disclaimer

Genmab A/S published this content on 18 January 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 18 January 2023 08:50:08 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020230118ej1i008sr


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks Poised for a Mixed Start Ahead of Fed Decision
2130 字
2023 年 2 月 1 日 05:01 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2023, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Manufacturing PMI for eurozone, Germany, France, Italy, UK; EU flash estimate euro area inflation, unemployment; Italy provisional CPI, cities CPI; UK narrow money and reserve balances, nationwide house price index; trading updates from BBVA, Novartis, Galp, GSK, Novo Nordisk, Sberbank, Vodafone Group, Entain, Glencore, Imperial Brands, Ryanair

Opening Call:

Shares could open mixed in Europe on Wednesday. In Asia, stock benchmarks were mostly higher; Treasury yields were mixed; the dollar weakened; while oil advanced and gold retreated.

Equities:

European stocks are set for a mixed start on Wednesday, as investors await the release of eurozone economic data and brace for central bank interest rate decisions this week.

Investors are eager to parse the Federal Reserve's statements at Wednesday's meeting for hints at the future path of policy-the Fed is broadly expected to raise interest rates by a quarter percentage point. Tuesday's data showing that wage gains are cooling buoyed hopes that waning inflation could prompt officials to pause rate increases in the months ahead.

Money managers are tracking corporate earnings for guidance on inflationary pressures facing businesses and their expectations for how the economic backdrop will affect profits.

Meanwhile, the U.K. looks likely to be the only major world economy set to shrink in 2023, doing worse even than sanction-hit Russia, the International Monetary Fund warned in an update.

"Investor sentiment remains uncertain in Europe, with the [domestically focused] FTSE 250 particularly coming under pressure following an IMF report that forecast the UK to be the only nation they covered to contract in 2023," IG said.

Forex:

The dollar was weaker in Asia ahead of the FOMC meeting outcome due later in the day.

Market participants are nervous over a possible hawkish policy surprise from central banks including the Fed this week, said MUFG Bank.

Also, a lot of good news has already been priced into markets on expectations of China's economy reopening more fully, it added.

With a 25-basis-point rate increase well baked in, the FOMC's announcement should be more about the language, Silicon Valley Bank said.

"Stocks are questioning how hawkish FOMC language can be given that we're decelerating." The dollar isn't getting as much of a lift from rates and risk aversion lately, where last year they moved more in lockstep, Silicon Valley Bank said.

"Last year it was all about the Fed and US. This year it's about what's happening overseas and by the way, we're waiting for two big 50 bp increases from the European Central Bank and Bank of England. If that happens the interest rate differential shrinks even more."

---

ING said the pound is at risk of falling ahead of expected 50bp rate rises by the Bank of England and the European Central Bank on Thursday, especially if eurozone inflation data on Wednesday come in strong.

EUR/GBP may hold below 0.8800 until Thursday's decisions, but the upcoming inflation data "mean the balance of risk is tilted to the upside for the pair," ING said.

"The euro... may show more resilience than other G10 peers--especially high-beta currencies--given the shift in the inflation narrative in the eurozone which can surely fuel ECB hawkish speculation."

Bonds:

Treasury yields were mixed ahead of an expected reduction in the pace of interest-rate increases by the Fed.

Investors are watching for Fed Chair Powell's comments after the FOMC meeting. Many analysts expect the Fed to hike only once more, in March, and pivot to cutting later this year. A hawkish Powell may refute that notion and spark a bond selloff, pushing yields higher.

"Powell is expected to strike a hawkish tone which is in contrast to market expectations over the Fed cutting rates near the end of 2023. This means the disconnect between the Fed and markets may add more spice to the pending meeting, as investors seek fresh clues on what to expect from the central bank this year," FXTM said.

Fed officials face a "communications challenge," said High Frequency Economics.

"Policy makers keep repeating a higher-for-longer message on rates, but markets are convinced that the Fed will capitulate as inflation slows and the economy weakens," it said.

"That divide could widen as GDP slows and the markets' conviction that the Fed will ease gets stronger, but the Fed's resolve to bring inflation back to target is not likely to weaken."

Energy:

Oil prices were slightly higher in Asia, recovering from recent losses triggered in part by easing supply concerns amid strong Russian export data.

Galaxy Futures pointed out that investors' risk appetite may be decreasing ahead of the upcoming Fed meeting and guidance from oil producer group OPEC and its allies.

The brokerage expects continued volatility in the near term, as investors weigh the risk of a potential global recession and the supply impact of geopolitical factors.

Commerzbank said "headwind is being generated by generally negative market sentiment ahead of this week's numerous central bank meetings and by the persistently high Russian oil exports."

Meanwhile, "the main driver for oil lately has been the potential for a resurgence of oil demand out of China, which may continue into February considering how Chinese economic momentum picked up in the overnight PMI reports," SIA Wealth Management said.

Metals:

Gold prices nudged lower in Asia, extending a rangebound trading pattern marked in recent sessions, as the precious metal pulled back after soaring gains.

Metals market research firm Metals Focus pointed out that gold's recent rally has mainly been driven by expectations of a potential global recession, which may lead the Fed to slow interest-rate increases and raise gold's risk-reward profile.

But the Fed's hawkish stance may also persist amid recent resilient economic data from the U.S. and continued inflation risk due to geopolitical tensions, it cautioned. The upcoming Fed meeting will be "very important" for investors to monitor, it said.

"Recent dollar strength has derived from the possibility that the central bank may indicate that rates will rise further and remain elevated for longer than previously expected," said ActivTrades.

"This is a scenario that penalizes gold prices, capping any upside generated by lingering recession fears and high inflation, with the dollar assuming the role of preferred refuge asset."

---

Copper edged higher, supported by signs of China's economic rebound.

Data released Tuesday showed China's official gauges measuring services, manufacturing and construction activity all rebounded sharply in January.

Sentiment toward base metals such as copper have been boosted by these data, said ANZ Research.

---

Chinese iron-ore futures rose, as demand was buoyed by optimism over China's economic recovery.

Iron ore reclaimed some of Tuesday's declines, as steelmakers' profits have improved recently and the average daily iron melt output rebounded over the Lunar New Year break, China Shenhua Futures said.

It expects ferrous metals to remain bullish in the short term.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

China Caixin Manufacturing PMI Improves, But Stays in Contraction

A private gauge of China's manufacturing activity improved in January but remained in contractionary territory for the sixth straight month.

The purchasing managers index rose to 49.2 in January from 49.0 in December, according to data released Wednesday by Caixin Media Co. and S&P Global. The 50-mark separates expansion from contraction.

   
 
 
U.S. Says Russia Has Violated Nuclear-Arms Treaty by Blocking Inspections

Russia has violated the New START treaty cutting long-range nuclear arms by refusing to allow on-site inspections and rebuffing Washington's requests to meet to discuss its compliance concerns, the U.S. State Department said in a report sent to Congress on Tuesday.

The State Department's finding that Moscow is in "noncompliance" with the accord marks the first time that the U.S. has accused Russia of violating the treaty, which entered into force in 2011.

   
 
 
Elon Musk Warned About Incoming EU Social-Media Law

BRUSSELS-A top European Union official told Elon Musk on Tuesday that Twitter Inc. will have to do more over the coming months to prepare for the bloc's new social-media regulations.

Thierry Breton, the EU's commissioner for the internal market, told Mr. Musk during a video call that there were only a few months left before major online platforms like Twitter will have to be fully compliant with the Digital Services Act. Mr. Musk has previously said that he intends to comply with the EU's new rules.

   
 
 
Snap Warns of Sales Drop After Revenue Growth Stalls

Snap Inc. warned sales in the current quarter are likely to drop after revenue growth stalled in the final three months of last year, illustrating the difficult market conditions social-media companies are having to navigate.

The Snapchat parent said it generated $1.3 billion in sales in the fourth quarter, roughly flat from the year-earlier period and broadly in line with Wall Street's expectations. The growth figure was the lowest for Snap since going public almost six years ago.

   
 
 
AMD's Profit Plunges Amid Weaker PC Sales

Advanced Micro Devices Inc. reported Tuesday a 98% decline in net income for the fourth quarter as operating expenses more than doubled and sales linked to its PC clients were cut in half.

The Santa Clara, Calif.-based chip maker, whose central processing units are used to build videogame consoles and gaming PCs, said net income for the period fell to $21 million, or 1 cent a share, from $974 million, or 80 cents a share, for the same period a year earlier. The company said the decline was mostly linked to its acquisition of semiconductor company Xilinx Inc.

   
 
 
PayPal to lay off 7% of employees as part of cost-cutting push

1 Feb 2023 00:01 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks Poised for a Mixed -2-

PayPal Holdings Inc. plans to lay off about 7% of its staff as it continues with broader efforts to reduce costs.

Chief Executive Dan Schulman announced the layoffs, which will affect about 2,000 PayPal PYPL employees, in an email to the staff Tuesday afternoon.

   
 
 
Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

   
 
 
FROM FINANCIAL NEWS

Twenty Most Influential in Crypto 2023

The inaugural Financial News list of the Twenty Most Influential in Crypto comes at an inflection point for the industry

Prices crashed in last year's 'crypto winter', leading to some high-profile collapses and lay-offs. Combined with allegations of fraud at crypto exchange FTX, that has given fuel to critics of the sector. But the senior executives on our list are confident the industry can turn things around, as institutional adoption of crypto grows and regulations are put into place. The list is a broad overview of the sector, including senior leaders at asset managers, banks, exchanges, custodians, regulators, blockchain firms and more. >> Read More

A subscription may be required. This content was created by Financial News, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Financial News is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

Expected Major Events for Wednesday

00:01/UK: Jan Shop Price Index

01:01/IRL: Jan Ireland Manufacturing PMI

06:00/NED: Jan Netherlands Manufacturing PMI

07:00/TUR: Jan Turkey Manufacturing PMI

07:00/UK: Jan Nationwide House Price Index

08:00/POL: Jan Poland Manufacturing PMI

08:15/SPN: Jan Spain Manufacturing PMI

08:30/CZE: Jan Czech Republic Manufacturing PMI

08:30/SWI: Jan procure.ch Purchasing Managers' Index

08:45/ITA: Jan Italy Manufacturing PMI

08:50/FRA: Jan France Manufacturing PMI

08:55/GER: Jan Germany Manufacturing PMI

09:00/GRE: Jan Greece Manufacturing PMI

09:00/EU: Jan Eurozone Manufacturing PMI

09:30/UK: Jan S&P Global / CIPS UK Manufacturing PMI

09:30/UK: Jan Narrow money (Notes & Coin) and reserve balances

10:00/CYP: Nov Retail trade

10:00/EU: Dec Unemployment

10:00/DEN: Jan Danish PMI

10:00/EU: Jan Flash Estimate euro area inflation

10:00/ITA: Jan Cities CPI

10:00/ITA: Jan Provisional CPI

10:00/GRE: Dec Labour Force Survey

11:00/IRL: Jan Monthly Unemployment

16:59/AUT: Jan Unemployment figures

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions[https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 01, 2023 00:01 ET (05:01 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020230201ej2100084


EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks May Rise Ahead of Key U.S. Economic Data
2368 字
2023 年 2 月 24 日 05:00 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2023, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

Germany GfK consumer climate survey, GDP; France Consumer confidence survey; trading updates from Holcim, International Consolidated Airlines Group, Evraz, Alliance Trust, SAS, Babcock International Group, Steinhoff International Holdings, MTN Group, BASF, International Consolidated Airlines Group, Land Securities Group

Opening Call:

Shares may open higher in Europe, tracking overnight gains on Wall Street. In Asia, stock benchmarks traded mixed; Treasury yields were also mixed; the dollar weakened slightly; while oil and gold gained.

Equities:

European stocks may advance early Friday, as investor continue to parse economic data and weigh the outlook for future rate increases by the Federal Reserve.

David Russell, vice president of market intelligence at online brokerage TradeStation, said the markets and the Fed are in a "wait and see period" until the release of a slew of February economic data, which is due out ahead of the Fed's March 21-22 meeting, provides a more in-depth glimpse to the state of the economy.

"Nobody really knows if the Fed is nearing the end or needs to get more aggressive again," said Russell.

"I believe that we will have greater clarity on that in the next three to four weeks, because we're going to have [Fed Chair] Jerome Powell in Congress on March 7. We're going to have [February] nonfarm payrolls on the 10th, CPI on the 14th, and then, on March 22, we get the dot plot."

"In the next few months, we think U.S. equities will be trapped between strong but declining demand and a loosening but still tight labor market, " Goldman Sachs Asset Management said.

Meanwhile, market attention today will turn to the U.S. personal-consumption expenditures, or PCE, price index release, the Fed's preferred measure of inflation, along with the University of Michigan's final February read on consumer sentiment.

Michael J. Kramer, founder of Mott Capital Management, said if the month-over-month value comes in as expected, it would suggest that the 3-month annualized trend for PCE rose to 3.35% (Nov., Dec., Jan.) from an annualized 0.9% (Oct., Dec., Jan.). Meanwhile, it is running at a 3.3% annualized from July to January, up from 2.1% annualized over the same 6-month period.

"You can see that while the 3-month and 6-month year-over-year changes are down sharply from where they had been, they are still well above the Fed's target of 2% and show a significant acceleration from the prior running trend," Kramer said in a note.

"While one data point won't panic the Fed, a hot reading in February could. So, if January comes as expected, it likely means that the Fed is taking a step back in achieving its goal."

Forex:

The dollar weakened slightly ahead of key inflation data, as investors try to anticipate the Fed's next move.

The dollar is overvalued and likely to weaken as inflation declines, although it will take time, Bank of America economists said.

"Inflation is likely to imply near-term stability and upside for USD, given low unemployment and inertia for the core. Still, we look for that upside to be more limited," they said.

BofA forecasts the EUR/USD cross to reach 1.05 in the 1H of this year, appreciating to 1.10 by the end of 2023 and 1.15 a year later, "still below the long-term equilibrium of 1.20-1.25."

"Geopolitics will continue to linger, and the well-telegraphed debt ceiling showdown lurks," they added.

Bonds:

U.S. Treasury yields were mixed as economic indicators continue to show resilience and ahead of PCE inflation data.

"Investors have ramped up their expectations for the near-term path of the fed-funds rate amid talk of 'higher for longer'. But long-run expectations for the policy rate have already climbed significantly. If anything, we think this move may be overdone," said Capital Economics.

Markets are pricing in a 73% probability that the Fed will raise interest rates by another 25 basis points to a range of 4.75% to 5% on March 22, according to the CME FedWatch tool.

Meanwhile, the chance of a 50-basis-point hike is 27%, up from 1.3% a month ago.

The central bank is still mostly expected to take its fed-funds rate target to at least between 5.25% and 5.5% by June, according to 30-day fed funds futures. About a month ago, the "terminal" rate was seen at around 4.9%.

Energy:

Oil futures rose in Asia, extending overnight gains.

Reports that Russia will cut oil exports from its western ports by 25% on month in March were helping support prices, though this has yet to be confirmed by the Russian energy ministry, CBA said.

"While it looks possible for Europe to find alternatives to Russian oil and diesel imports, oil markets can still tighten later this year by Russian-led supply disruptions and increasing demand from China and India," it added.

The Russia-Ukraine war was a great market driver in 2022, and will be in 2023 as well, but there are "additional drivers the market is focusing on for 2023: China's reopening and dynamics of OPEC+ relations between Saudi Arabia and Russia," said Jim Burkhard, vice president and head of crude oil market and energy and mobility research at S&P Global Commodity Insights.

"Government intervention in the oil market, particularly by the U.S., could again have an impact as it did in 2022."

Metals:

Gold gained early Friday, after their lowest year-to-date finish overnight.

"Looking ahead, there is reason to believe that the U.S. dollar could maintain leadership in the FX space, at least for some time, creating headwinds for both the euro and precious metals," said DailyFX.

Strength in the USD is likely to be supported by continued rise in the U.S. Treasury yields in response to the Fed's assertive actions in its fight to restore price stability, it added.

The minutes "confirmed what last week's strong inflation data already told us: we're stuck with higher interest rates and a strong dollar -- a structural headwind for our commodity markets," analysts at Peak Trading Research said.

"It will probably take confirmation that the economy is slowing down faster before prices can muster up a meaningful rally," Oanda added.

---

Copper prices gained in a likely technical rebound after sliding overnight on the back of a strong USD.

There could be further upside to copper prices in 2H, said BofA.

Housing in China should add to demand by the year-end, while the country's power grid is looking to quicken the installation of renewables, so fundamentals and prices are poised to strengthen through 2H, it added.

---

Chinese iron-ore futures rose on expectations of stronger demand.

Steel mills in China are preparing for a busier construction period, with stimulus measures boosting activity, ANZ Research analysts said.

Steel output has also risen around 6% since early February, the analysts added, citing Mysteel, a commodity service provider in China.

   
 
 
TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Bank of Japan Governor Nominee Predicts Inflation Rate Will Fall Soon

TOKYO-Japan's core inflation rate hit a four-decade high of 4.2% in January, but the nominee to lead the Bank of Japan said he expected it to fall and didn't think an interest-rate increase was needed.

Core consumer prices-which Japan defines as all prices excluding fresh food-rose at the fastest pace since September 1981 but came in slightly below the consensus forecast. It was the 10th consecutive month that inflation exceeded the Bank of Japan's 2% target.

   
 
 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Improved by More Than Expected in February

U.K. consumer confidence improved more than expected in February, a sign of strength even as households continue to feel the pinch from high inflation and climbing interest rates.

Research firm GfK said its consumer-confidence barometer rose to minus 38 in February from minus 45 in January, the highest reading since April and more than reversing a dip last month.

   
 
 
Biden to Nominate Former Mastercard Executive Ajay Banga to Lead World Bank

President Biden intends to nominate Ajay Banga, the former chief executive officer of Mastercard Inc., to serve as president of the World Bank, moving swiftly to fill a vacancy atop an institution the U.S. is pushing to overhaul.

As the largest shareholder in the World Bank, the U.S. typically selects the leader of the institution, a post that doesn't require Senate confirmation, though the bank's board will need to officially appoint Mr. Banga. The board of the World Bank said on Wednesday it would begin accepting nominees before interviewing a shortlist of candidates, with the aim of selecting a new leader by early May. It couldn't be determined if any other country will submit a nominee.

   
 
 
U.N. Nations Call for Russia to Exit Ukraine as War Nears One-Year Mark

United Nations members called on Russia to withdraw from Ukraine, approving the latest U.S.-backed effort to pressure Moscow a year after the invasion-but also showing the limits of global support for Kyiv.

Thursday's resolution drew the support of 141 member countries, with seven countries voting against the measure and 32 abstaining, a similar outcome to previous resolutions related to the war.

   
 
 
China Urges End to Ukraine War, Calls for Peace Talks

China restated its calls for peace talks to end the war in Ukraine, seeking to cast itself as a neutral mediator in a one-year-old conflict in which Beijing has struggled to balance maintaining its close partnership with Moscow and further inflaming tensions with the West.

In a 12-point document issued Friday morning in Beijing, China's Foreign Ministry outlined what it called "China's Position on the Political Settlement of the Ukraine Crisis," using its preferred label for the war that Russia launched with its invasion a year ago.

   
 
 
Russia Plans to Deploy New Nuclear Missiles

MOSCOW-Russian President Vladimir Putin said he plans to deploy Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missiles this year, as Moscow touts its nuclear might against a backdrop of setbacks with its conventional forces in Ukraine.

24 Feb 2023 00:00 ET EMEA Morning Briefing: Stocks May Rise Ahead of -2-

"As before, we will pay increased attention to strengthening the nuclear triad," Mr. Putin said in an address marking a national holiday in Russia that honors the country's armed forces. Russia's nuclear arsenal includes air, land and sea delivery systems.

   
 
 
Oman Opens Airspace to Israeli Planes

Oman cleared the way on Thursday for Israeli planes to fly over its airspace, ending a decadeslong ban that indicates a further thawing of ties between Israel and Arab nations that have long refused to openly embrace the Jewish nation.

In a short statement that didn't explicitly mention Israel, Oman's Civil Aviation Authority said it was opening its airspace to all airlines that meet the country's regulations.

   
 
 
Israel's Tech Industry Rebels Against Netanyahu's Judicial Overhaul

TEL AVIV-Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is clashing with the country's powerful technology industry over a plan to overhaul the judiciary that companies fear will lead to a rollback of civil rights and an unchecked rightward political turn that will scare away investment and talent.

Tech executives and employees have joined tens of thousands of other largely secular Israelis protesting legislation Mr. Netanyahu began advancing this week that would allow a simple parliamentary majority to override Israel's Supreme Court, limit its jurisdiction and give ruling coalitions the power to appoint judges. Some tech companies say they are moving cash out of Israel and incorporating new businesses elsewhere as protective measures in the event that the laws cause an economic downturn.

   
 
 
Justice Department Says Google Destroyed Evidence Related to Antitrust Lawsuit

WASHINGTON-The Justice Department said Google destroyed written records needed for an antitrust lawsuit that focuses on how the company preserved its dominance in internet search.

The government asked a federal judge Thursday to sanction Google for its past practice of setting employee chats to auto-delete, despite the company having told the court it would preserve records required for litigation. Google employees routinely discussed "substantive and sensitive business" using an instant-messaging product that was set to delete chats after 24 hours, the Justice Department said.

   
 
 
Boeing Halts 787 Dreamliner Jet Deliveries Due to Documentation Issue

Boeing Co. has halted deliveries of 787 Dreamliner jets because of a documentation issue, according to the Federal Aviation Administration.

The plane maker hasn't handed over a Dreamliner since Jan. 26 from the production line or from the dozens stored awaiting delivery, said aviation-data provider Ascend by Cirium. Boeing last week said it had paused assembly of new jets.

   
 
 
Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

   
 
 
Expected Major Events for Friday

00:01/UK: Feb UK Consumer Confidence Survey

00:01/UK: Jan UK monthly automotive manufacturing figures

07:00/GER: Mar GfK consumer climate survey

07:00/DEN: Jan Retail Sales Index

07:00/GER: 4Q GDP - Detailed breakdown

07:30/HUN: Jan Employment & unemployment

07:45/FRA: Feb Consumer confidence survey

08:00/CZE: Feb Business cycle survey (consumer/business confidence)

08:00/SPN: Jan PPI

08:00/SWE: Feb Monthly Business Tendency Survey

08:00/SWE: Feb Consumer Tendency Survey

09:00/AUT: Feb Austria Manufacturing PMI

09:00/ICE: Jan PPI

10:00/CRO: Jan PPI

10:00/LUX: Dec Trade

10:00/CYP: Dec Industrial Production Index

15:59/UKR: Jan PPI

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions[https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 24, 2023 00:00 ET (05:00 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020230224ej2o000fw


Rockwool investigated by Danish authorities over potential EU sanction breaches
299 字
2023 年 2 月 28 日 10:11 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2023 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
COPENHAGEN, Feb 28 (Reuters) - Rockwool is under investigation over a potential breach of European Union sanctions, Danish authorities said on Tuesday, following a media report that alleged the insulation maker's products were used in Russian military equipment.

A report by investigative media outlet Danwatch last week outlined several examples of Rockwool's products being used in military projects commissioned by the Russian defence ministry between 2015 and 2020, including in the making of Russian warships.

"The Danish Business Authority can confirm that the agency will investigate the concrete circumstances," the agency said in a statement to Reuters on Tuesday, referring to the report by Danwatch.

A Rockwool spokesman said the company had not been contacted by the agency regarding the matter.

"We fully respect all sanctions applicable at any given time," the spokesman said.

The company's products are widely available on the Russian market through distributors, making it "impossible for us to know or have any control over who all the end-users might be", he said.

Shares in Rockwool fell more than 12% on Tuesday and were trading 7.4% lower by 0951 GMT.

Following Russia's invasion of Ukraine a year ago, the company said it would keep doing business in Russia, where it has four factories and employs 1,200 people.

The European Union has imposed several sanction packages against Russia since its illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, including bans on exporting defence equipment to Russia and on goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes.

If the Business Authority finds indications of wrongdoing, it can report Rockwool to the police.

(Reporting by Nikolaj Skydsgaard; editing by Jacob Gronholt-Pedersen and Jason Neely)

Released: 2023-2-28T11:11:59.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020230228ej2s023m9


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russia-Ukraine war LIVE: Putin's government warns it will "take measures" to prevent Ukrainian incursions
4259 字
2023 年 3 月 3 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Russian government assured Friday that it will "take measures" to prevent

Ukrainian incursions, after denouncing on Thursday an "infiltration" of

Ukrainian "saboteurs" into a Russian region bordering Ukraine.

LIVENews in Development03.03

.2023 08:55

08:

55Kiev orders mandatory evacuation of areas retaken from Russians in KharkivAphoto provided by the Ukrainian presidential press service shows damaged buildings in the recently retaken town of Izyum in the Kharkiv area. Photo EFE.The

Ukrainiangovernment ordered the mandatory evacuation of several towns and settlements in the Kharkiv region (east), in view of the approaching Russian shelling in some areas that were already controlled by the Russian Army at the beginning of the invasion

.Andriy Kanashevich, acting head of the military administration of the Kupyansk district, one of the localities of Kharkov, confirmed this order in statements reported by the National Public Broadcasting Company of Ukraine (Suspilne).

In the Kupyansk district, the mandatory evacuation of ten settlements of the Vilkhuvat community, as well as of all nearby communities of Dvorichan and Petropavlovsk, was announced, the military official specified.

03.03.2023 08:14

08:14

Giving more weapons to Ukraine will only prolong the conflict, says Russia German Chancellor Olaf Scholz (R) and Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan. EFE photo.Further arms deliveries by Western countries would only "prolong" the conflict in Ukraine, the Kremlin warned Friday ahead of a meeting in Washington between U.S. President Joe Biden and German government chief Olaf Sholz

."We note that the United States is continuing its policy of increasing arms deliveries to Ukraine and persuading its protégés to do the same," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said when asked about the planned meeting between Biden and Scholz.

03.03.2023 07:30

07:

30Russia says it will "take measures" to preventUkrainianincursionsRussianpresidential press secretary Dmitry Peskov. EUTERS photo/Evgenia NovozheninaTheRussian government assured on Friday that it "will take measures" to prevent

Ukrainianincursions, after denouncing on Thursday an "infiltration" of

Ukrainian"saboteurs" into a Russian region bordering Ukraine

.The authorities "will take measures to prevent such events from occurring in the future," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov assured reporters, adding that "conclusions will be drawn after the investigation" into the alleged incursion in the Bryansk region.

03.03.2023 05:46

05:46

Ukrainianarmy will leave Bakhmut only if "absolutely necessary "The

Ukrainianarmy has assured that its troops have the option to withdraw from the eastern town of Bakhmut in the Donetsk region, where they are engaged in heavy fighting with Russian troops, but such a decision will only be taken if "absolutely necessary.""As long as the command sees that it makes sense to hold a certain settlement, it will be fought for," Eastern Operational Command spokesman Serhiy Cherevaty told local Ukrainian television. The strategic town of Bakhmut has been, for weeks, the epicenter of the fighting between Ukrainians and Russians, since the control of the area would allow the Moscow Army to gain a corridor in eastern Ukraine through which it could safely transport troops and material.In this area also operates the group called Wagner, a mercenary unit linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin, which is the main assault force that the Kremlin counts on.?For now,

Ukrainianforces cling "heroically" to the largely destroyed city, even "as Russia intensifies its deadly attack"

03.03.2023 04:17

04:

17

Ukraine reported Russian casualties since the start of the war03.03.2023 02:43

02

:43Ukraine: 40.000 people received state awards for their "bravery""As of today, the number of our defenders whose bravery and efficiency have been recognized with state awards exceeds 40,000," assured President of Ukraine Volodimir Zelensky.

02.03.2023 23:53

23

:53"The war between Ukraine and Russia is not good for anyone" Brazilian President Inacio Lula da Silva said through his social networks after having a video call with his

Ukrainiancounterpart Volodimir Zelensky.

"Brazil will participate in any effort for peace", he said and added: "I hope that there will be no more deaths and that a policy of dialogue can be established".

02.03.2023 22:12

22:

12Two arrested in U.S., accused of exporting aviation technology to Russia The U.S. government today reported the arrest of two citizens accused of illegally exporting aviation technology to Russia for years, even after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

The detainees were identified as Cyril Buyanovsky and Douglas Robertson, both natives of the state of Kansas, the Justice Department said in a statement.

02.03.2023 20:51

20:51

Kiev thanks the support of the "hundreds of millions of hearts" supporting Ukraine "Hundreds of millions of hearts of the free world are beating along with a nation for which Freedom is the highest value. A value for which the best representatives of this nation lay down their lives. From cities to villages, wherever your heart beats, we feel them," reads the publication of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine.

The text is accompanied by a photo of a street in England, filled with flags of both countries.

02.03.2023 19:58

19:

58U.S. to announce new military assistance package for Ukraine According to the coordinator of the U.S. National Security Council, John Kirby, the new aid will be announced this Friday.

"It will include mainly ammunition and munitions that the

Ukrainianswill need for the systems they already have, such as HIMARS and artillery," the official told the press.

02.03.2023 19:08

19:08

Zelenski thanked Switzerland for "the support package" "I had my first call with the new president of Switzerland, Alain Berset. I thanked for the support package worth CHF 114 million. We discussed joint projects, in which both countries are interested, and also spent time on practical issues of implementation of the Peace Formula," the

Ukrainianleader wrote on his social networks

.02.03.2023 19:03

19:

03

The Moldovan parliament adopts a statement condemning Russian aggression against Ukraine The statement considers Russia's actions in Ukraine as war crimes and a gross violation of international law, and urges Russia to withdraw its forces from all of Ukraine.

02.03.2023 18:21

18

:21F1: sanctions lifted against Russian driver Mazepin, who could race in Europe Nikita Mazepin was dismissed by the Haas team from Formula 1.The president of the Court of the European Union on Wednesday published an injunction suspending part of the Ukraine war-related sanctions imposed against Russian driver Nikita Mazepin, which would allow him a return to Formula 1, one of his lawyers told AFP on Thursday

.This emergency injunction, issued pending a decision on the merits of the case, allows Mazepin to travel to EU territory to sign a contract with a team and subsequently compete in any motor racing discipline, including Formula 1, on European soil.

Nikita Mazepin was fired from the Haas F1 team after the Russian invasion of Ukraine and in March 2022 became part of a list of Russian personalities sanctioned by the EU.

02.03.2023 18:15

18:

15They claim that Russian torture chambers in Kherson "are not random but part of a carefully thought-out plan" Since Kherson's release on November 11, 2022, a team of

Ukrainianand international lawyers has investigated more than 20 torture chambers

."The mass torture chambers, funded by the Russian state, are not random, but part of a carefully thought out and funded plan with the clear aim of eliminating

Ukrainiannational and cultural identity," said British lawyer Wayne Jordash of the Global Rights Compliance Foundation.

02.03.2023 18:

0218:02 18:02

US defends maintaining contacts with Russia like that of Blinken and Lavrov The US on Thursday defended the importance of maintaining direct contacts with Russia to express its positions, such as the brief meeting that Secretary of State Antony Blinken had with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in India

.The two met Thursday for the first time since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, in a brief eight-minute encounter in which Blinken conveyed U.S. support for Ukraine to Lavrov and urged Russia to remain in the New START anti-nuclear treaty and to release American Paul Whelan.

"We are not naive enough to believe that the brief meeting between Secretary Blinken and Foreign Minister Lavrov will change Russia's behavior, but it was important for the Russian Federation to listen to us," State Department spokesman Ned Price told a news conference.

02.03.2023 17:49

17:49

5,000 people, including 37 children, reported to remain in Bakhmut Donetsk Oblast Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said that most of the remaining residents refuse to leave their homes.

Despiteongoing heavy battles in Bakhmut, evacuation operation continues.

02.03.2023 17:39

17:39

Zelenski thanked Lula for his support Following his communication with his Brazilian counterpart, the

Ukrainianleader thanked him for supporting the UN resolution and said that they chatted about "the importance of defending the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity of states"

.02.03.2023 17:08

17:

08Biden to receive European Commission President on March 10, says White House U. S. President Joe Biden will receive European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Friday, March 10, the White House announced Thursday in a statement

.According to the same source, the two leaders will discuss support for Ukraine in the war with Russia, the climate crisis, energy supplies to Europe and how to deal with "the challenges posed by China".

"They will discuss strong cooperation between the United States and the European Union to support Ukraine" and "sanction Russia", the text specifies.

02.03.2023 16:58

16:58

IAEA announces successful rotation of experts at the Zaporiyia nuclear power plant The Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Argentine Rafael Grossi, said today that the rotation of the agency's experts at

Ukraine's strategic Zaporiyia nuclear power plant was

successfully completed."I am pleased to announce the successful completion of the delayed rotation of the IAEA Support and Assistance Mission to Zaporiyia, now at the Zaporiyia plant is our sixth team of IAEA experts. I thank our staff for their professionalism, courage and commitment, and the efforts of all involved," Grossi wrote on his Twitter account.

Healso announced that this week the IAEA expert rotation will take place at three other nuclear power plants in Ukraine.

02.03.2023 16:48

16:

48Lula talks with Zelenski and offers willingness to organize negotiating table Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva talked today by video call with his

Ukrainian counterpart, Volodimir Zelenski, in the framework of the former metallurgical trade unionist's call for neutral countries to facilitate a negotiating table to stop the war between Russia and Ukraine

.This was reported by the Brazilian presidency through Lula's Twitter profile:

"I had a video meeting with the president of Ukraine. I reaffirmed Brazil's desire to talk with other countries and participate in any initiative around peace building and dialogue. War cannot be interesting for anyone", informed the Brazilian president.

02.03.2023 16:15

16:15

Lula says he will talk to Zelenski andPutinBrazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva said Thursday that he will communicate with his

Ukrainiancolleague, Volodimir Zelenski, and also intends to talk to Russian President Vladimir Putin, to whom he will present a project to initiate a peace process in the war that began a year ago with the Russian invasion

."I am going to talk to Zelenski to create a G20 to discuss peace, the United States and Europe are putting money (to finance the war) and there is no one talking about peace. Brazil is positioning itself to discuss peace," said the president.

"I will talk to Zelenski and if necessary I will talk to Putin," he said in a section of an interview granted to Band News radio, which will be broadcast in full later.

According to the news portal UOL, the communication between Lula andZelenski could happen this Thursday.

02.03.2023 15:45

15:45

Four killed by mine explosion in KharkovThegovernor of the

Ukrainianoblast of Kharkov, Oleh Syniehubov, reported that four men traveling by car near the town of Spivakivka were killed by the explosion of an anti-tank mine.

The four victims, who died on the spot, were aged 21, 39, 43, and 54.

02.03.2023 15:17

15:17

Russia insists on returning to the HR Council and announces its candidacyRussiaon Thursday repeated its intention to return to the UN Human Rights Council, from which it was expelled in April due to its invasion of Ukraine, for which it announced that it will present its candidacy to the election of the members of this body in October

.In a vote at the UN General Assembly, Russia's participation in the Council was suspended, but since then it has remained very active in this body, where for now it has the right to speak - like all UN member states - but not to vote.

Speaking in person at the Council, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Riabkov said that his country's suspension was achieved through "unprecedented political pressure and economic blackmail" allegedly exerted by Western countries on smaller countries

. "And despite the pressure against Russia, we intend to present our candidacy at the next election of Council members," he added.

02.03.2023 14:57

14:57

Austria proposed as mediator between Ukraine and RussiaThe outgoing president of the Czech Republic, Social Democrat Milos Zeman, said Thursday that neighboring Austria could act as a mediator between Ukraine and Russia

."Austria's neutrality may, in certain contexts, allow this country to play a mediating role in the case of Ukraine and Russia," Zeman said during a meeting in Prague with his Austrian counterpart, Alexander Van der Bellen.

The Austrian leader, whose country has been militarily neutral since 1955, stressed that this status "does not mean (being) indifferent," as it shares with its European Union (EU) partners "political values."

According to Van der Bellen, the war in Ukraine "is a clear violation of international law," also because of "documented crimes in undermining the sovereignty of a country. "

02.03.2023 14:24

14:

24Blinken to Lavrov: 'End this war'At a press conference following their brief meeting, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he urged his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov to get Russia to end its offensive in Ukraine.

Blinken asked Lavrov to commit to a peace process. Photo: AP/Altaf Qadri."End this war of aggression, commit to diplomacy that can produce a just and lasting peace," Blinken said he had told his Russian counterpart

. Lavrov, who did not mention having spoken to Blinken, told reporters that Moscow will press ahead with its offensive in Ukraine and denied claims by the U.S. and its allies that Russia has been isolated by the invasion

."They are asking us to have talks, but I don't remember any Western colleagues asking Ukraine to have talks," he said

. On the contrary, "they are encouraging Ukraine to continue the war," he said, Russian news agency Tass reported.

02.03.2023 13:55

13:55

Russia says it found "a lot of explosives" in Bryansk after UkrainianraidTheRussian Federal Security Service (FSB) on Thursday reported finding a large number of explosives in the Bryansk region on the border with Ukraine after a raid by "

Ukrainiansaboteurs. "

The FSB said in a statement that its agents are currently inspecting the area where the

Ukrainians aresaid to have gone inside. "A large number of explosive devices of various types have been found and demining work is being carried out," adds the note, quoted by the Interfax agency.

The security service also confirmed that as a result of the incident, described as a "terrorist attack" by the Russian authorities, two men were killed and an 11-year-old boy was wounded. Currently the situation in Bryansk is "under control", he concluded.

02.03.2023 13:27

13:

27Blinken asks Lavrov to get Russia to sign the START nuclear treatyU.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday asked his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, to sign the "New START" treaty, the only one to reduce nuclear weapons.between the two countries that Vladimir Putin broke off last month.

U.S. media such as The Washington Post offered details of the meeting between Blinken and his counterpart, who held a brief conversation on the sidelines of the G20 ministerial meeting in New Delhi, the first face-to-face meeting between them since the Ukraine war began.

02.03.2023 12:59

12:59

Head of Wagner group releases video of Russian mercenaries near center of BakhmutThehead of the Wagner mercenary group, Yevgeny Prigozhin, on Thursday released a video with troops of his private army near the center of the eastern Ukrainian town of Bakhmut, besieged by Russian troops for seven months.

"The guys are playing, filming home videos. This morning they brought (the footage) from Bajmut, practically from the center of the city," he said on his Telegram account.

In the video, four fighters can be seen on a half-destroyed roof of a building with a black flag of the Wagner formation and imitating the recording of a music video clip, with two guitars and a trombone, and the allegorical soundtrack of the Russian private army.

02.03.2023 12:30

12:

30"Russian Volunteer Corps" group claims responsibility for attack in BryanskAgroup called the "Russian Volunteer Corps," which describes itself as a formation of Russian volunteers that is part of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, claimed responsibility Thursday for an attack in the Russian region of Bryansk on the Ukrainian border

."The Russian Volunteer Corps arrived in the Bryansk region to show their compatriots that there is hope, that the free Russian people with weapons in hand can fight the regime," the group said on its Telegram account alongside a video in which they are allegedly standing in front of a post office and infirmary in Liubechane, next to the Ukrainian border.

Another fighter of the group confirmed to the independent Russian portal "Important Stories" that 45 men of the "Russian Volunteer Corps" infiltrated into Russian territory and ambushed two armored infantry vehicles.

02.03.2023 11:55

11

:55 Ukraine: allegation of attack is a "classic provocation "The

Ukrainianpresidency called Russian accusations of an attack on its territory a "deliberate provocation" that seeks to "frighten its population in order to justify" its offensive against Ukraine

."The story about the

Ukrainiansabotage group in Russia is a classic deliberate provocation," Mikhail Podoliak, an adviser to

the Ukrainianpresidency, wrote on hisTwitter account

."Russia wants to scare its population to justify the attack on another country and the growing poverty after a year of war" in Ukraine, he added.

02.03.2023 11:42

11:42

Russia says US helped in alleged UkrainiandroneattacksRussian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Riabkov said Thursday that drone attacks on Russian military bases attributed to Ukraine could not have been executed without US help.

Satellite image of the Russian air base in the Saratov region. Photo: Maxar Technologies/via Reuters.Riabkov, who is in Geneva to address the UN Human Rights Council and the Conference on Disarmament, said the United States handed over intelligence data.

"Some time ago, Kiev launched drone attacks against bases of our aircraft in the Saratov region and in Ryazan," he told a news conference

."We know that these attacks would never have been possible without thorough and sophisticated U.S. assistance to the

Ukrainianmilitary, including targeting, no doubt, providing intelligence and technical assistance," he said.

02.03.2023 11:08

11

:08China and Russia do not sign final G20 statementChinajoined Russia in refusing to sign the final statement of the Group of 20 foreign ministers' meeting in India, which calls on Moscow to cease hostilities in Ukraine.

The Russian and Chinese foreign ministers shared their position on the final document of the meeting in New Delhi. Photo:EFE/Russian Foreign Ministry Press Service.The two countries were the only G20 members not to endorse the statement, which called for Russia's "complete and unconditional withdrawal from the territory of Ukraine. "

02.03.2023 10:32

10:

32

Blinken and Lavrov hold brief meeting at G20 summitLavrovand Blinken met privately in a break from the G20 foreign ministers' meeting. Photo:AP/Manish Swarup.U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov met briefly Thursday at a G20 foreign ministers' summit in India, in the first high-level meeting between the two countries in months.

According to U.S. officials, Blinken and Lavrov chatted for about 10 minutes on a break from the G20 meeting. The brief meeting coincides with the cooling of the relationship between Washington and Moscow and rising tensions over Russia's war in Ukraine.

A senior U.S. official - who spoke about the private conversation on condition of anonymity - indicated that Blinken used the opportunity to make three points to Lavrov: that the United States will back Ukraine for as long as it takes to end the war, that Russia should reverse its decision to suspend its participation in the New START nuclear treaty and that Moscow should release Paul Whelan, who is detained in the country

.While declining to describe the Russian official's response, the source commented that Blinken did not get the impression that Russia's attitude will change in the short term.

02.03.2023 10:04

10:

04Putin calls Ukrainianraid in Bryansk a "terrorist attack "Russian President Vladimir Putin called the raid by "

Ukrainiansaboteurs" in Bryansk, near the Ukrainian border, which allegedly killed at least one civilian, a "terrorist attack"

."Today they carried out a new terrorist attack, a new crime," Putin said during an online conference with Russian educators and tutors

. The president said that "Ukrainian saboteurs broke into the border territories and opened fire on civilians. They saw that it was a civilian vehicle, in which civilians were traveling, and opened fire.

"It is precisely people like these who aim to deprive us of our historical memory, our history, our traditions and our language," he warned.

02.03.2023 09:38

09:38

Russia alleges Ukraine launched cross-borderattackRussian

officialsaccused

Ukrainiansaboteurs on Thursday of penetrating into western Russia and attacking local villages, but Ukraine rejected the accusation and said it was a Russian pretext to escalate its attacks.

The exact circumstances of the reported incident in the Bryansk region were unclear, as was what the strategic purpose of such an attack would be. The announcement itself caused concern that Russian authorities would use it to retaliate with greater attacks.

If confirmed, it would be another indication, following the drone strikes earlier in the week, that Kiev could be taking the fighting into Russian territory, exposing its rival's defensive weakness, embarrassing the Kremlin and sowing unrest among the Russian population.

02.03.2023 09:10

09:

10Russian flag painted on the base of Copenhagen's Little Mermaid sculpturePeoplepose for a photo with the smashed Little Mermaid statue, with the Russian flag painted on the stone where it sits, in Copenhagen. Photo EFE.The Little Mermaid sculpture, which is a symbol of Copenhagen and Denmark, was vandalized on Wednesday night and dawned with a Russian flag painted on its base.

Danish police announced that they opened an investigation, without mentioning any clues about this act that suggests support for Russia in the context of the war in Ukraine

. Under a bright sun, some tourists photographed Thursday morning the statue. Since 1913, the bronze sculpture of the Little Mermaid sitting on a rock in the bay of the Danish capital, represents the character from a fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen.

02.03.2023 08:27

08:

27Russian attack onUkrainianresidential building leaves 3 deadUkrainianemergency servicesfirefightersinspect a house damaged after Russian shelling, in Zaporiyia, Ukraine, March 2, 2023. AP Photo Photo/Kateryna Klochko.Three people were killed and six others injured Thursday after a Russian missile hit a five-story apartment building in Zaporiyia, a city in southeastern Ukraine, police said

.The projectile destroyed several floors of the property in the early hours of the morning, Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky said.

At the moment, the State Emergency Service rescued 11 people, the department said in an online statement.

02.03.2023 07:45

07:

45Russia is not willing to accept joint G20 statementForeignMinister Jose Manuel Albares speaks during an event as part of the FITUR 2022 International Tourism Fair. EFE/ ChemaMoyaSpanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares said Thursday that the G20 meeting in India is unlikely to achieve a joint statement, following comments made by his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov

."After the speech of the Russian Foreign Minister, I don't think Russia is ready to accept a joint statement," Albares told journalists.

02.03.2023 07:20

07:

20Russia and China denounce at the G20 "blackmail and threats" from Western countriesAphoto provided by the press service of the Russian Foreign Ministry shows Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. EFE photo.The foreign ministers of Russia and China on Thursday accused Western countries of using "blackmail and threats" to impose their views, according to Russian diplomacy.

At a meeting on the sidelines of the G20 in New Delhi, Russian Minister Sergei Lavrov and Chinese Minister Qin Gang "unanimously rejected attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries, to impose unilateral approaches through blackmail and threats," Russian diplomacy said in a statement

.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230303ej330070d


Denmark: Rockwool says it has complied with EU sanctions against Russia
73 字
2023 年 3 月 6 日
ESMERK / M-Brain News from Denmark
ESMDA
英文
Copyright M-Brain Insight Oy
Børsen, 06 Mar 2023- Danish insulation materials supplier Rockwool states in a reply to the Danish Business Authority (Erhvervsstyrelsen) that it has complied and will continue to comply with any Russian-related sanction. Rockwool's reply is a response to the investigation initiated by the Authority into the company for possible breaches of the EU sanctions against Russia regarding dual-use products.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMDA00020230307ej360000h


Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S - Chair's report 2023
Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S published this content on 08 Mar 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 09 Mar 2023 14:03:34 UTC.
3363 字
2023 年 3 月 8 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/D508AB63749A903BF121E73BD81033AA14688BA8]

Chair's report 2023

NORDEN's Annual General Meeting on 9 March 2023 - Chair's report

Welcome

Welcome to this year's annual general meeting of NORDEN. I am pleased to welcome both the shareholders present here in the audience and all the shareholders who follow online, as we again this year use a so-called 'hybrid' format, whereby you participate either physically or electronically. And it is nice to see so many people have decided to come.

Today's programme is slightly different than normally, and will be divided into two parts. The first part will be the holding of the annual general meeting, followed by a very short break, and then the Company's Management will give a brief presentation of NORDEN's business areas and strategy. Finally, we will offer food and drinks, and shareholders present here will have the opportunity to meet and ask questions to the representatives from NORDEN.

NORDEN is today represented by its Executive Management, i.e. CEO Jan Rindbo and CFO Martin Badsted. Representing NORDEN's Board of Directors is Vice Chair Johanne Riegels Østergaard and board members Karsten Knudsen, Robert Hvide Macleod, Christina Lerchedal Christensen, Henrik Røjel and Stine Maria Gøttrup, in addition to myself as Chair of the Board.

As Chair of the meeting, the Board of Directors has elected Henning Aasmul-Olsen, who has also chaired the past many annual general meetings. I now hand over to Henning.

Development for the year

2022 was a highly eventful year with two extremely volatile markets for dry cargo and product tankers, which both turned 180 degrees during the year. This happened in conjunction with a global value chain that was exposed to a recalibration of supply and demand in the wake of the war in Ukraine. Not many physical markets are as fluctuating and volatile as the two markets we at NORDEN operate in. And we saw many examples of this throughout 2022.

On the other hand, it is precisely this fluctuating nature that NORDEN has increasingly positioned its business towards in recent years. When market dynamics change - not just from year to year - but from week to week, it is crucial to have a flexible business that is able to adapt and take advantage of these market fluctuations. This is exactly what NORDEN was able to do in 2022, and which made it possible to generate record-high annual results in the history of the Company of as much as USD 744 million, equivalent to DKK 5.2 billion - and a return on equity of 64%.

Proposed dividend

Owing to the record-high results for 2022, the Board of Directors proposes to distribute DKK 30 per share, which will be added to the DKK 60 per share already distributed during 2022 after the second and third quarters, respectively. With the proposal, total NORDEN dividends for 2022 will amount to DKK 90 per share. This corresponds to 57% of the profit for the year and constitutes approx. USD 424 million, or almost DKK 3 billion, in total dividends for the year.

Group results

If we take a closer look at the results obtained during the year, NORDEN achieved, as mentioned, a profit for the year of USD 744 million. This is an increase of 263% since 2021, which was also a good year for NORDEN. The results correspond to earnings per share of approx. DKK 150 per share.

With the large increase in profit, cash flows from operating activities also rose significantly. This item landed at as much as USD 1.3 billion. Especially worth highlighting is NORDEN's increased level of cash and cash equivalents as well as securities. At the end of 2022, the Company had USD 842 million in cash and cash equivalents as well as securities, or nearly DKK 6 billion, which is twice as much as the previous year. The high liquidity amount also means that the Company actually has a higher cash position than interest-

NORDEN's Annual General Meeting on 9 March 2023 - Chair's report

bearing debt and lease obligations, which in aggregate totalled USD 815 million. Therefore, the financial statements will show that this year's "Net interest-bearing debt" is actually positive as cash and cash equivalents exceed debt by USD 28 million.

The strong results for the year also had a positive impact on our equity and thus equity ratio. With equity rising to USD 1.3 billion, corresponding to DKK 9.4 billion, the equity ratio increased to 48% compared to 41% at the end of 2021. Return on investment improved noticeably to 54% compared to 17% the year before. There was also a noticeable increase in return on equity, which increased to 64% compared to 22% the year before.

With the figures shown, I can say with certainty that the financial position of NORDEN is very strong and that it enables the Company to return capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buy- backs.

Results achieved by the two business units

Moving on to the healthy development of the Company's two business units, I will start by outlining the market conditions that emerged during 2022. We saw a dry cargo market that continued its strong path in early 2022, only to gradually decline significantly from the middle of the second quarter. This decrease was driven by diminishing bottlenecks in ports following the COVID-19 pandemic, a less favourable effect from the container market as, during this period, our small vessels carried cargoes, which had previously been containerised, and generally lower Chinese activity. Conversely, the product tanker market was weak to begin with, as it had been through 2021, but with the very low oil stocks resulting from previous years' COVID-19 pandemic, the terrible war in Ukraine and associated sanctions targeting Russia caused a hike in activity across global regions. Spot rates for the product tankers primarily operated by NORDEN increased from USD 6,000 per day in January to more than USD 60,000 per day at certain times throughout the year. A remarkable shift in the product tanker market.

Thus, the two markets were nearly turned upside down during the year. And as mentioned in my introductory remarks, it is precisely the ability to adapt and act on these market fluctuations that is of benefit to NORDEN. Both business units were quick to act in an efficient manner to this situation in 2022. It is therefore worth noting that the extraordinary results were not only brought about by the market conditions, but rather because the Company is able to adapt and take advantage of the opportunities that continuously arise in the market. The Company's adaptable business model and strategy will be explained in detail by the Company's management at the presentation later today.

Assets & Logistics achieved a profit of USD 193 million in 2022, equivalent to DKK 1.3 billion, which is significantly higher than the previous year's results of USD 5 million. For this business unit, it is worth noting the increase in the total portfolio value of owned and leased vessels coupled with the Company's cash and cash equivalents, debts and other assets. The net asset value amounted to more than USD 2 billion at the end of 2022, which is more than DKK 14 billion. This corresponds to a value of DKK 422 per share for this business unit alone. It is an increase of DKK 160 per share compared to the end of last year. This augmentation is the result of a large shift in exposure from dry cargo to product tankers during the second quarter. High exposure to a soaring tanker market favoured the portfolio value of both owned and leased tanker vessels, which jointly more than doubled in value.

At the same time, the business unit protected its dry cargo portfolio from declining vessel values by selling dry cargo vessels at nearly the top of the freight rate curve in 2022. In addition, the long-term contract cover of dry cargo vessels was extended, meaning that, in the third quarter already, we had fully covered dry cargo capacity for the whole of 2023 and well into 2024 at attractive rates.

As a result, at the end of 2022, the unit only owned seven dry cargo vessels, three of which had already been sold, subject to agreement on future delivery. We do also have access to additional tonnage, as we in

NORDEN's Annual General Meeting on 9 March 2023 - Chair's report

dry cargo have 50 purchase options at our disposal and almost 40,000 extension option days, if we choose to declare these.

The strong tanker market in 2022 will have a positive impact on Assets & Logistics in 2023 as, over the past year, the unit has covered the portfolio of tankers at much higher rates than previously.

Our other business unit, Freight Services & Trading generated a profit of USD 550 million, which is almost triple the profit from the previous year. The profit is based on a level of activity that was stable in relation to 2021, but where the business unit managed to increase the daily margin from USD 1,200 per vessel day last year to USD 3,300 per vessel day in 2022.

The business unit operates about 460 chartered vessels on contracts with terms ranging from a few weeks and up to 2 years, and the unit continuously covers these with cargo contracts, including forward freight agreements, i.e. securities of different durations. This more dynamic and asset-light business unit is thus able to continuously adapt to market developments across the dry cargo and tanker markets and in the different geographies in which we operate, and we are able to act on the attractive opportunities that arise.

This ability allowed the unit to create great value in both market segments, having secured cheap tonnage in respect of product tankers ahead of the high tanker rates while, while at the same time having secured extensive dry cargo contracts at high rates ahead of the dry cargo market's gradual decline in the second half of 2022. The latter enabled the business unit to take advantage of the lower dry cargo rates to charter vessels at cheaper rates, thereby securing a high margin in a declining market.

In addition to the active adjustment of market exposure in both markets, the business unit also created significant value by optimising day-to-day operations. This includes, for instance, efficiency improvements of voyages from loading to unloading, speed setting and fuel consumption, as well as vessels being brought into geographical areas in which the unit could capitalise on large regional differences in freight rates.

Based on the strong results achieved across NORDEN's business areas and organisation, the Board of Directors would like to thank all NORDEN's employees for their tremendous efforts during 2022.

ESG

A sustainable approach has been an integral part of NORDEN's business focus for many years, and in this area, we set ambitious goals for environmental, social and governance ('ESG') issues related to NORDEN's business. We have a long-term environmental goal of reducing total emissions from our shipping activity to net zero by the year 2050. To achieve this across our portfolio of nearly 500 chartered, leased and owned vessels, we have launched new initiatives to help our customers reduce CO2 emissions in their value chains. In the short term, we will make use of data and analysis to improve our energy efficiency and reduce emissions from the operation of vessels by selecting ships with lower consumption, cleaning hulls and propellers and using high-quality paint to improve the operational performance and reduce the fuel consumption of our vessels. Since our operations are part of an ever-changing global value chain, our exposure to the market will similarly affect the types of vessels we choose for our fleet and the speed they sail by. In 2022, the high level of activity and the adjustments to market demand implied that the average energy efficiency of our voyages was slightly lower than the year before. Therefore, we will continue to focus on areas where, in collaboration with our customers, we can reduce emissions of the operated vessels. In the short term, our aim is to decrease our emissions per tonne-mile by 2% annually, which is in line with the International Maritime Organisation's 2050 target.

In 2022, we launched automated reporting of emissions to our customers to provide them with complete transparency of the voyages they agree to undertake with NORDEN. In addition, we will offer an increasingly wide range of solutions, where customers can, to a greater extent, choose how they want to

NORDEN's Annual General Meeting on 9 March 2023 - Chair's report

reduce CO2 emissions on voyages. Furthermore, our newly established logistics activities constitute an important step in terms of collaborating and developing more efficient solutions with our customers. Partnerships with our customers are, in fact, a crucial element in our gradual reduction of CO2 emissions over time. We are, for example, part of a long-term collaboration with the Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller Center for Zero Carbon Shipping as a strategic partner, where we invest resources in identifying, testing and developing the fuel of the future on a industry level, which can form the basis for ship propulsion with lower emissions.

In our 2022 annual report, we have made an effort to make our goals and progress even more transparent across the three focus areas related to E, S and G - while, at the same time, making this information more comparable to other Danish and international companies by using widely accepted reporting standards.

The area 'Social' is focused on work-related conditions, health, safety and the culture of NORDEN. Since our industry is, to a high degree, based on human relations, judgement and values, this area is crucial for NORDEN. In our organisation, we have focused on strengthening our working environment, employee engagement and the ability to give good feedback; offering better maternity and paternity schemes and retaining employees over time. In addition, we have aimed at providing an even stronger focus on diversity among employees, both in connection with recruitment, development and retention. We are gradually increasing the proportion of female managers and employees in our organisation, which is nearing our aim of 40%, despite the fact that the shipping industry has traditionally attracted more men. Safety is also an extremely important focal point, which extends from NORDEN's organisation to the third parties with whom we cooperate on the technical operation of our operated vessels. The average amount of work-related injuries per 1 million working hours was in line with 2021. However, a very serious accident occurred on board one of our vessels, where two external technicians, representing a company appointed by a NORDEN subcontractor, tragically died in connection with their inspection of the vessel's tanks. Subsequently, we worked closely with the third-party supplier to clarify the circumstances. A combination of events led to the accident, including failure to comply with safety procedures that were also deemed unclear, human errors as well as the use of defective equipment were demonstrated in connection with the inspection of the empty tank, where toxic gas may be produced. We have also subsequently worked closely with the technical partner and implemented even stronger measures to prevent similar accidents from happening again. We would like to convey our heartfelt condolences to the relatives.

The focus area 'Governance' aims to ensure that NORDEN works in accordance with the organisational standards and conditions characterising good business practice and conduct, regardless of where in the world we are. This includes a strong focus on curbing corruption, saying no to facilitation payment in relation to third parties, and ensuring that NORDEN attains certifications and maintains high standards in the maritime sector. As a new element, we have introduced increased focus on screening of NORDEN's multitude of business partners and suppliers across the organisation. Being part of a global value chain places even greater demands on companies today in terms of having an overview of any risks among suppliers and subcontractors. Naturally, we agree completely and support this in every way possible.

Value creation for shareholders

When taking a closer look at the value, we have created for the shareholders during the year, we see that the share price has shown a growing trend, increasing from DKK 166 to DKK 418 in 2022. When including the dividends of DKK 18 distributed following last year's annual general meeting and the two quarterly dividend distributions totalling DKK 60 per share, this corresponds to a total shareholder return of almost 200% measured in USD.

In addition, keep in mind the capital that was returned to shareholders through the four share buy-back programmes in 2022, worth a total of USD 130 million. Furthermore, NORDEN has initiated a new share buy-back programme of USD 50 million following the presentation of the financial statements. The total

NORDEN's Annual General Meeting on 9 March 2023 - Chair's report

value of dividends distributed and share buy-back programmes since the beginning of 2020 shows that NORDEN has paid more than USD 750 million, or in excess of DKK 5 billion, during this period. This corresponds to more than a fourth of NORDEN's current market value.

When considering our generation of results in a wider perspective, the NORDEN share has, since 2015, performed better than comparable shipping companies in the dry cargo and product tanker market. This is partly due to the robust business model, we have developed, and partly because NORDEN, as mentioned, has returned significant amounts of capital to our shareholders in recent years. The NORDEN share has also performed better than the average transport businesses when considering the MSCI World Transportation index which, in addition to the maritime sector, includes aviation, shipping agents and other land-based transport companies.

Outlook

As far as 2023 is concerned, NORDEN is thus well positioned to navigate the highly volatile conditions characterising the dry cargo and tanker markets. In 2023, the Company therefore expects to achieve strong results between USD 330-430 million, corresponding to approximately DKK 2.3-3 billion, and to continue creating value to our shareholders.

We are able to do so despite an extremely complex geopolitical world situation, which everyone is experiencing on several fronts. A few weeks ago, we passed the one-year anniversary of the terrible war in Ukraine, which has shocked the entire world. While the prospects of a peaceful solution to this conflict remain unclear, we as a shipping company have chosen to adopt key measures. Already in February of last year, immediately after the war broke out, NORDEN made a decision no longer to engage in Russian business or call at Russian ports, and to phase out all existing contracts as soon as contractually possible.

Thus, NORDEN chose to self-sanction early in the process and make a decision on how we would navigate this unfortunate and protracted conflict. Our thoughts are with all those affected by the conflict.

As a result of the war and sanctions, we anticipate continued disruption of the global supply chain, including geopolitical uncertainty, which NORDEN's adaptable and business-oriented business model is well-prepared to face. The Company's Management will provide details on this in its presentation.

In conclusion, I would like to thank all the shareholders for your participation in this Annual General Meeting; both those who are here physically and those participating online. We thank you for your continued support for NORDEN.

Thank you very much.

* Original Link[https://docs.publicnow.com/viewDoc.aspx?filename=75826\EXT\D508AB63749A903BF121E73BD81033AA14688BA8_FAE6705B70039C2A29A79E43EBC84AB256EFD415.PDF]

Disclaimer

Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S published this content on 08 March 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 09 March 2023 14:04:38 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020230309ej3800iad


Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. - Annual Report for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2022 (Form 10-K)
Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. published this content on 10 Mar 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 10 Mar 2023 21:43:55 UTC.
69424 字
2023 年 3 月 10 日
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Filings
SAEXC
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format

Annual Report for Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2022 (Form 10-K)

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022

OR

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from to

Commission File Number 001-33831

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Republic of the Marshall Islands                                 98-0453513 
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 
300 First Stamford Place , 5th Floor       
Stamford, Connecticut                      06902 
(Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code) 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (203) 276-8100

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                      Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share   EGLE              New York Stock Exchange 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer", "accelerated filer", "smaller reporting company", and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer    ☐  Accelerated filer        ☒  Non-Accelerated filer  ☐ 
Smaller reporting company  ☐  Emerging growth company  ☐ 
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provide pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

The aggregate market value of the registrant's common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2022, the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second quarter, was approximately $463,773,478 based on the closing price of $51.88 per share. (For this purpose, all outstanding shares of common stock have been considered held by non-affiliates, other than the shares beneficially owned by directors, officers and certain shareholders of the registrant holding above 10% of the outstanding shares of common stock; without conceding that any of the excluded parties are "affiliates" of the registrant for purposes of the federal securities laws.)

As of March 9, 2023, 13,708,637 shares of the registrant's common stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 2023 annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of December 31, 2022, are incorporated by reference to Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 2022.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                              Page 
PART I                                                                                                       7
Item 1.  Business                                                                                            7
Item 1A. Risk Factors                                                                                        40
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                           58
Item 2.  Properties                                                                                          59
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings                                                                                   60
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosure                                                                              60
PART II                                                                                                      61
Item 5.  Market for Registrant ' s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities61
Item 6.  Reserved                                                                                            63
Item 7.  Management ' s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations             64
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk                                          83
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                         84
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                84
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures                                                                             84
Item 9B. Other Information                                                                                   85
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections                                 85
PART III                                                                                                     86
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                              86
Item 11. Executive Compensation                                                                              86
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters      86
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence                           86
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services                                                              86
PART IV                                                                                                      87
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules                                                             87
         Signatures                                                                                          89
References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Form 10-K" or "Annual Report") to "we," "us," "our," "Eagle Bulk," "Eagle," the "Company" and similar terms all refer to Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires.

A glossary of shipping terms (the "Glossary") that should be used as a reference when reading this Annual Report can be found immediately prior to Item 1A. Capitalized terms that are used in this Annual Report are either defined when they are first used or in the Glossary.

All dollar amounts are stated in United States ("U.S.") dollars unless otherwise noted. Certain numerical information in this report is presented on a rounded basis using actual amounts. Minor differences in totals or percentages may exist due to rounding.

Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factor Summary

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor provided for under these sections. These statements may include words such as "believe," "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "plan," "anticipate" and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of the timing or nature of future operating or financial performance or other events. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations and observations with respect to future events and financial performance.

Where we express an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, our forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by those forward-looking statements. The principal factors that affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows include market freight rates, which fluctuate based on various economic and market conditions, periods of charter hire, vessel operating expenses and voyage costs, which are incurred primarily in U.S. dollars, depreciation expenses, which are a function of the purchase price of our vessels and our vessels' estimated useful lives and scrap value, general and administrative expenses, and financing costs related to our indebtedness. The accuracy of the Company's assumptions, expectations, beliefs and projections depends on events or conditions that change over time and are thus susceptible to change based on actual experience, new developments and known and unknown risks. The Company gives no assurance that the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct and does not undertake any duty to update them. Our business is subject to a number of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. These risks are discussed more fully under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and include, but are not limited to the following:

• deterioration of the global economic environment;

• volatility of freight rates driven by changes in demand for seaborne transportation of drybulk commodities and in supply of drybulk shipping capacity;

• the impact of measures implemented by governments in response to the COVID-19 pandemic;

• an increase in trade protectionism;

• changes in the economic and political environment in China;

• seasonal fluctuations of the drybulk shipping market;

• over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity driven by levels of newbuilding orders, scrapping rates or fleet utilization;

• impairment charges as a result of declines in freight rates and vessel values;

• a decrease in the market values of our vessels;

• an increase in fuel costs or bunker prices;

• an increase in operating costs driven by inflation;

• costs of compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies and laws and regulations;

• costs of compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, as well as any penalties imposed as a result of non-compliance with such laws and regulations;

• costs of operating in warlike and high-risk geographic areas;

• costs of non-compliance with economic sanctions and trade embargo laws and regulations;

• impact of inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls;

• business interruptions from events or circumstances associated with operating ocean-going vessels, including changes in the conditions of our vessels;

• requisitions of our vessels by governments during a period of war;

• costs and reputational harm due to cyber-attacks or other security breaches;

• changes in the global financial markets and their impact on our ability to obtain additional financing;

• risks of default under our loan agreements;

• losses from the use of derivative instruments;

• the transition from the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") as a benchmark interest rate to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR");

• counterparty credit risk on financial institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents;

• a decrease in spot freight rates and its impact on our profitability;

• costs associated with the acquisition, takeover and operation of secondhand vessels;

• failure of our charterers or other counterparties to meet their obligations under charter agreements or other contracts;

• failure to employ our vessels profitably in the highly-competitive international drybulk shipping industry;

• the impact of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine on our business;

• failure to attract and retain key management personnel;

• increasing costs due to the aging of our fleet;

• costs of non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA");

• the impact of technological innovations on our revenues and the value of our vessels;

• any legal proceedings which we may be involved in from time to time; and other factors listed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC");

• arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants;

• if we are required to pay tax on U.S. source income or subject to additional taxes as a result of challenges by tax authorities or changes in applicable law;

• if we are treated as a "passive foreign investment company";

• an inability of our subsidiaries to declare or pay dividends;

• the impact of the corporate laws of the Marshall Islands on our common stock, ability to pay dividends, the responsibilities of our directors and rights of shareholders;

• the fluctuation of the price of our common stock;

• the inactivity of the public market for our common stock;

• certain shareholders owning large portions of our outstanding common stock, which may limit other stockholders' ability to influence our actions;

• future sales or availability of sale of shares by the Company as well as the effect of the sale of borrowed shares in the open market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline;

• our shareholders are limited in their ability to elect or remove directors and to take action outside of Annual or Special Meetings;

• our shareholders are subject to advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations;

• our organizational documents contain super majority provisions; and

• our organizational documents provide that disputes between us and our shareholders shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal courts located in the Southern District of New York.

We have based these statements on assumptions and analyses formed by applying our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. The Company's future results may be impacted by adverse economic conditions, such as inflation, deflation, or lack of liquidity in the capital markets, that may negatively affect it or parties with whom it does business. Should one or more of the foregoing risks or uncertainties materialize in a way that negatively impacts the Company, or should the Company's underlying assumptions prove incorrect, the Company's actual results may vary materially from those anticipated in its forward-looking statements, and its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could harm our results. We disclaim any intent or obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview and Recent Developments

The Company is a U.S.-based, fully integrated shipowner-operator, providing global transportation solutions to a diverse group of customers including miners, producers, traders and end users. Headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, with offices in Singapore and Copenhagen, Eagle focuses exclusively on the versatile midsize drybulk vessel segment and owns one of the largest fleets of Supramax/Ultramax vessels in the world. The Company performs all management services in-house (strategic, commercial, operational, technical, and administrative) and employs an active management approach to fleet trading with the objective of optimizing revenue performance and maximizing earnings on a risk-managed basis.

As of December 31, 2022, our owned fleet totaled 53 vessels, or 3.20 million deadweight ton ("dwt"), with an average age of 9.6 years.

Vessel acquisitions and sales

For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company executed agreements to acquire two modern, efficient vessels and to sell the oldest vessel in its fleet:

• During the second quarter of 2022, the Company signed a memorandum of agreement to sell the vessel Cardinal (a 2004-built Supramax) for total consideration of $15.8 million. The vessel was delivered to the buyer during the third quarter of 2022. The Company recorded a gain of $9.3 million upon sale of the vessel in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2022.

• During the third quarter of 2022, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification 2015-built scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $27.5 million. The vessel was delivered to the Company during the fourth quarter of 2022.

• During the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification 2015-built Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $24.3 million. The Company paid a deposit of $3.6 million on this vessel as of December 31, 2022. The vessel was delivered to the Company during the first quarter of 2023.

Mission + Vision + Values

MISSION

Providing optimized global transportation of drybulk commodities; delivering superior results for our customers and stakeholders.

VISION

To be the leading integrated shipowner-operator through consistent outperformance and sustainable growth.

VALUES

• PASSION for excellence drives us

• EMPOWERMENT of our people leads to better results

• INTEGRITY defines our culture

• RESPONSIBILITY to safety underpins every decision

• FORWARD THINKING takes us to a more successful tomorrow

Business Strategy

• Focus on the most versatile drybulk vessel segment

We focus on owning and operating vessels within the midsize Supramax/Ultramax segment. We consider this vessel segment to be the most versatile amongst the various drybulk asset classes due to the optimal size and specifications of Supramax/Ultramax ships, which allows us to carry the most diversified cargo mix when compared to other sizes of drybulk carriers. With a size ranging from 50,000 to 65,000 dwt and a length of approximately 200 meters, Supramax/Ultramax vessels are able to accommodate large cargo quantities and call on the majority of ports around the globe. In addition, these vessels are equipped with onboard cranes and grabs, giving them the ability to load and discharge cargoes without the need for shore-based port equipment/infrastructure. We believe the versatility and flexibility of Supramax/Ultramax vessels provide for improved risk-adjusted returns throughout the cycles.

• Employ an active management strategy for fleet trading

We employ an active management strategy for fleet employment with the objective of optimizing revenue performance and maximizing earnings on a risk-managed basis. Through the execution of various commercial strategies employed across our global trading desks in the United States, Europe and Asia, the Company has been able to achieve optimal TCE (as defined herein) results and outperform the relevant market index on a consistent basis.

• Execute on fleet renewal and growth

Since 2016, and through the date of this Annual Report, we have executed on a comprehensive fleet renewal program totaling 55 vessel transactions. We have acquired 33 modern vessels and sold 22 of our oldest and least-efficient vessels. We believe these transactions have vastly improved our fleet makeup, enabling us to generate incremental revenue on a per ship basis; we have been able to maintain our fleet age profile at an optimized level, increase our cargo-carrying capacity per ship and improve our fleet emissions profile (as measured by fuel consumption per dwt).

• Perform technical management in-house

We perform all technical management services relating to vessel maintenance, vessel repairs and crewing.

• Implement a prudent approach to balance sheet management

We believe the long-term success of our Company is contingent on maintaining a prudent approach to balance sheet management, including working capital optimization, diversifying capital sources, lowering cost of capital, limiting interest rate exposure and optimizing the debt profile.

• Emphasize Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") factors

We published our first comprehensive ESG Sustainability Report in 2020. The document was prepared in accordance with the Marine Transportation Framework, established by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. Our reports are available for download on our company website. Initiatives we have undertaken include:

Environmental

• Executing on a comprehensive fleet renewal program, acquiring modern efficient vessels and selling older, less efficient ones, which has resulted in an improved fleet makeup and reduced greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions on a ton-mile basis.

• Creating a performance department and implementing performance optimization software, which has resulted in improved vessel performance and reduced fuel consumption.

• Applying high-specification hull coatings and installing various energy saving devices to improve vessel performance and reduce fuel consumption.

• Reducing sulfur emissions by approximately 85% by following strategies to comply with the International Maritime Organization's ("IMO") fuel sulfur content regulations, which went into effect in January 2020.

• Investigating existing and emerging technologies to reduce GHG emissions including completing our first 100% sustainable biofuel voyage on the M/V Sydney Eagle in 2021 and a subsequent 100% sustainable biofuel voyage on the M/V Stamford Eagle in 2022.

• Embedding a Sustainability-linked feature to our Global Ultraco Debt Facility (as defined herein), which allows the Company to benefit from improved margin pricing on its borrowings, subject to meeting certain performance indicators relating to Fleet Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) Performance and Green Spending.

• Joining the Getting to Zero Coalition, a global alliance of more than 200 companies committed to the decarbonization of deep-sea shipping in line with the IMO GHG emissions reduction strategy and, ultimately, the alignment of shipping emissions with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Paris Agreement.

• Becoming a signatory to the Sea Cargo Charter, a global framework for aligning chartering activities with responsible environmental behavior in order to promote international shipping's decarbonization. The Sea Cargo Charter is consistent with the IMO's ambition for GHG emissions from international shipping to peak as soon as possible and to reduce by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 2008 levels.

• Joining the Mærsk Mc-Kinney Møller Center for Zero Carbon Shipping as Mission Ambassador, which is a not-for-profit, independent research and development center. It works across the shipping sector with industry, academia and authorities to create an overview of viable decarbonization pathways, facilitate the development and implementation of new energy technologies, build confidence in new concepts and their supply chains and accelerate the energy transition by defining and maturing viable strategic pathways.

• Joining other industry leaders in calling on policy makers to prioritize the implementation of a carbon pricing mechanism and dedicated shipping industry decarbonized research and development fund during COP26 held in Glasgow, Scotland.

Social

• Abiding by equal opportunity employer guidelines and promoting diversity in the workforce.

• Recognizing and complying with the Maritime Labor Convention, which was adopted by the International Labor Organization ("ILO"). All of our crew labor contracts are International Transport Workers' Federation compliant agreements.

• Becoming a signatory to The Neptune Declaration, a global "call to action" initiative to help end the unprecedented crew change crisis affecting the maritime industry as a result of the outbreak of COVID-19 and its impact to worldwide travel.

• Implementing a robust safety management system.

• Volunteering with, and donating to, various local charities and causes.

• Providing paid internship opportunities to university students.

Governance

• Setting up a best-in-class corporate governance structure.

• Combating corruption through strict internal procedures and training, as well as taking part in collective action through our membership in the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network.

• Adopting a comprehensive code of ethics program within the organization that provides ongoing training and robust controls.

• Focusing on highly transparent reporting of sustainability, operating, and financial performance.

Our Fleet

The 53 vessels in our owned fleet as of December 31, 2022 are as follows:

#    Vessel             Dwt(in thousands)   Year Built 
1    Antwerp Eagle      63.5                2015 
2    Bittern            57.8                2009 
3    Canary             57.8                2009 
4    Cape Town Eagle    63.7                2015 
5    Copenhagen Eagle   63.5                2015 
6    Crane              57.8                2010 
7    Crested Eagle      56.0                2009 
8    Crowned Eagle      55.9                2008 
9    Dublin Eagle       63.6                2015 
10   Egret Bulker       57.8                2010 
11   Fairfield Eagle    63.3                2013 
12   Gannet Bulker      57.8                2010 
13   Golden Eagle       56.0                2010 
14   Grebe Bulker       57.8                2010 
15   Greenwich Eagle    63.3                2013 
16   Groton Eagle       63.3                2013 
17   Hamburg Eagle      63.3                2014 
18   Helsinki Eagle     63.6                2015 
19   Hong Kong Eagle    63.5                2016 
20   Ibis Bulker        57.8                2010 
21   Imperial Eagle     56.0                2010 
22   Jaeger             52.5                2004 
23   Jay                57.8                2010 
24   Kingfisher         57.8                2010 
25   Madison Eagle      63.3                2013 
26   Martin             57.8                2010 
27   Montauk Eagle       58.0   2011 
28   Mystic Eagle        63.3   2013 
29   New London Eagle    63.1   2015 
30   Newport Eagle       58.0   2011 
31   Nighthawk           57.8   2011 
32   Oriole              57.8   2011 
33   Oslo Eagle          63.7   2015 
34   Owl                 57.8   2011 
35   Petrel Bulker       57.8   2011 
36   Puffin Bulker       57.8   2011 
37   Roadrunner Bulker   57.8   2011 
38   Rotterdam Eagle     63.6   2017 
39   Rowayton Eagle      63.3   2013 
40   Sandpiper Bulker    57.8   2011 
41   Sankaty Eagle       58.0   2011 
42   Santos Eagle        63.5   2015 
43   Shanghai Eagle      63.4   2016 
44   Singapore Eagle     63.4   2017 
45   Southport Eagle     63.3   2013 
46   Stamford Eagle      61.5   2016 
47   Stellar Eagle       56.0   2009 
48   Stockholm Eagle     63.3   2016 
49   Stonington Eagle    63.3   2012 
50   Sydney Eagle        63.5   2015 
51   Tokyo Eagle         61.2   2015 
52   Valencia Eagle      63.6   2015 
53   Westport Eagle      63.3   2015 
Commercial Strategies

The following is a brief description of the commercial strategies we use to employ our vessels:

1) Time Charter-Out

Time charter-out describes a contract for the use of a ship for an agreed period of time, at an agreed hire rate per day. Commercial control of the vessel becomes the responsibility of the time charterer who performs the voyage(s). The time charterer is responsible to pay the agreed hire and also purchase the fuel and pay port expenses. Time charters can range from as short as one voyage (approximately 20-40 days) to multiple years.

2) Voyage Chartering

Voyage chartering involves the employment of a vessel between designated ports for the duration of the voyage only. Freight is earned on the volume of cargo carried. In contrast to the Time charter-out method, in a voyage charter, we maintain control of the commercial operation and are responsible for managing the voyage, including vessel scheduling and routing, as well as any related costs, such as fuel, port expenses and other expenses. Having the ability to control and manage the voyage, we are able to generate increased margin through operational efficiencies, business intelligence and scale. Additionally, contracting to carry cargoes on voyage terms often gives us the ability to utilize a wide range of vessels to perform the contract

(as long as the vessel meets the contractual parameters), thereby giving significant operational flexibility to the fleet. Such vessels include not only ships we own, but also third-party ships, which can be chartered-in on an opportunistic basis (the inverse of a Time charter-out strategy).

3) Vessel + Cargo Arbitrage

With this strategy, we contract to carry a cargo on voyage terms (as described above under the caption "Voyage Chartering") with a specific ship earmarked to cover the commitment. As the date of cargo loading approaches, the market may have moved in such a way whereby we elect to substitute a different vessel to perform the voyage, while assigning a different piece of business to the original earmarked ship. Taken as a whole, this strategy can generate increased revenues, on a risk-managed basis, as compared to the original cargo-vessel pairing.

4) Time Charter-In

This strategy involves us leasing a vessel from a third-party shipowner at a set U.S. dollar per day rate. As referenced above, vessels can be time-chartered in order to cover existing cargo commitments, resulting in a Vessel + Cargo arbitrage. These ships may be chartered-in for periods longer than required for the initial cargo or arbitrage, and can also be chartered-in opportunistically in order to benefit from rate dislocations and to obtain risk-managed exposure to the market overall.

5) Hedging (FFAs)

Forward Freight Agreements ("FFAs") are cleared financial instruments, which we can use to hedge market freight rate exposure by locking in a fixed rate against the eventual forward market. FFAs are an important tool to manage market risk associated with chartering-in of third-party vessels. FFAs can also be used to lock in revenue streams on owned vessels or against forward cargo commitments the Company may enter into.

6) Asymmetric Optionality

This is a blended strategy approach whereby we utilize time charters, cargo commitments and FFAs together to hedge away market exposure while maintaining upside optionality to positive market volatility. As a simplified example, a ship may be time chartered-in for one year with a further optional year. In such a scenario, and dependent on market conditions, we could sell an FFA for the firm 1-year period commitment, essentially eliminating exposure to the market, while maintaining full upside on rate developments for the optional year.

Additional information regarding the types of charters that we may enter into is as follows:

Types of Charters 
Charter Characteristics                          VoyageCharter                      TimeCharter                 IndexCharter 
Typical contract length                          Single voyage                      One or multiple voyages     Six months or more 
Hire rate basis (1)                              Per metric ton of cargo loaded     Daily                       Linked to BSI 
Voyage expenses (2)                              We pay                             Customer pays               Customer pays 
Vessel operating expenses for owned vessels (3)  We pay                             We pay                      We pay 
Charter hire expense for vessels chartered-in    We pay                             We pay                      We pay 
Off-hire (4)                                     Customer does not pay              Customer does not pay       Customer does not pay 
(1) 'Hire rate' refers to a sum of money paid to the vessel owner by a charterer under a time charter party for the use of a vessel. 'Freight rate basis' means the sum of money paid to the vessel owner

under a voyage charter or contract of affreightment based on the unit measurement of cargo loaded. 'BSI' refers to the "Baltic Supramax Index" and the daily hire rate varies based on the Index. Please refer to the Glossary for further detail on how the BSI is calculated.

(2) Voyage expenses include fuel, port charges, canal tolls and brokerage commissions.

(3) Vessel operating expenses include crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lubes and communication expenses.

(4) 'Off-hire' refers to the time a vessel is unavailable to perform the service either due to scheduled or unscheduled repairs.

The Company employs its fleet opportunistically in an effort to maximize earnings. The Company enters into charters and is continuously developing contractual relationships directly with cargo interests. These relationships and the related cargo contracts have the dual benefit of providing greater operational efficiencies and act as a balance to the Company's naturally long position to the market. Notwithstanding the focus on short-term chartering, the Company consistently monitors the drybulk shipping market and, based on market conditions, will consider entering into long-term time charters if and when appropriate.

The following summary represents the status of employment of our owned fleet as of December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

                 December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Time Charter     55%                 53%                 40% 
Voyage Charter   43%                 42%                 56% 
Shipyard (1)     2%                  6%                  4% 
(1) Vessels in shipyard were undergoing statutory drydock, BWTS installation or other necessary repairs.

In connection with the charters of each of our vessels, unaffiliated third-party ship brokers earn commissions, with the total amount ranging from 1.25% to 5.00% of the total daily charter hire rate of each charter, with the commission rate depending on the number of brokers involved with arranging the relevant charter.

Our Customers

Our customers include some of the world's leading agricultural, mining, manufacturing and trading companies, as well as smaller, privately owned companies. Our assessment of customers' financial condition and reliability is an important factor in negotiating employment for our vessels. We evaluate the counterparty risk of potential customers based on our management's experience in the shipping industry combined with the additional input of an independent credit risk consultant. In 2022, 2021 and 2020, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue.

Operations

We carry out the commercial, technical and strategic management of our fleet through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Eagle Bulk Management LLC, a Marshall Islands limited liability company which maintains its principal executive offices in Stamford, Connecticut. We also maintain offices in Copenhagen (Denmark) and Singapore.

The two central aspects to the operation of our fleet include:

• Commercial operations, which involve chartering and operating a vessel; and

• Technical operations, which involve maintaining, crewing and repairing a vessel.

Each of the Company's vessels serve the same type of customer, have similar operation and maintenance requirements, operate in the same regulatory environment, and are subject to similar economic characteristics. Based on this, the Company has determined that it operates in one reportable segment which is engaged in the ocean transportation of drybulk cargoes worldwide through the ownership and operation of drybulk vessels.

Commercial Management

We perform the commercial management of our fleet, including obtaining employment for our vessels and maintaining relationships with the charterers of our vessels. We have three offices across the globe located in the U.S., Europe and Asia, which allows for 24-hour market coverage. We believe that due to our management team's experience in operating drybulk vessels, we have access to a broad range of charterers and can employ our fleet efficiently in diverse market conditions allowing us to achieve high utilization rates.

Being an active owner-operator means effectively seeking to operate our own vessels when possible, as compared with time chartering them to other operators, all with a view toward achieving higher-than-market net charter hire income. In doing so, we believe we can take advantage of rapidly changing market conditions and obtain better operational efficiencies from our fleet.

Technical Management

We have established in-house technical management capabilities, through which we provide technical management services to all vessels in our fleet. Technical management includes managing day-to-day operation of the vessel and machinery; performing general maintenance; ensuring regulatory and classification society compliance; supervising the general efficiency of the vessel; arranging the hire of qualified officers and crew; planning, arranging and supervising drydocking and repairs; purchasing supplies, spare parts, lubes and new equipment; and appointing supervisors and technical consultants.

General and Administrative Management

Our business operations include administrative support from Strategic (vessel acquisition and sale), Legal (compliance and insurance), Finance (accounting and treasury), Information Technology and Administrative (executive and human resources) personnel.

Human Capital Management

As of December 31, 2022, we have an aggregate of 96 shore-based personnel employed in our three office locations. We value a diverse workforce and our shore-based personnel are comprised of 27 different nationalities. We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in our hiring and promoting practices, benefits and wages.

We take a systemic approach to hiring, training and developing our employees based on our code of ethics. This includes creating individual goals based on company priorities and providing employees periodic feedback in order to assess individual performance. We have developed internal promoting practices based on objective annual performance evaluations, encouraging employees to develop within their chosen career path and providing necessary professional trainings as needed. We also employ a succession planning process that identifies suitable candidates, and their development needs, for key positions in the company.

Seafarers

In addition to our shore-based personnel, we employ approximately 1,000 officers and crew members on our owned fleet. We hire our crew through third-party manning agencies and currently source seafarers from a number of countries, including Ukraine, Russia, the Philippines, Georgia, Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, India and Egypt. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and current and future sanctions imposed as a result of it, may adversely affect our ability to hire and/or pay for our crew. In response to this risk, the Company recruited one new third-party manning agency during 2022 and another during 2023 in order to diversify our crew nationality exposure and

increase our sourcing from the Philippines.

The third-party crew managers are responsible for the recruitment of crew members with training, licenses and experience appropriate for our vessels. On board, our crews perform most operational and maintenance work and assist in supervising work during cargo operations and at drydock facilities. We often man our vessels with more crew members than are required by the vessel's Flag State safe manning requirement in order to allow for the performance of routine maintenance duties. All of our crew members are subject to and are paid commensurate with international collective bargaining agreements and, therefore, we do not anticipate any labor disruptions. The international collective bargaining agreements, to which we are a party, are typically renewed for a two-year term.

Human rights, health and safety

For our crew members on our ships, we maintain security measures to ensure well-being and safety on our ships. We developed and implemented a safety management system in compliance with the International Safety Management Code and the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code. All necessary certificates required by the IMO were obtained by our in-house technical managers. We comply with the Maritime Labor Convention adopted by the ILO in 2006 (the "MLC 2006"). The MLC 2006 outlines the minimum requirements for seafarers to work, conditions of employment, facilities while on board and health and welfare protection. The MLC 2006 obliges all ships above 500 gross tons in international trade to have a Maritime Labor Certificate and a Declaration of Maritime Labor Compliance. All our vessels and crew are compliant with the MLC 2006 and we intend to maintain them accordingly.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, government-imposed travel restrictions, which were put in place in order to curtail the spread of the virus, created substantial challenges with respect to being able to effect crew changes and repatriation, and our seafarers sometimes had to work past their contractual employment periods. It has been a strategic priority of ours to relieve our seafarers as close to their contractual due dates as possible and we have successfully managed crew changeovers even in light of evolving travel restrictions in many countries. In order to achieve this result, we had to divert some of our ships and/or incur additional off-hire costs in addition to higher crew change expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we incurred approximately 63 days of additional off-hire related to crew changes. These costs notwithstanding, we believe it is our obligation to our seafarers to ensure their overall health and safety.

Permits, Authorizations and Regulations

We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our vessels. The kinds of permits, licenses and certificates required depend upon several factors, including the commodity transported, the waters in which the vessel operates, the nationality of the vessel's crew and the age of a vessel. We expect to be able to obtain all permits, licenses and certificates currently required to permit our vessels to operate. Additional laws and regulations, environmental or otherwise, may be adopted which increase the cost of us doing business.

Our vessels operate worldwide in compliance with trading limits imposed by governmental economic sanctions regimes and insurance terms and do not operate in or conduct business with countries or territories that are subject to United States, European Union ("EU"), United Kingdom or United Nations ("UN") comprehensive country-wide or territory-wide sanctions.

Environmental and Other Regulations

Government regulation impacts the operation of our vessels. We are subject to international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the countries in which our vessels may transit or operate relating to safety and health and environmental protection including the storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of hazardous and non-hazardous materials, the remediation of contamination and

liability for damage to natural resources. Compliance with such laws, regulations and other requirements entails significant expense, including required vessel modifications and implementation of certain operating procedures.

A variety of government and private entities subject our vessels to both scheduled and unscheduled inspections. These entities include the local port authorities (including national Coast Guards, harbor masters and port state control authorities), classification societies, flag state administrations (country of vessel registry), as well as our charterers and terminal operators. Certain of these entities require us to obtain permits, licenses and certificates for the operation of our vessels. Failure to maintain the necessary permits or approvals could result in substantial costs in fines and penalties or result in the temporary suspension of the operation of one or more of our vessels.

We believe that the heightening levels of environmental and quality concerns among regulators, charterers and the insurance industry is leading to greater inspection and safety requirements on all vessels, which may accelerate the recycling of older vessels throughout the shipping industry. Increasingly stringent environmental regulations have created a demand for vessels that conform to the most up-to-date environmental standards, whether through retrofitting or new design. We strive to maintain operating standards for all of our vessels that emphasize operational safety, quality maintenance, continuous training of our officers and crews and adherence to applicable international regulations. We believe that the operation of our vessels is in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that our vessels have all material permits, licenses, certificates or other authorizations necessary for the conduct of our operations. However, because such laws and regulations are subject to change and may impose stricter requirements, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with these requirements, or the impact of these requirements on the resale value or useful lives of our vessels.

International Maritime Organization (IMO)

The International Maritime Organization, the United Nations body for maritime safety and the prevention of pollution by ships, has adopted the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto, collectively referred to as MARPOL 73/78 ("MARPOL"). MARPOL has been in effect since October 2, 1983 and has been adopted by over 150 nations, including many of the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate. MARPOL sets forth pollution-prevention requirements applicable to different types of vessels and is broken into six Annexes, each of which regulates a different source of pollution. Annex I relates to oil leakage or spilling; Annexes II and III relate to harmful substances carried in bulk, in liquid or packaged form, respectively; Annexes IV and V relate to sewage and garbage management, respectively; and Annex VI relates to air emissions. Annex VI was separately adopted by the IMO in September of 1997.

In 2013, the Marine Environmental Protection Committee ("MEPC") was adopted by resolution amendments to MARPOL Annex I Conditional Assessment Scheme ("CAS"). The amendments, which became effective on October 1, 2014, pertain to the inspections of bulkcarriers and tankers and require compliance with the 2011 Enhanced Survey Programme Code, which enhances the programs of inspections. We made the necessary financial expenditures to comply with these amendments.

Air Emissions

Annex VI to MARPOL, which was designed to address air pollution from vessels and which became effective on May 19, 2005, sets limits on sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from ships and prohibits deliberate emissions of ozone depleting substances, such as chlorofluorocarbons. Annex VI also regulates shipboard incineration and the emission of volatile organic compounds from tankers. In addition, Annex VI includes a global cap on the sulfur content of fuel oil and allows for special areas to be established with more stringent controls of sulfur emissions known as Emission Control Areas ("ECAs"), as explained below.

MEPC adopted amendments to Annex VI on October 10, 2008, which entered into force on July 1, 2010. The amended Annex VI seeks to further reduce air pollution by, among other things, implementing a progressive reduction of the amount of sulfur contained in any fuel oil used on board ships. As of January 1, 2020, sulfur content could not exceed 0.50% unless an approved exhaust gas cleaning system ("scrubber") is in use. Additionally, in

October 2018, MEPC amended Annex VI to prohibit the carriage of bunkers above 0.5% sulfur on ships on or after March 1, 2020, with the exception of vessels fitted with scrubbers which can carry fuel of higher sulfur content.

We have implemented a comprehensive approach to compliance with IMO sulfur regulations. We believe that fitting scrubbers is the most cost-effective approach to achieve compliance for the majority of the ships in our fleet. As of December 31, 2022, 48 of our 53 vessels were fitted with scrubbers, making us the largest owner of scrubber fitted Supramax/Ultramax vessels in the world. The balance of our fleet complies with the MARPOL Annex VI sulfur limit through consumption of compliant fuels.

Sulfur content standards are stricter within certain ECAs. As of January 1, 2015, ships operating within an ECA may not use fuel with sulfur content in excess of 0.1% unless they are equipped with scrubbers capable of reducing emissions below 0.1%. Annex VI establishes procedures for designating new ECAs. Currently, the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, certain coastal areas of North America and United States Caribbean area have been designated as ECAs. An ECA covering the Mediterranean Sea will come into effect on May 1, 2025. Ocean-going vessels in these areas will be subject to stringent emissions controls, which may cause us to incur additional costs to procure compliant fuel and/or install scrubbers. If additional ECAs are approved by the IMO or other new or more stringent requirements relating to emissions from marine engines or port operations by vessels are adopted by the states where our vessels operate, compliance with these regulations could entail additional expenses relating to operation of scrubbers, purchase of compliant fuel or otherwise increase the costs of our operations.

Annex VI also establishes progressive reductions in nitrogen oxide emissions from marine diesel engines installed on ships, with a "Tier II" emission limit for engines installed on a ship constructed on or after January 1, 2011; and a more stringent "Tier III" emission limit for engines installed on a ship constructed on or after January 1, 2016 operating in ECAs.

We believe we are in compliance with all current requirements of Annex VI, but we may incur additional costs to comply with more stringent standards. Additional or new conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could require the installation of expensive emission control systems and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Safety Management System Requirements

The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ("SOLAS") and the International Convention on Load Lines (the "LL Convention") impose a variety of standards that regulate the design and operational features of ships. The IMO periodically revises the SOLAS and LL Convention standards. In addition, the Convention of Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims establishes limits of liability for loss of life or personal injury claim and property claims against shipowners.

The operation of our ships is also affected by Chapter IX of SOLAS, which sets forth the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention (the "ISM Code"). The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive Safety Management System ("SMS") that includes, among other things, the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for emergency response. We rely upon the SMS that we have developed for compliance with the ISM Code. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. As of the date of this filing, all of the vessels in our owned fleet are ISM code-certified.

The ISM Code requires that vessel operators obtain a safety management certificate ("SMC") for each vessel they operate. This certificate evidences compliance by a vessel's operators with the ISM Code requirements for a SMS. No vessel can obtain a SMC under the ISM Code unless its manager has been awarded a document of compliance ("DoC") issued by the vessel's flag state or by an approved organization on behalf of the flag state. Our in-house technical managers have obtained DoC for all offices and safety management certificates for all of our vessels for which the certificates are required by the IMO, which certificates are renewed as needed.

Pollution Control and Liability Requirements

The IMO has implemented international conventions that impose liability for pollution in international waters and the territorial waters of the signatories to such conventions. For example, the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments ("BWM Convention") is designed to protect the marine environment from the introduction of non-native (alien) species as a result of the carrying of ships' ballast water from one place to another. The BWM Convention was adopted in 2004 and became effective on September 8, 2017. The BWM Convention is applicable to new and existing vessels that are designed to carry ballast water. It defines a discharge standard consisting of maximum allowable levels of critical invasive species. This standard is met by installing BWTS that render the invasive species non-viable. In addition, each vessel is required to have on board a valid International Ballast Water Management Certificate, a Ballast Water Management Plan and a Ballast Water Record Book.

Under relevant U.S. federal laws, U.S. Coast Guard ("USCG") approved BWTS are required to be installed in all vessels at the first out of water drydocking after January 1, 2016 if these vessels are to discharge ballast water inside 12 nautical miles of the coast of the United States. An Alternative Management System ("AMS") may be installed in lieu of a USCG approved BWTS. An AMS is valid for five years from the date of required compliance with ballast water discharge standards, by which time it must be replaced by an approved system unless the AMS itself achieves approval.

In 2018, the Company entered into a contract for the purchase of BWTS for its owned vessels. As of December 31, 2022, 48 of our owned vessels have BWTS installed. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded $8.2 million in Vessels and vessel improvements in the Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the acquisition and installation of BWTS. As of December 31, 2022, the Company made payments of $2.0 million related to BWTS that are expected to be acquired and installed during scheduled drydockings in 2023 and are recorded in Advances for ballast water systems and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

The IMO adopted the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage (the "Bunker Convention") to impose strict liability on shipowners for pollution damage in jurisdictional waters of ratifying states caused by discharges of bunker fuel. The Bunker Convention requires registered owners of ships over 1,000 gross tons to maintain insurance for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, as amended). With respect to non-ratifying states, liability for spills or releases of oil carried as fuel in ships' bunkers typically is determined by national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the events or damages occur. Our ships carry bunker pollution insurance in excess of the statutory requirements.

In March 2006, the IMO amended Annex I to MARPOL, including a regulation relating to oil fuel tank protection, which became effective August 1, 2007. The regulation applies to various ships delivered on or after August 1, 2010. The requirements it contains address issues such as fuel tanks, protected location accidental oil fuel outflow performance standards, a tank capacity limit and certain other maintenance, inspection and engineering standards.

IMO regulations also require owners and operators of certain vessels to adopt Ship Oil Pollution Emergency Plans. Periodic training and drills for response personnel and for vessels and their crews are required.

In March 2021, the U.S. government began investigating an allegation that one of the Company's vessels may have improperly disposed of ballast water that entered the engine room bilges during a repair. The investigation of this alleged violation of environmental laws is ongoing, and although at this time we do not believe that this matter will have a material impact on the Company, our financial condition or results of operations, we cannot determine what penalties, if any, will be imposed. We have posted a surety bond as security for any potential fines, penalties or associated costs that may be incurred, and the Company is cooperating fully with the U.S. government in its investigation of this matter.

Anti-Fouling Requirements

In 2001, the IMO adopted the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Fouling Systems on Ships (the "Anti-Fouling Convention"). The Anti-Fouling Convention prohibits the use of organotin compound coatings to prevent the attachment of mollusks and other sea life to the hulls of vessels. Vessels of over 400 gross tons engaged in international voyages are required to undergo an initial survey before the vessel is put into service or before an International Anti-Fouling System Certificate is issued for the first time and subsequent surveys when the anti-fouling systems are altered or replaced.

In November 2020, MEPC 75 approved draft amendments to the Anti-Fouling Convention to prohibit anti-fouling systems containing cybutryne. These amendments were adopted at MEPC 76 in June 2021 and will apply to ships from January 1, 2023.

We have obtained Anti-Fouling System Certificates for all of our vessels that are subject to the Anti-Fouling Convention.

Compliance Enforcement

The flag state, as defined by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, is responsible for implementing and enforcing a broad range of international maritime regulations with respect to all ships granted the right to fly its flag. The "Shipping Industry Guidelines on Flag State Performance" evaluates and reports on flag states based on factors such as sufficiency of infrastructure, ratification, implementation, and enforcement of principal international maritime treaties, supervision of statutory ship surveys, casualty investigations, and participation at IMO and ILO meetings. Our vessels are flagged in the Marshall Islands. Marshall Islands-flagged vessels have historically received a good assessment in the shipping industry. We recognize the importance of a credible flag state and do not intend to use flag states with poor performance indicators.

Non-compliance with the ISM Code or other IMO regulations may subject the shipowner or bareboat charterer to increased liability, lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels or result in the denial of access to, or detention in some ports. As of the date of this report, each of our vessels is ISM Code certified and it is our intent to maintain ISM code certification. However, there can be no assurance that such certificates will be maintained in the future.

The IMO continues to introduce new regulations. It is impossible to predict what additional regulations, if any, may be passed by the IMO and what effect, if any, such regulations may have on our operations.

The U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act

The U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA") established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all "owners and operators" whose vessels trade with the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States' territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. The United States has also enacted the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), which applies to the discharge of hazardous substances other than oil, except in limited circumstances whether on land or at sea. OPA and CERCLA both define "owner or operator," in the case of a vessel, as "any person owning, operating or chartering by demise," the vessel. Both OPA and CERCLA impact our operations.

Under OPA, vessel owners and operators are "responsible parties" and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (i.e., no showing of "fault" is required) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war. OPA defines these other damages broadly to include:

• Injury to, destruction or loss of, or loss of use of, natural resources and related assessment costs;

• Injury to, or economic losses resulting from, the destruction of real and personal property;

• Net loss of taxes, royalties, rents, fees or net profit revenues resulting from injury, destruction or loss of real or personal property, or natural resources;

• Loss of subsistence use of natural resources that are injured, destroyed, or lost;

• Lost profits or impairment of earning capacity due to injury, destruction or loss of real or personal property or natural resources; and

• Net cost of providing increased or additional public services necessitated by removal activities following a discharge of oil such as protection from fire, safety or health hazards, and loss of subsistence use of natural resources.

OPA contains statutory caps on liability and damages; such caps do not apply to direct cleanup costs. Effective March 23, 2023, the USCG adjusted the limits of OPA liability for non-tank vessels (e.g. drybulk) to the greater of $1,300 per gross ton or $1,076,000 (subject to periodic adjustment for inflation). These limits of liability may not apply if an incident was caused by the violation of an applicable United States federal safety, construction or operating regulation by a responsible party (or its agent, employee or a person acting pursuant to a contractual relationship), or a responsible party's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The limitation on liability similarly may not apply if the responsible party fails or refuses to (i) report the incident where the responsibility party knows or has reason to know of the incident; (ii) reasonably cooperate and assist as requested in connection with oil removal activities; or (iii) without sufficient cause, comply with an order issued under the Federal Water Pollution Act (Section 311 (c), (e)) or the Intervention on the High Seas Act.

CERCLA contains a similar liability regime whereby owners and operators of vessels are liable for cleanup, removal and remedial costs, as well as damage for, injury to, or destruction or loss of, natural resources, including the reasonable costs associated with assessing same, and health assessments or health effects studies. There is no liability if the discharge of a hazardous substance results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war. Liability under CERCLA is limited to the greater of $300 per gross ton or $5.0 million for vessels carrying a hazardous substance as cargo or residue and the greater of $300 per gross ton or $500,000 for any other vessel. These limits do not apply (rendering the responsible person liable for the total cost of response and damages) if the release or threat of release of a hazardous substance resulted from willful misconduct or gross negligence, or the primary cause of the release was a violation of applicable safety, construction or operating standards or regulations. The limitation on liability also does not apply if the responsible person fails or refused to provide all reasonable cooperation and assistance as requested in connection with response activities where the vessel is subject to OPA.

OPA and CERCLA both require owners and operators of vessels to establish and maintain with the USCG evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet the maximum amount of liability to which the particular responsible person may be subject. Vessel owners and operators may satisfy their financial responsibility obligations by providing a proof of insurance, a surety bond, qualification as a self-insurer or a guarantee. We have complied with the regulations by providing a certificate of financial responsibility from third party entities that are acceptable to the USCG.

We currently maintain pollution liability coverage insurance in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident for each of our vessels. If the damages from a catastrophic spill were to exceed our insurance coverages, it could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation.

OPA and CERCLA each preserve the right to recover damages under existing law, including maritime tort law. Also, OPA specifically permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, provided they accept, at a minimum, the levels of liability established under OPA; some states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for oil spills. In some cases, states which have enacted such legislation have not yet issued implementing regulations defining vessel owners' responsibilities under these laws. We intend to comply with all applicable state regulations in the ports where our

vessels call. We believe that we are in compliance with all applicable existing state requirements. In addition, we intend to comply with all future applicable state regulations in the ports where our vessels call.

Other Environmental Initiatives

The United States Clean Water Act (the "CWA") prohibits the discharge of oil, hazardous substances and ballast water in United States navigable waters unless authorized by a duly-issued permit or exemption and imposes strict liability in the form of penalties for any unauthorized discharges. The CWA also imposes substantial liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages and complements the remedies available under OPA and CERCLA. Furthermore, many U.S. states that border a navigable waterway have enacted environmental pollution laws that impose strict liability on a person for removal costs and damages resulting from a discharge of oil or a release of a hazardous substance. These laws may be more stringent than United States federal law. In 2015, the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and the Army Corps of Engineers ("Corps") expanded the definition of "waters of the United States" ("WOTUS"), thereby expanding federal authority under the CWA. However, in April 2020, the EPA and the Corps published a final rule replacing the 2015 rules, and significantly reducing the waters subject to federal regulation under the CWA. On August 30, 2021, a federal court struck down the replacement rule and, on December 7, 2021, the EPA and the Corps published a proposed rule that would put back into place the pre-2015 definition of "waters of the United States," updated to reflect Supreme Court decisions, while the agencies continue to consult with stakeholders on future regulatory actions. As a result of such recent developments, substantial uncertainty exists regarding the scope of waters protected under the CWA.

The EPA and the USCG have enacted rules relating to ballast water discharge, which requires the installation of equipment on vessels to treat ballast water before it is discharged or the implementation of other port facility disposal arrangements or procedures. The EPA will regulate these ballast water discharges and other discharges incidental to the normal operation of certain vessels within United States waters pursuant to the Vessel Incidental Discharge Act ("VIDA"), which was signed into law on December 4, 2018 and replaces the 2013 Vessel General Permit ("VGP") program (which authorizes discharges incidental to operations of commercial vessels and contains numeric ballast water discharge limits for most vessels) and current USCG ballast water management regulations adopted under the U.S. National Invasive Species Act ("NISA"). VIDA establishes a new framework for the regulation of vessel incidental discharges under the CWA, requires the EPA to develop performance standards for those discharges within two years of enactment, and requires the USCG to develop implementation, compliance, and enforcement regulations within two years of EPA's promulgation of standards. Under VIDA, all provisions of the 2013 VGP and USCG regulations regarding ballast water treatment remain in force and effect until the EPA and USCG regulations are finalized. Non-military, non-recreational vessels greater than 79 feet in length must continue to comply with the requirements of the VGP, including submission of a Notice of Intent ("NOI") or retention of a PARI form and submission of annual reports. On October 26, 2020, the EPA published a proposed rule establishing national standards for discharges of ballast water under VIDA. Within two years after the EPA publishes its final standards, the USCG must develop corresponding implementation, compliance, and enforcement regulations regarding ballast water .

In addition, certain states have enacted additional discharge standards beyond the requirements of the VIDA. These state specific standards introduce more stringent requirements, such as those further restricting ballast water discharges and preventing the introduction of invasive species. The VIDA and state-specific regulations and any similar restrictions enacted in the future may increase the costs of operating in the relevant waters.

The U.S. Clean Air Act (the "CAA") requires the EPA to promulgate standards applicable to certain air pollutants, including volatile organic compounds. The CAA also requires states to draft State Implementation Plans ("SIPs") designed to attain national health-based air quality standards in each state. State-specific SIPs may include regulations concerning emissions resulting from vessel loading and unloading operations, including the installation of vapor control equipment.

Our operations occasionally generate and require the transportation, treatment and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes that are subject to the requirements of the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA,") or comparable state, local or foreign requirements. The RCRA imposes significant record keeping

and reporting requirements on transporters of hazardous waste. In addition, from time to time we arrange for the disposal of hazardous waste or hazardous substances at off-site disposal facilities. If such materials are improperly disposed of by third parties, we may still be held liable for cleanup costs under applicable laws.

In October 2009, the EU amended a directive to impose criminal sanctions for illicit ship-source discharges of polluting substances, including minor discharges, if committed with intent, recklessly or with serious negligence and the discharges individually or in the aggregate result in deterioration of the quality of water. Aiding and abetting the discharge of a polluting substance may also lead to criminal penalties. Member States were required to enact laws or regulations to comply with the directive by the end of 2010. Criminal liability for pollution may result in substantial penalties or fines and increased civil liability claims. The directive applies to all types of vessels, irrespective of their flag, but certain exceptions apply to warships or where human safety or the safety of the ship is in danger.

The European Union has adopted several regulations and directives requiring, among other things, more frequent inspections of high-risk ships, as determined by type, age, and flag as well as the number of times the ship has been detained. The European Union also adopted and extended a ban on substandard ships and enacted a minimum ban period and a definitive ban for repeated offenses. Regulations also provided the European Union with greater authority and control over classification societies, by imposing more requirements on classification societies and providing for fines or penalty payments for organizations that failed to comply. Furthermore, the EU has implemented regulations requiring vessels to use reduced sulfur content fuel for their main and auxiliary engines. The EU Directive 2005/33/EC (amending Directive 1999/32/EC) introduced requirements parallel to those in Annex VI relating to the sulfur content of marine fuels.

Greenhouse Gas Regulation

Currently, GHG emissions from international shipping are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which entered into force in 2005 and pursuant to which adopting countries have been required to implement national programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with targets extended through 2020. International negotiations are continuing with respect to a successor to the Kyoto Protocol, and restrictions on shipping emissions may be included in any new treaty. In December 2009, more than 27 nations, including the U.S. and China, signed the Copenhagen Accord, which includes a non-binding commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris resulted in the Paris Agreement, which entered into force on November 4, 2016 and does not directly limit greenhouse gas emissions from ships. Although the U.S. withdrew from the Paris Agreement effective November 4, 2020, the U.S. rejoined the Paris Agreement on February 19, 2021, following a January 20, 2021, executive order by U.S. President Biden.

Although the international agreements discussed above do not currently provide for GHG emissions limits or reporting for international shipping, the IMO and EU have imposed reporting requirements and the IMO has proposed emissions requirements. As of January 1, 2019, owners and operators of ships above 5,000 gross tonnage are required to have a documented plan in place to monitor CO 2 emissions to comply with the IMO's data collection system ("IMO DCS") requirement. The Company updated its existing Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plans ("SEEMP") in 2018 documenting the methodologies we decided to use for collecting and reporting the required data to flag state. Our updated SEEMPs have been verified by a recognized independent organization and we are collecting all relevant data in our onboard data collection system since the start of 2019. Starting January 1, 2020, a recognized independent organization will review and certify the annual emissions data submitted by each vessel and issue each vessel a Statement of Compliance. The independent organization will then submit the data annually to the IMO Ship Fuel Oil Consumption Database. The IMO will utilize this data to produce an annual report to the MEPC, summarizing the data collected.

The Company also established and received approval for its EU Monitoring, Reporting, Verification ("MRV") monitoring plans from an independent verifier in 2017. The reporting requirements of the EU MRV are similar to those under IMO DCS but only apply to ships calling at European Economic Area (EU, Norway and Iceland) ports. Data collection takes place on a per voyage basis and started January 1, 2018. The reported CO 2 emissions, together with additional data, are independently verified before being sent to a central database managed by the European Maritime Safety Agency ("EMSA"). The aggregated ship emission and efficiency data is published annually by the

European Commission starting June 30, 2019. Also, on July 14, 2021, the European Commission adopted a series of legislative proposals setting out how it intends to achieve climate neutrality in the EU by 2050, including extending its emissions trading system ("ETS") to the maritime sector. In 2022, the European Parliament (EP), the Council of the European Union and the European Commission reached an agreement on including shipping in the EU's Emission Trading System ("EU ETS"), beginning in 2024. Subject to final adoption during 2023, the extension of the emissions trading system will cover CO 2 emissions from ships above 5,000 gross tonnage. The obligations will be gradually phased in over a three--year period, such that allowances for 100% of verified emissions would not be required for several years. The Company is evaluating the potential impact of shipping's inclusion in the EU ETS will have on the Company and its operations.

During MEPC 76 in June 2021, the IMO approved amendments to Annex VI to cut the carbon intensity of existing ships. The amendments will require ships to combine a technical and an operational approach to reduce their carbon intensity, in line with the ambition of the Initial IMO GHG Strategy, which aims to reduce carbon intensity of international shipping by 40% by 2030, compared to 2008. The amendments include (1) a technical requirement to reduce carbon intensity based on a new Energy Efficiency Existing Ship Index ("EEXI") and (2) operational carbon intensity reduction requirements, based on a new operational carbon intensity indicator ("CII"). These amendments entered into force on November 1, 2022, with the requirements for EEXI and CII certification coming into effect from January 1, 2023. The Company has evaluated the impact of EEXI requirements and determined that the majority of our fleet will be minimally impacted with some of the oldest ships requiring the application of an engine power limitation that may reduce operational top speed. The Company is working with Class and Flag to complete the EEXI certification of all vessels by the applicable statutory deadline which is the first periodical survey date for each ship within 2023. EEXI requirements will ultimately lead the oldest ships in the drybulk fleet to slow down significantly which will limit drybulk supply and could positively impact rates. The Company updated its existing SEEMP in 2022 documenting the methodologies we decided to use for complying with the CII requirements. Our updated SEEMPs have been verified by a recognized independent organization and we are collecting all relevant data in our onboard data collection system since the start of 2019. The Company sees limited impact through 2025 by which time the IMO will begin a review of the CII requirements. The most immediate impact of CII requirements coming into effect will likely be the need for increased collaboration between the Company and charterers to actively manage CII scoring against minimum requirements.

Any passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the IMO, the EU, the U.S. or other countries where we operate, or any treaty adopted at the international level to succeed the Kyoto Protocol or Paris Agreement, that restricts emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to make significant financial expenditures which we cannot predict with certainty at this time. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Even in the absence of climate control legislation, our business may be indirectly affected to the extent that climate change may result in sea level changes or more intense weather events such as those which may present a risk of damage or loss to our vessels.

Vessel Security Regulations

Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security such as the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 ("MTSA"). To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the USCG issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. The regulations also impose requirements on certain ports and facilities, some of which are regulated by the EPA. We have implemented measures to comply with the requirements when calling at U.S. ports.

Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to SOLAS created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new Chapter V became effective in July 2004 and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, and mandates compliance with the International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code ("ISPS Code"). The ISPS Code is designed to enhance the security of ports and ships against terrorism. Amendments to SOLAS Chapter VII, made mandatory in 2004, apply to vessels transporting dangerous goods and require those vessels be in compliance with the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code. To trade

internationally, a vessel must attain an International Ship Security Certificate ("ISSC") from a recognized security organization approved by the vessel's flag state. Among the various requirements are:

• On-board installation of automatic identification systems to provide a means for the automatic transmission of safety-related information from among similarly equipped ships and shore stations, including information on a ship's identity, position, course, speed and navigational status;

• On board installation of ship security alert systems, which do not sound on the vessel but only alert the authorities on shore; the development of vessel security plans;

• Ship identification number to be permanently marked on a vessel's hull;

• A continuous synopsis record kept onboard showing a vessel's history including the name of the ship, the state whose flag the ship is entitled to fly, the date on which the ship was registered with that state, the ship's identification number, the port at which the ship is registered and the name of the registered owner(s) and their registered address; and

• Compliance with flag state security certification requirements.

Ships operating without a valid certificate may be detained at port until it obtains an ISSC, or it may be expelled from port, or refused entry at port.

Furthermore, additional security measures could be required in the future which could have a significant financial impact on us. The USCG regulations, intended to be aligned with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. vessels from MTSA vessel security measures, provided such vessels have on board a valid ISSC that attests to the vessel's compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. Our vessels have a valid ISSC and it is our intent to maintain such certificates. We have implemented the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code.

Financial Regulations

Our business operations in countries outside the United States are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the FCPA, as well as economic sanctions and trade embargoes administered by Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"). The FCPA prohibits bribery of foreign officials and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. OFAC administers and enforces economic sanctions and trade embargoes based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals.

In November 2015, the Company filed a voluntary self-disclosure report with OFAC regarding certain apparent violations of U.S. sanctions regulations in the provision of shipping services for third party charterers with respect to the transportation of cargo to or from Myanmar (formerly Burma). The Company had a different senior management team at the time of the apparent violations which occurred between 2011 and 2014. The Company's new senior management and new Board of Directors self-reported the apparent violation and cooperated fully with OFAC's investigation and has since implemented robust remedial measures and significantly enhanced its compliance safeguards.

On January 23, 2020, Eagle Shipping International (USA) LLC ("ESI"), a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a settlement agreement with OFAC in which ESI agreed to make a one-time payment to the U.S. Department of the Treasury in the amount of $1.125 million and undertake certain compliance commitments in exchange for OFAC agreeing to release and forever discharge the Company and its subsidiaries, including ESI, without any finding of fault, from any and all civil liability in connection with the apparent violations. The settlement does not constitute an admission of fault or wrongdoing by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Inspection by Classification Societies

Every ocean-going vessel must be inspected and certified by a classification society. The classification society certifies that the vessel is "in class," signifying that the vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification society and complies with applicable rules and regulations of the vessel's country of registry and the international conventions of which that country is a member. In addition, where surveys are required by international conventions and corresponding laws and ordinances of a flag state, the classification society will undertake them on application or by official order, acting on behalf of the authorities concerned.

The classification society also undertakes on request other surveys and checks that are required by regulations and requirements of the flag state. These surveys are subject to agreements made in each individual case and/or to the regulations of the country concerned.

For maintenance of the class certification, regular and extraordinary surveys of hull, machinery, including the electrical plant, and any special equipment classed are required to be performed as follows:

• Annual Surveys . For ocean-going ships, annual surveys are conducted for the hull and the machinery, including the electrical plant, and where applicable for special equipment classed, within three months before or after each anniversary date of the date of commencement of the class period indicated in the certificate.

• Intermediate Surveys . Intermediate surveys typically are required two and one-half years after the vessel is commissioned, and thereafter, at five year intervals. The first three intermediate surveys may be conducted while the vessel remains in the water, and thereafter, the vessel must be dry-docked for each Intermediate Survey.

• Class Renewal Surveys . Class renewal surveys, also known as special surveys, are carried out for the ship's hull, machinery, including the electrical plant and for any special equipment classed, at the intervals indicated by the character of classification for the hull. At the special survey the vessel is thoroughly examined, including audio-gauging to determine the thickness of the steel structures. Should the thickness be found to be less than class requirements, the classification society would prescribe steel renewals. The classification society may grant a one year grace period for completion of the special survey. Substantial amounts of money may have to be spent for steel renewals to pass a special survey if the vessel experiences excessive wear and tear. In lieu of the special survey approximately every five years, depending on whether a grace period was granted, a shipowner has the option of arranging with the classification society for the vessel's hull or machinery to be on a continuous survey cycle, in which every part of the vessel would be surveyed within a five year cycle. At an owner's application, the surveys required for class renewal may be split according to an agreed schedule to extend over the entire period of class. This process is referred to as continuous class renewal.

All areas subject to survey as defined by the classification society are required to be surveyed at least once per class period, unless shorter intervals between surveys are prescribed elsewhere. The period between two subsequent surveys of each area must not exceed five years.

Most vessels are also drydocked every 30 to 60 months for inspection of the underwater parts and for repairs related to inspections. If any defects are found, the classification surveyor will issue a "recommendation" which must be rectified by the shipowner within prescribed time limits.

Most insurance underwriters make it a condition for insurance coverage that a vessel be certified as "in class" by a classification society which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies (the "IACS"). In December 2013, the IACS adopted new harmonized Common Structure Rules, which apply to bulkcarriers constructed on or after July 1, 2015. All our vessels must be certified as being "in class" prior to their delivery under our standard purchase contracts and memorandum of agreement. If the vessel is not class certified on the date of closing, we have no obligation to take delivery of the vessel. We have all of our vessels and intend to have all vessels that we acquire in the future, classed by IACS members.

Risk of Loss and Liability Insurance

General

The operation of any drybulk vessel includes risks such as mechanical failure, collision, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. In addition, there is always an inherent possibility of a marine casualty, including oil spills (e.g., fuel oil), other environmental mishaps and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. OPA, which imposes liability upon owners, operators and demise charterers of vessels trading in the United States exclusive economic zone for certain oil pollution accidents in the United States, has made liability insurance more expensive for shipowners and operators trading in the U.S. market.

While we maintain hull and machinery insurance, loss of hire insurance, war risks insurance, protection and indemnity cover and freight, demurrage and defense cover for our owned fleet in amounts that we believe to be prudent to cover normal risks in our operations, we may not be able to achieve or maintain this level of coverage throughout a vessel's useful life. Furthermore, while we believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate, not all risks can be insured and there can be no guarantee that any specific claim will be paid or that we will always be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates.

Hull & Machinery and War Risks Insurance

We maintain marine hull, machinery and war risks insurances, which cover the risk of damage or actual or constructive total loss for all of our vessels. Our vessels are each covered up to at least their fair market value with a deductible of $100,000 per vessel per incident.

Protection and Indemnity Insurance Coverage

Protection and Indemnity Insurance is a form of mutual indemnity insurance provided by protection and indemnity associations ("P&I Associations"), which insure our third-party liabilities in connection with our shipping activities. This includes third-party liability and other related expenses resulting from the injury, illness or death of crew, passengers and other third parties, the loss or damage to cargo, claims arising from collisions with other vessels, damage to other third-party property, pollution and other related costs, including wreck removal. Subject to the "capping" discussed below except for pollution is unlimited.

Our current Protection and Indemnity Insurance coverage for pollution is $1.0 billion per vessel per incident. The 13 P&I Associations that comprise the International Group of P&I Association insure approximately 90% of the world's commercial tonnage and have entered into a pooling agreement to reinsure each association's liabilities. As a member of a P&I Association which is a member of the International Group, we are subject to calls payable to the associations based on the Company's claim records as well as the claim records of all other members of the individual associations and members of the pool of P&I Associations comprising the International Group.

Competition

We compete with a large number of international drybulk owners. The international shipping industry is highly competitive and fragmented with no single owner accounting for more than 2.6% (1) of the on-the-water drybulk fleet, measured by vessel count, as of December 31, 2022. In addition, as of December 31, 2022, there are approximately 13,100 drybulk vessels (1) over 10,000 dwt which total approximately 972 million dwt (1) . We compete with other owners of drybulk vessels, primarily in the midsize segment and (to a lesser extent) the Handysize and Panamax segments. Many of our competitors are privately-held companies.

Competition in the shipping industry varies according to the nature of the contractual relationship as well as the specific commodity being shipped. Our business will fluctuate as a result of changes in the supply and demand for

drybulk commodities and also the main patterns of trade in these commodities. Competition in virtually all bulk trades is intense and based primarily on supply of ships and demand for our ocean transportation services. We compete for charters on the basis of price, vessel location, size, age and condition of the vessel, as well as on our reputation as an owner and operator. Increasingly, major customers are demonstrating a preference for modern vessels based on concerns about the environmental and operational risks associated with older vessels. Consequently, we believe owners of large modern fleets have gained a competitive advantage over owners of older fleets.

(1)Source: Clarksons (February 2023)

Seasonality

Demand for vessel capacity has historically exhibited seasonal variations and, as a result, fluctuations in freight rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results for our vessels trading in the spot market. The midsize drybulk market, as measured by the BSI, is typically strongest in the fall (due to both increased North American grain shipments and higher coal purchases for heating fuel ahead of the cold winter months). There is also seasonal volatility in the relative strength of the Atlantic basin as compared to the Pacific basin. From 2016 through 2022, the long-term average market premium in the Atlantic basin was approximately 30% (1) . This premium is generally highest in the months of December through February, primarily attributable to a general market slowdown in the weeks leading up to the Lunar New Year and due to an elevated number of newbuild vessels that are typically delivered in January, relative to other months.

(1)Source: Clarksons (February 2023)

Value of Assets and Cash Requirements

The replacement costs of comparable new vessels may be above or below the book value of our fleet. The market value of our fleet may be below book value when market conditions are weak and exceed book value when markets are strong. In common with other shipowners, we may consider asset redeployment which at times may include the sale of vessels at less than their book value.

Exchange Controls

Under Marshall Islands law, there are currently no restrictions on the export or import of capital, including foreign exchange controls or restrictions that affect the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of our common stock.

Tax Considerations

The following is a discussion of the material Marshall Islands and United States federal income tax considerations relevant to owning common stock by a United States Holder or a Non-United States Holder, (each as defined herein). This discussion does not purport to deal with the tax consequences of owning the common stock to all categories of investors, some of which (such as financial institutions, regulated investment companies, real estate investment trusts, tax-exempt organizations, insurance companies, persons holding our common stock as part of a hedging, integrated, conversion or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in securities that have elected the mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities, persons liable for alternative minimum tax, persons who are investors in pass-through entities, dealers in securities or currencies, persons required to recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than when such income is reported on an "applicable financial statement," persons subject to the "base erosion and anti-avoidance" tax, persons who own, directly or constructively, 10% or more of our common stock and investors whose functional currency is not the United States dollar) may be subject to special rules. This discussion deals only with holders who own common stock as a capital asset. Shareholders are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences arising

in their own particular situation under United States federal, state, local or foreign law of the ownership of our common stock.

Marshall Islands Tax Considerations

In the opinion of Seward & Kissel LLP, the following are the material Marshall Islands tax consequences of our activities to us and shareholders of our common stock. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands. Under current Marshall Islands law, we are not subject to tax on income or capital gains and no Marshall Islands withholding tax will be imposed upon payments of dividends by us to our shareholders.

United States Federal Income Tax Considerations

In the opinion of Seward & Kissel LLP, our United States tax counsel, the following are the material United States federal income tax consequences to us of our activities and to United States Holders and to Non-United States Holders of our common stock. The following discussion of United States federal income tax matters is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), judicial decisions, administrative pronouncements and existing and proposed regulations issued by the United States Department of the Treasury, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. In addition, the discussion below is based, in part, on the description of our business as described in Item 1. Business in this Annual Report and assumes that we conduct our business as described in that section.

We have made, or will make, special United States federal income tax elections in respect of each of our ship owning or operating subsidiaries that is potentially subject to tax as a result of deriving income attributable to the transportation of cargoes to or from the United States. The effect of the special U.S. tax elections is to ignore or disregard the subsidiaries for which elections have been made as separate taxable entities and to treat them as part of their parent, the "Company." Therefore, for purposes of the following discussion, the Company, and not the subsidiaries subject to this special election, will be treated as the owner and operator of the vessels and as receiving the income therefrom.

United States Federal Income Taxation of Our Company

Taxation of Operating Income: In General

The Company currently earns, and anticipates that it will continue to earn, substantially all its income from the hiring or leasing of vessels for use on a time or voyage charter basis or from the performance of services directly related to those uses, all of which we refer to as "shipping income."

Unless exempt from United States federal income taxation under the rules of Section 883 of the Code ("Section 883"), as discussed below, a foreign corporation such as Eagle will be subject to United States federal income taxation on its "shipping income" that is treated as derived from sources within the United States, to which we refer as "United States source shipping income." For tax purposes, "United States source shipping income" includes 50% of shipping income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States.

Shipping income attributable to transportation exclusively between non-United States ports will be considered to be 100% derived from sources outside the United States. Shipping income derived from sources outside the United States will not be subject to any United States federal income tax.

Shipping income attributable to transportation exclusively between United States ports is considered to be 100% derived from United States sources. However, the Company is not permitted by United States law to engage in the transportation of cargoes that produces 100% United States source income.

Unless exempt from tax under Section 883, the Company's gross United States source shipping income would be subject to a 4% tax imposed without allowance for deductions as described below.

Exemption of Operating Income from United States Federal Income Taxation

Under Section 883 and the regulations thereunder, a foreign corporation will be exempt from United States federal income taxation on its United States source shipping income if:

• it is organized in a qualified foreign country, which is one that grants an "equivalent exemption" from tax to corporations organized in the United States in respect of each category of shipping income for which exemption is being claimed under Section 883 and to which we refer as the "Country of Organization Test"; and

• one of the following tests is met:

◦ more than 50% of the value of its shares is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by qualified shareholders, which as defined includes individuals who are "residents" of a qualified foreign country, to which we refer as the "50% Ownership Test";

◦ subject to an exception for closely-held corporations, its shares are "primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market" in a qualified foreign country or in the United States, to which we refer as the "Publicly-Traded Test"; or

◦ it is a "controlled foreign corporation" and satisfies an ownership test, to which, collectively, we refer to as the "CFC Test."

The Republic of the Marshall Islands, the jurisdiction where the Company is incorporated, has been officially recognized by the United States Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") as a qualified foreign country that grants the requisite "equivalent exemption" from tax in respect of each category of shipping income the Company earns and currently expects to earn in the future. Therefore, the Company will be exempt from United States federal income taxation with respect to its United States source shipping income if it satisfies any one of the 50% Ownership Test, the Publicly-Traded Test, or the CFC Test.

For our 2022 taxable year, we believe that we satisfied the Publicly-Traded Test, as discussed in more detail below. The Company does not currently anticipate a circumstance under which it would be able to satisfy the 50% Ownership Test or the CFC Test.

Publicly-Traded Test

The regulations under Section 883 provide, in pertinent part, that shares of a foreign corporation will be considered to be "primarily traded" on an established securities market in a country if the number of shares of each class of shares that are traded during any taxable year on all established securities markets in that country exceeds the number of shares in each such class that are traded during that year on established securities markets in any other single country. For the 2022 taxable year, the Company's common stock, which is its sole class of issued and outstanding shares, was "primarily traded" on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.

Under the regulations, the Company's common stock will be considered to be "regularly traded" on an established securities market if one or more classes of its shares representing more than 50% of its outstanding shares, by both total combined voting power of all classes of shares entitled to vote and total value, are listed on such market, to which we refer as the "listing threshold." Since our common stock, which is our sole class of issued and outstanding shares, was listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we believe that we satisfy the listing threshold.

It is further required that with respect to each class of shares relied upon to meet the listing threshold, (i) such class of shares is traded on the market, other than in minimal quantities, on at least 60 days during the taxable year or one-sixth of the days in a short taxable year; and (ii) the aggregate number of shares of such class of shares traded on such market during the taxable year is at least 10% of the average number of shares of such class of shares outstanding during such year or as appropriately adjusted in the case of a short taxable year. We believe the Company will satisfy the trading frequency and trading volume tests. Even if this were not the case, the regulations

provide that the trading frequency and trading volume tests will be deemed satisfied if, as is the case with the Company's common stock, such class of shares is traded on an established market in the United States and such shares are regularly quoted by dealers making a market in such shares.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the regulations provide, in pertinent part, that a class of shares will not be considered to be "regularly traded" on an established securities market for any taxable year in which 50% or more of the vote and value of the outstanding shares of such class are owned, actually or constructively under specified share attribution rules, on more than half the days during the taxable year by persons who each own 5% or more of the vote and value of such class of outstanding shares, to which we refer as the "5 Percent Override Rule."

For purposes of being able to determine the persons who actually or constructively own 5% or more of the vote and value of the Company's common stock ("5% Shareholders"), the regulations permit the Company to rely on those persons that are identified on Schedule 13G and Schedule 13D filings with the SEC, as owning 5% or more of the Company's common stock. The regulations further provide that an investment company which is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, will not be treated as a 5% Shareholder for such purposes.

In the event the 5 Percent Override Rule is triggered, the regulations provide that the 5 Percent Override Rule will nevertheless not apply if the Company can establish that within the group of 5% Shareholders, there are sufficient qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified shareholders in such group from owning 50% or more of the Company's common stock for more than half the number of days during the taxable year, which we refer to as the "5 Percent Override Exception."

Based on the ownership and trading of our stock in 2022, we believe that we satisfied the publicly traded test and qualified for the Section 883 exemption in 2022. Even if we do qualify for the Section 883 exemption in 2022, there can be no assurance that changes and shifts in the ownership of our stock by 5% shareholders will not preclude us from qualifying for the Section 883 exemption in future taxable years.

Taxation in Absence of Section 883 Exemption

If the benefits of Section 883 are unavailable, the Company's United States source shipping income would be subject to a 4% tax imposed by Section 887 of the Code on a gross basis, without the benefit of deductions, to the extent that such income is not considered to be "effectively connected" with the conduct of a United States trade or business, as described below. Since under the sourcing rules described above, no more than 50% of the Company's shipping income would be treated as being United States source shipping income, the maximum effective rate of United States federal income tax on our shipping income would never exceed 2% under the 4% gross basis tax regime. Based on the current operation of our vessels, if we were subject to 4% gross basis tax, our United States federal income tax liability would be approximately $4.6 million and $2.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. However, we can give no assurance that the operation of our vessels, which are under the control of third party charterers, will not change such that our United States federal income tax liability would be substantially higher.

To the extent the Company's United States source shipping income is considered to be "effectively connected" with the conduct of a United States trade or business, as described below, any such "effectively connected" United States source shipping income, net of applicable deductions, would be subject to United States federal income tax, currently imposed at a rate of 21%. In addition, the Company may be subject to the 30% "branch profits" tax on earnings effectively connected with the conduct of such trade or business, as determined after allowance for certain adjustments, and on certain interest paid or deemed paid attributable to the conduct of the Company's United States trade or business.

The Company's United States source shipping income would be considered "effectively connected" with the conduct of a United States trade or business only if:

• the Company has, or is considered to have, a fixed place of business in the United States involved in the earning of United States source shipping income; and

• substantially all of the Company's United States source shipping income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, such as the operation of a vessel that follows a published schedule with repeated sailings at regular intervals between the same points for voyages that begin or end in the United States.

United States Taxation of Gain on Sale of Vessels

Assuming that any decision on a vessel sale is made from and attributable to the United States office of the Company, as we believe likely to be the case as the Company is currently structured, then any gain derived from the sale of any such vessel will be treated as derived from United States sources and subject to United States federal income tax as "effectively connected" income (determined under rules different from those discussed above) under the above described net income tax regime. If the Company were to qualify for exemption from tax under Section 883 in respect of the shipping income derived from the international operation of its vessels, then gain from the sale of any such vessel should likewise be exempt from tax under Section 883.

United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders

As used herein, the term "United States Holder" means a beneficial owner of our common stock that is an individual United States citizen or resident, a United States corporation or other United States entity taxable as a corporation, an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source, or a trust if (i) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary jurisdiction over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) it has in place an election to be treated as a United States person for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

If a partnership holds our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend upon the status of the partner and upon the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner in a partnership holding our common stock, you are encouraged to consult your tax advisor.

Distributions

Subject to the discussion of passive foreign investment companies below, any distributions made by the Company with respect to its common stock to a United States Holder will generally constitute dividends to the extent of the Company's current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined under United States federal income tax principles. Distributions in excess of such earnings and profits will be treated first as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the United States Holder's tax basis in his common stock on a dollar-for-dollar basis and thereafter as capital gain. Because the Company is not a United States corporation, United States Holders that are corporations will not be entitled to claim a dividend received deduction with respect to any distributions they receive from us. Dividends paid with respect to the Company's common stock will generally be treated as "passive category income" for purposes of computing allowable foreign tax credits for United States foreign tax credit purposes.

Dividends paid on the Company's common stock to a United States Holder who is an individual, trust or estate (a "United States Non-Corporate Holder") will generally be treated as "qualified dividend income" that is taxable to such United States Non-Corporate Holder at preferential tax rates provided that (1) the common stock is readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States (such as the New York Stock Exchange on which the Company's common stock is traded); (2) the Company is not a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year during which the dividend is paid or the immediately preceding taxable year (which we do not believe we have been, are or will be); (3) the United States Non-Corporate Holder has owned the common stock for more than 60 days in the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the date on which the common stock becomes ex-dividend; and (4) the United States Non-Corporate Holder is not under an obligation to make related payments with respect to positions in substantially similar or related property.

There is no assurance that any dividends paid on the Company's common stock will be eligible for these preferential rates in the hands of a United States Non-Corporate Holder, although we believe that they will be so eligible. Any dividends out of earnings, and profits the Company pays, which are not eligible for these preferential rates will be taxed as ordinary income to a United States Non-Corporate Holder.

Special rules may apply to any "extraordinary dividend," generally, a dividend in an amount which is equal to or in excess of 10% of a shareholder's adjusted basis in a common share paid by the Company. If the Company pays an "extraordinary dividend" on its common stock that is treated as "qualified dividend income," then any loss derived by a United States Non-Corporate Holder from the sale or exchange of such common stock will be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent of such dividend.

Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Common Stock

Assuming the Company does not constitute a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, a United States Holder generally will recognize taxable gain or loss upon a sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized by the United States Holder from such sale, exchange or other disposition and the United States Holder's tax basis in such stock. Such gain or loss will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the United States Holder's holding period is greater than one year at the time of the sale, exchange or other disposition. Such capital gain or loss will generally be treated as United States source income or loss, as applicable, for United States foreign tax credit purposes. Long-term capital gains of United States Non-Corporate Holders are currently eligible for reduced rates of taxation. A United States Holder's ability to deduct capital losses is subject to certain limitations.

Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences

Special United States federal income tax rules apply to a United States Holder that holds shares in a foreign corporation classified as a "passive foreign investment company" for United States federal income tax purposes. In general, the Company will be treated as a passive foreign investment company with respect to a United States Holder if, for any taxable year in which such holder holds the Company's common stock, either:

• at least 75% of our gross income for such taxable year consists of passive income (e.g., dividends, interest, capital gains and rents derived other than in the active conduct of a rental business); or

• at least 50% of the average value of our assets during such taxable year produce, or are held for the production of, passive income

Income earned, or deemed earned, by the Company in connection with the performance of services would not constitute passive income. By contrast, rental income would generally constitute "passive income" unless the Company was treated under specific rules as deriving its rental income in the active conduct of a trade or business.

Based on the Company's current operations and future projections, we do not believe that the Company has been or is, nor do we expect the Company to become, a passive foreign investment company with respect to any taxable year. Although there is no legal authority directly on point, our belief is based principally on the position that, for purposes of determining whether the Company is a passive foreign investment company, the gross income it derives from its time chartering and voyage chartering activities should constitute services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, such income should not constitute passive income, and the assets that the Company owns and operates in connection with the production of such income, in particular, the vessels, should not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether the Company is a passive foreign investment company.

We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and IRS pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. In addition, we have obtained an opinion from our counsel, Seward & Kissel LLP, that, based upon the Company's operations as described herein, its income from

time charters and voyage charters should not be treated as passive income for purposes of determining whether it is a passive foreign investment company. However, in the absence of any legal authority specifically relating to the statutory provisions governing passive foreign investment companies, the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS or a court could disagree with our position. In addition, although the Company intends to conduct its affairs in a manner to avoid being classified as a passive foreign investment company with respect to any taxable year, we cannot assure you that the nature of its operations will not change in the future.

As discussed more fully below, if the Company were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, a United States Holder would be subject to different taxation rules depending on whether the United States Holder makes an election to treat the Company as a "Qualified Electing Fund," which election we refer to as a "QEF election." As an alternative to making a QEF election, a United States Holder should be able to make a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the Company's common stock, as discussed below. In addition, if we were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company, a United States holder would be required to file an annual report with the IRS for that year with respect to such holder's common stock.

Taxation of United States Holders Making a Timely QEF Election

If a United States Holder makes a timely QEF election, which United States Holder we refer to as an "Electing Holder," the Electing Holder must report for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the Company's ordinary earnings and net capital gain, if any, for each taxable year of the Company for which it is a passive foreign investment company that ends with or within the taxable year of the Electing Holder, regardless of whether or not distributions were received from the Company by the Electing Holder. No portion of any such inclusions of ordinary earnings will be treated as "qualified dividend income." Net capital gain inclusions of United States Non-Corporate Holders would be eligible for preferential capital gains tax rates. The Electing Holder's adjusted tax basis in the common stock will be increased to reflect taxed but undistributed earnings and profits. Distributions of earnings and profits that had been previously taxed will result in a corresponding reduction in the adjusted tax basis in the common stock and will not be taxed again once distributed. An Electing Holder would not, however, be entitled to a deduction for its pro rata share of any losses that the Company incurs with respect to any year. An Electing Holder would generally recognize capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock. A United States Holder would make a timely QEF election for shares of the Company by filing one copy of IRS Form 8621 with his United States federal income tax return for the first year in which he held such shares when the Company was a passive foreign investment company. If the Company were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, the Company would provide each United States Holder with all necessary information in order to make the QEF election described above.

Taxation of United States Holders Making a "Mark-to-Market" Election

Alternatively, if the Company were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year and, as we anticipate, its shares are treated as "marketable stock", a United States Holder would be allowed to make a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the Company's common stock, provided the United States Holder completes and files IRS Form 8621 in accordance with the relevant instructions and related Treasury regulations. If that election is made, the United States Holder generally would include as ordinary income in each taxable year the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the common stock at the end of the taxable year over such holder's adjusted tax basis in the common stock. The United States Holder would also be permitted an ordinary loss in respect of the excess, if any, of the United States Holder's adjusted tax basis in the common stock over its fair market value at the end of the taxable year, but only to the extent of the net amount previously included in income as a result of the mark-to-market election. A United States Holder's tax basis in his common stock would be adjusted to reflect any such income or loss amount. Gain realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock would be treated as ordinary income and any loss realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock would be treated as ordinary loss to the extent that such loss does not exceed the net mark-to-market gains previously included by the United States Holder. No income inclusions under this election will be treated as "qualified dividend income."

Taxation of United States Holders Not Making a Timely QEF or Mark-to-Market Election

Finally, if the Company were to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year, a United States Holder who does not make either a QEF election or a "mark-to-market" election for that year, whom we refer to as a "Non-Electing Holder" would be subject to special rules with respect to (1) any excess distribution (i.e., the portion of any distributions received by the Non-Electing Holder on the common stock in a taxable year in excess of 125% of the average annual distributions received by the Non-Electing Holder in the three preceding taxable years, or, if shorter, the Non-Electing Holder's holding period for the common stock) and (2) any gain realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock. Under these special rules:

• the excess distribution or gain would be allocated ratably over the Non-Electing Holder's aggregate holding period for the common stock;

• the amount allocated to the current taxable year, and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which the Company was a passive foreign investment company, would be taxed as ordinary income and would not be "qualified dividend income"; and

• the amount allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest rate of tax in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year and an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit would be imposed with respect to the resulting tax attributable to each such other taxable year.

These special rules would not apply to a qualified pension, profit sharing or other retirement trust or other tax-exempt organization that did not borrow money or otherwise utilize leverage in connection with its acquisition of the Company's common stock. If the Company is a passive foreign investment company and a Non-Electing Holder who is an individual dies while owning the Company's common stock, such holder's successor generally would not receive a step-up in tax basis with respect to such shares.

United States Federal Income Taxation of " Non-United States Holders "

A beneficial owner of common stock (other than a partnership) that is not a United States Holder is referred to herein as a "Non-United States Holder."

If a partnership holds our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend upon the status of the partner and upon the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner in a partnership holding our common stock, you are encouraged to consult your tax advisor.

Dividends on Common Stock

Non-United States Holders generally will not be subject to United States federal income tax or withholding tax on dividends received from the Company with respect to its common stock, unless that income is effectively connected with the Non-United States Holder's conduct of a trade or business in the United States. If the Non-United States Holder is entitled to the benefits of a United States income tax treaty with respect to those dividends, that income is taxable only if it is attributable to a permanent establishment maintained by the Non-United States Holder in the United States.

Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Common Stock

Non-United States Holders generally will not be subject to United States federal income tax or withholding tax on any gain realized upon the sale, exchange or other disposition of the Company's common stock, unless:

• The gain is effectively connected with the Non-United States Holder's conduct of a trade or business in the United States (and, if the Non-United States holder is entitled to the benefits of an income tax treaty with respect to that gain, that gain is attributable to a permanent establishment maintained by the Non-United States holder in the United States); or

• The Non-United States Holder is an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year of disposition and other conditions are met.

If the Non-United States Holder is engaged in a United States trade or business for United States federal income tax purposes, the income from the common stock, including dividends and the gain from the sale, exchange or other disposition of the shares, that is effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business will generally be subject to regular United States federal income tax in the same manner as discussed in the previous section relating to the taxation of United States Holders. In addition, if you are a corporate Non-United States Holder, your earnings and profits that are attributable to the effectively connected income, which are subject to certain adjustments, may be subject to an additional branch profits tax at a rate of 30%, or at a lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty.

Backup Withholding and Information Reporting

In general, dividend payments, or other taxable distributions, made within the United States to you will be subject to information reporting requirements if you are a non-corporate United States Holder. Such payments or distributions may also be subject to backup withholding tax if you are a non-corporate United States Holder and you:

• Fail to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number;

• Are notified by the IRS that you have failed to report all interest or dividends required to be shown on your federal income tax returns; or

• In certain circumstances, fail to comply with applicable certification requirements.

Non-United States Holders may be required to establish their exemption from information reporting and backup withholding by certifying their status on an appropriate IRS Form W-8.

If you are a Non-United States Holder and you sell your common stock to or through a United States office of a broker, the payment of the proceeds is subject to both United States backup withholding and information reporting unless you certify that you are a non-United States person, under penalties of perjury, or you otherwise establish an exemption. If you sell your common stock through a non-United States office of a non-United States broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United States, then information reporting and backup withholding generally will not apply to that payment. However, United States information reporting requirements, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that payment is made to you outside the United States, if you sell your common stock through a non-United States office of a broker that is a United States person or has some other contacts with the United States. Such information reporting requirements will not apply, however, if the broker has documentary evidence in its records that you are a non-United States person and certain other conditions are met, or you otherwise establish an exemption.

Backup withholding tax is not an additional tax. Rather, you generally may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under backup withholding rules that exceed your income tax liability by filing a refund claim with the IRS.

Individuals who are United States Holders (and to the extent specified in applicable Treasury regulations, certain United States entities and Non-United States Holders) who hold "specified foreign financial assets" (as defined in Section 6038D of the Code) are required to file IRS Form 8938 with information relating to the asset for each taxable year in which the aggregate value of all such assets exceeds $75,000 at any time during the taxable year or $50,000 on the last day of the taxable year (or such higher dollar amount as prescribed by applicable Treasury regulations). Specified foreign financial assets would include, among other assets, our common shares, unless the shares are held through an account maintained with a United States financial institution. Substantial penalties apply to any failure to timely file IRS Form 8938, unless the failure is shown to be due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. Additionally, in the event an individual United States Holder (and to the extent specified in applicable Treasury regulations, a United States entity and Non-United States Holders) that is required to file IRS Form 8938 does not file such form, the statute of limitations on the assessment and collection of United States

federal income taxes of such holder for the related tax year may not close until three years after the date that the required information is filed. United States Holders (including United States entities) and Non-United States Holders are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors regarding their reporting obligations under this legislation.

Glossary of Shipping Terms

The following are definitions of shipping terms used in this Form 10-K.

Annual Survey - The inspection of a vessel by a classification society, on behalf of a flag state, that takes place every year.

Ballast Water Treatment System (BWTS) - A system used to prevent the spread of harmful aquatic organisms from one region to another by minimizing the uptake and/or discharge of sediments and organisms in the water that ships use as ballast to maintain stability. These systems are required on all ships, according to a timetable of implementation, in accordance with the BWM Convention discussed in the Pollution Control and Liability Requirements section above.

Baltic Exchange -Based in London, the Baltic Exchange is a market for the trading and settlement of physical and derivative contracts. The exchange also publishes daily freight market prices and maritime shipping cost indices, including Baltic Dry Index and segment indices for Capesize, Panamax, Supramax and Handysize bulkcarriers.

Baltic Supramax Index ("BSI") -The BSI is an index published by the Baltic Exchange which tracks the gross time charter spot value for a Supramax vessel. Initiated in 2005, the BSI was originally based on a 52,000 dwt ship of standard design and 6 trade routes across the world. As a result of a trend toward larger ship sizes and changes to trade patterns, this version of the index was discontinued as of January 31, 2019. The updated BSI is now based on a 58,000 dwt, non-scrubber fitted Supramax and 10 trade routes across the world.

Bareboat Charter -Also known as "demise charter." Contract or hire of a ship under which the shipowner is usually paid a fixed amount of charter hire rate for a certain period of time during which the charterer is responsible for the operating costs and voyage costs of the vessel as well as arranging for crewing. Such owner is known as the bareboat charterer or the demise charterer.

Basic Charter-Free Market Value -Approximate value of a vessel that is in good condition and safely afloat on the basis of a sale for prompt charter-free delivery for cash on normal commercial terms as between a willing buyer and seller as at a point in time.

Bulk Vessels/Carriers -Vessels which are specially designed and built to carry large volumes of cargo in bulk cargo form.

Bunkers -Fuel oil used to power a vessel's engines. The name is derived from the bins used to store coal onboard when ships were powered by coal. There are three main fuel types currently used on commercial cargo ships. First, High Sulfur Fuel Oil ("HSFO") is a residual fuel with maximum sulfur content of 3.5%. This was the primary fuel used by commercial shipping prior to implementation of the IMO2020 sulfur regulation and continues to be used by scrubber-fitted ships. Second, Very Low Sulfur Fuel Oil ("VLSFO") is a fuel with maximum sulfur content of 0.5% and is the primary fuel used by non-scrubber fitted ships starting January 1, 2020. Third, Marine Gas Oil ("MGO") is a distillate product similar to diesel fuel and has a maximum sulfur content of 0.1%. This fuel type is primarily used in ECA zones.

Capesize -A drybulk carrier in excess of 100,000 dwt.

Carbon Intensity Indicator ("CII") - A measure of how efficiently a vessel transports cargo, expressed in grams of CO 2 emitted per cargo-carrying capacity and nautical mile.

Charter - The hire of a vessel for a specified period of time or to carry a cargo for a fixed fee from a loading port to a discharging port. The contract for a charter is called a charter party.

Charterer - The individual or company hiring a vessel.

Charter Hire Rate - A sum of money paid to the vessel owner by a charterer under a time charter party for the use of a vessel.

Classification Society -An independent organization which certifies that a vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of such organization and complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of such vessel and the international conventions of which that country is a member.

Deadweight Ton (dwt) -A unit of a vessel's capacity for cargo, fuel oil, stores and crew, measured in metric tons of 1,000 kilograms. A vessel's dwt or total deadweight is the maximum total weight the vessel can carry when loaded to a particular load line.

Demurrage -Additional revenue paid to the shipowner on its Voyage Charters for delays experienced in loading and/or unloading cargo that are not deemed to be the responsibility of the shipowner, calculated in accordance with specific charter terms.

Despatch -The amount payable by the shipowner if the vessel completes loading or discharging before the allowed loading/unloading time has expired, calculated in accordance with specific charter terms.

Drybulk -Non-liquid cargoes of commodities shipped in an unpackaged state.

Drydocking -The removal of a vessel from the water for inspection and/or repair of submerged parts.

Emission Control Area (ECA) -Designated sea areas in which stricter airborne emissions controls are in place. The IMO has designated ECA zones that cover the Baltic Sea, North Sea, and most of the coastline of U.S., Canada and U.S. Caribbean territory. Ships operating within these zones have a maximum sulfur emissions limit of 0.1%. Beginning in 2025, the Mediterranean Sea will become an ECA.

Gross Ton -Unit of 100 cubic feet or 2.831 cubic meters used in arriving at the calculation of gross tonnage.

Handysize -A drybulk carrier having a carrying capacity of up to approximately 40,000 dwt.

Hull -The shell or body of a vessel.

International Maritime Organization (IMO) -A UN agency that issues international trade standards for shipping.

Intermediate Survey -The inspection of a vessel by a classification society surveyor which takes place between two and three years before and after each Special Survey for such vessel pursuant to the rules of international conventions and classification societies.

ISM Code -The International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, as adopted by the IMO.

Metric Ton -A ton, unit of measurement equal to 1,000 kilograms.

Light Weight Ton ("lwt") -The actual weight of the ship with no fuel, passengers, cargo, water or stores on board.

Newbuilding -A newly constructed vessel.

OPA -The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (as amended).

Orderbook -A reference to currently placed orders for the construction of vessels (e.g., the Panamax orderbook).

Panamax -A drybulk carrier of approximately 65,000 to 100,000 dwt of maximum length, depth and draft capable of passing fully loaded through the Panama Canal. Ships of this size may occasionally be equipped with onboard cargo handling equipment, but typically do not and must rely on shore-based equipment to load and unload.

Protection and Indemnity Insurance -Insurance obtained through a mutual association formed by shipowners to provide liability insurance protection from large financial loss to one member through contributions towards that loss by all members.

Scrapping -The disposal of old or damaged vessel tonnage by way of sale as scrap metal.

Scrubber or Exhaust Gas Cleaning System - This equipment is used to remove SO x from ship's exhaust gas.

Short-Term Time Charter -A time charter which lasts less than approximately 12 months.

SOLAS -The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974, as amended, adopted under the auspices of the IMO.

Special Survey -The inspection of a vessel by a classification society surveyor which takes place a minimum of every four years and a maximum of every five years.

Spot Market -The market for immediate chartering of a vessel usually for single voyages.

Supramax -A drybulk carrier ranging in size from approximately 50,000 to 60,000 dwt.

Technical Management -The management of the operation of a vessel, including physically maintaining the vessel and all of its machinery, maintaining necessary certifications and supplying necessary stores, spares and lubricating oils. Responsibilities also generally include selecting, engaging and training crew and arranging necessary insurance coverage.

Time Charter -Contract for hire of a ship. A charter under which the shipowner is paid charter hire rate on a per day basis for a certain period of time, the shipowner being responsible for providing the crew and paying operating costs while the charterer is responsible for paying the voyage costs. Any delays at port or during the voyages are the responsibility of the charterer, save for certain specific exceptions such as loss of time arising from vessel breakdown and routine maintenance.

Ultramax -A drybulk carrier ranging in size from approximately 60,000 to 65,000 dwt.

Voyage Charter -Contract for hire of a vessel under which a shipowner is paid freight on the basis of moving cargo from a loading port to a discharge port. The shipowner is responsible for paying both operating costs and voyage costs. The charterer is typically responsible for any delay at the loading or discharging ports.

Voyage Expenses -Includes fuel, port charges, canal tolls, brokerage commissions and cargo handling operations. These expenses are subtracted from shipping revenues to calculate Time Charter Equivalent revenues for Voyage Charters.

Vessel Operating Expenses -Includes crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lubes, communication expenses.

Available Information

The Company makes available free of charge through its internet website, ir.eagleships.com, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports including related exhibits and supplemental schedules, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Our SEC filings are also available to the public at the SEC's web site at http://www.sec.gov[http://www.sec.gov]. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference to this Annual Report.

We maintain our principal executive offices at 300 First Stamford Place 5 th Floor, Stamford, Connecticut. Our telephone number at that address is (203) 276-8100. Our website address is www.eagleships.com[http://www.eagleships.com]. Information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The Company's business (including our reputation as a safe and reliable operator), results of operations and earnings, financial condition (including our liquidity and our ability to meet our current and long-term financial obligations), cash flows (including our ability to pay dividends) and stock price can be affected by a number of factors, whether known or unknown, including those described below. When any one or more of these risks occur from time to time, the Company's business, results of operations, earnings, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the Company's stock price could decline.

Macroeconomic and Industry Specific Risk Factors

Deterioration of the global economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Demand for seaborne transportation of drybulk commodities is highly correlated to the global macroeconomic landscape. According to the International Monetary Fund ("IMF"), global GDP growth for 2022 is estimated at +3.4% in 2022, down significantly from the multi-year high reached in 2021 of +6.0%. For 2023, the IMF is projecting GDP growth of +2.9%. Monetary and fiscal actions taken by governments and central banks to reduce inflation also reduce economic growth and the impact of these actions, combined with the effects of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the lingering COVID-19 pandemic all weigh heavily on the global economic outlook.

If global economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price could be materially and adversely impacted in one or more of the following ways:

• A decrease in drybulk shipping demand could reduce freight rates, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Employing our fleet below breakeven levels for a prolonged period of time could adversely affect our ability to meet certain financial obligations, including the payment of interest and principal on our debt, causing potential financial covenant breaches under our existing debt agreements.

• Charterers could fail to meet their obligations under existing time charter or voyage charter agreements, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

• A decrease in drybulk shipping demand could reduce the market value of drybulk carriers, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to maintain compliance with certain covenants under our current debt agreements and our ability to obtain additional financing, including the refinancing of our existing long-term debt.

There can be no assurance as to the sustainability of future global economic growth.

Freight rates for drybulk carriers are volatile and could decrease significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with high volatility in freight rates, which have a direct impact on the Company's profitability and cash flows. The degree of freight rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers has varied widely. The Baltic Supramax Index (BSI), a daily average of charter rates for key drybulk routes published by the Baltic Exchange, which tracks the gross time charter spot value for a Supramax vessel, is based on a 58,000 dwt, non-scrubber fitted Supramax and 10 trade routes across the world, and has been published, under its current definition, since July 31, 2015. From July, 31, 2016 (i.e., one year after the inception of the current BSI index) through December 31, 2022, the trailing twelve-month average of the BSI has ranged from $5,617 (1) to $29,955 (1) and averaged $13,057 (1) over the entire period. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the BSI averaged $22,152 (1) .

Fluctuations in freight rates are primarily attributable to changes in the demand for seaborne transportation of drybulk commodities and the supply of vessel capacity. The factors that affect the balance of these supply and demand factors are outside of our control and are inherently unpredictable.

Factors that may influence the demand for seaborne transportation of drybulk commodities include:

• supply of and demand for energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products;

• changes in the exploration or production volume of energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products;

• the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities;

• the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, consumer and industrial products;

• the globalization of production and manufacturing;

• global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes;

• natural disasters and weather;

• disruptions and developments in international trade, including trade disputes, the imposition of tariffs on various commodities or finished goods, or export controls;

• disruptions from conflict/war and any related sanctions or restrictions imposed on certain regions or/and countries;

• changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea;

• environmental and other legal regulatory developments;

• currency exchange rates.

Factors that may influence the supply of drybulk shipping capacity include:

• the number of newbuilding orders and the timing of deliveries (including slippage in deliveries);

• the scrapping rate of vessels;

• the number of vessels that are out of service (e.g., laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire);

• the impact of weather patterns on vessel scheduling;

• port and canal congestion;

• the speed of vessel operation;

• the number of shipyards and ability of shipyards to deliver, drydock or repair vessels;

• availability of financing for new vessels;

• vessel casualties;

• changes in national or international regulations that may effectively change the carrying capacity of vessels or cause early obsolescence of vessels; and

• changes in environmental and other regulations that may impact the useful lives of vessels.

Since we primarily charter our vessels in the spot market, we are exposed to the cyclicality and volatility of the spot market. Spot freight rates may fluctuate significantly based upon available charters and the supply of and demand for seaborne shipping capacity, and we may be unable to keep our vessels fully employed at any point in time in the spot market. Freight rates available in the spot market may also be insufficient to enable our vessels to operate profitably. As a result, fluctuations in freight rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

(1)Source: Clarksons (February 2023)

Measures implemented by governments of various countries in response to the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

COVID-19 continues to impact global economies and the trade routes in which we operate, the way we conduct our business and the business of our charterers. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, governments of various countries have implemented certain measures to protect their citizens from exposure and mitigate the spread of COVID-19. These measures include, but are not limited to, lockdowns, quarantine regulations and other emergency health policies.

As a result of these measures, the Company experienced delays in operations due to port restrictions and additional protocols. Travel restrictions imposed at various ports impeded our crew rotation plans during the year. We experienced disruptions to our normal vessel operations and incurred additional costs and lost revenue from off-hire time due to route deviations to allow for crew changes and quarantine restrictions as a number of our crew members tested positive for COVID-19 during 2022. We experienced delays in drydocking, vessel repairs and BWTS installations as a result of quarantine and other regulations as well as limitations of shipyard labor. Given the dynamic nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and policies and procedures implemented throughout the world in response to it, the severity and duration of business disruptions and the related financial impact on our business is inherently uncertain. Sustained protection and mitigation measures related to the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

An increase in trade protectionism globally or by certain countries could have an adverse effect on our charterers' business and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

National governments have utilized and may continue to utilize tariffs, export controls or other trade barriers to protect their domestic industries and economic interests. Trade protectionism, or the threat of protectionist actions, could adversely affect global economic conditions and international trade. For example, trade protectionism could increase (i) the cost of goods exported from or imported into a particular country or region, (ii) the length of time required to transport goods internationally and (iii) risks associated with transporting goods internationally. These factors could adversely impact the quantities and costs of goods transported internationally, which could have an adverse effect on our charterers' business, and therefore, could adversely impact the demand for seaborne transportation of drybulk commodities.

Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the Chinese government to regulate its economy could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

China is a significant source of global shipping demand for drybulk commodities and our vessels transport goods into and out of Chinese ports for the benefit of charterers across a number of industries. A deterioration in the economic fundamentals for this nation could adversely affect shipping demand, and therefore, freight rates. During 2022, lockdowns in China under its zero-COVID policy had a negative impact on its economy and the Chinese property sector, which represents one-fifth of the economic activity in China, weakened. A worsening of the Chinese property sector could adversely affect the Chinese banking sector, which could exert downward pressure on overall economic growth in China. A decrease in the level of China's imports or exports of drybulk commodities could have an adverse effect on our charterers' business and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

The drybulk shipping market is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Demand for vessel capacity has historically exhibited seasonal variations and, as a result, fluctuations in freight rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results for our vessels trading in the spot market. The midsize drybulk market, as measured by the BSI, is typically strongest in the fall (due to both

increased North American grain shipments and higher coal purchases for heating fuel ahead of the cold winter months). There is also seasonal volatility in the relative strength of the Atlantic basin as compared to the Pacific basin. From 2016 through 2022, the long-term average market premium in the Atlantic basin was approximately 30% (1) . This premium is generally highest in the months of December through February, primarily attributable to a general market slowdown in the weeks leading up to the Lunar New Year and due to an elevated number of newbuild vessels that are typically delivered in January, relative to other months. To the extent that we must enter into a new charter or renew an existing charter for a vessel in our fleet during a time when seasonal variations have reduced prevailing freight rates, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price may be adversely affected.

(1)Source: Clarksons (February 2023)

An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity across the industry could depress market freight rates, which could limit our ability to operate our drybulk carriers profitably.

In addition to prevailing and anticipated market freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up of vessels include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance costs, insurance coverage costs, the efficiency and age profile of the existing drybulk fleet in the market, and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors are outside of our control and we may not be able to correctly assess and respond to the nature, timing and degree of changes in these factors.

Although global drybulk supply growth rates are expected to remain low over the next two years, as a result of a relatively small number of newbuilding orders placed over the past three years and uncertainties relating to future regulations around decarbonization, an increase in overall drybulk carrier supply or an increase in newbuilding ordering levels could have an adverse effect on freight rates, and accordingly, a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Declines in freight rates and vessel values could cause us to incur impairment charges.

Our owned vessels are the most valuable assets on our balance sheet. We evaluate our vessels for impairment annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The recoverable amount of a vessel is based on a projection of future cash flows and is significantly impacted by freight rates and estimated costs of operations.

A decline in freight rates, or an increase in the costs of operating our vessels could cause us to incur impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price.

The market values of our vessels are volatile and may decline which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or cause us to breach certain financial covenants under our Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

As of December 31, 2022, the fair market values of our owned vessels were higher than their respective carrying values; however, the fair market values of drybulk vessels may be impacted by a number of factors, which include, but are not limited to:

• prevailing market freight rates;

• general economic and market conditions affecting the drybulk shipping industry;

• the type, size and age of a vessel;

• the supply of and demand for drybulk carriers;

• the relative cost of other modes of transportation;

• the cost of new buildings;

• governmental or other regulations; and

• the need to upgrade secondhand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment or otherwise.

A decline in the market values of our vessels could cause us to breach one or more covenants under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, which would allow for the potential acceleration of amounts due under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and stock price. Such a decline in the market values of our vessels could also reduce the proceeds received from the future sale of a vessel or the amount of funds able to borrowed in the future under terms that are acceptable to the Company. See Note 7, Debt, to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on covenants under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

Fuel cost, or bunker prices, could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Fuel is a significant expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. In addition, while we generally do not bear the cost of fuel for vessels operating on time charters, the cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. The price of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. For example, the volatility of market prices for fuel has increased as a result of supply disruptions from the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Inflation could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Inflation could adversely affect our operating results by increasing the costs of labor and materials needed to operate our business. During 2022, we have experienced increased costs for crew, spares and stores and the costs of services integral to the operations of our vessels, which we currently expect to continue into 2023. We may be unable to offset the increasing costs of our operations through increased shipping rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies could be costly and could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be certified by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the vessel's country of registry and SOLAS.

A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. A vessel must also be drydocked every two and a half to five years, depending on its age, for inspection of its underwater parts.

Compliance with current and future safety and other requirements imposed by vessel classification societies may cause us to incur significant additional costs and lost revenue from off-hire time. Compliance may include meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. If any of the Company's owned vessels does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, that vessel will be unable to trade between ports until the issues that led to the failure are rectified. Accordingly, the vessel would be unemployable and could become uninsurable for a period of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that could materially and adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. We are also required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. These regulations include, but are not limited to, OPA, CERCLA, the CAA, the CWA, the MTSA, requirements of the USCG and the EPA and regulations of the IMO, including MARPOL, as from time to time amended including designation of ECAs thereunder, SOLAS, as from time to time amended, the ISM Code, the LL Convention, the Bunker Convention and EU regulations. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the fair market value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast and bilge waters, restrictions on the discharge of wash water from and the use of open loop scrubbers, elimination of tin-based paint, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any or all permits, licenses and certificates, in a timely manner or at all, currently required to permit our vessels to operate. These costs or potential business interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or stock price.

Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are strictly, and jointly and severally, liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For additional information regarding the environmental regulations affecting our operations and matters related to the Company's compliance with such regulations, see Item 1. Business and Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.

Operating in warlike and high-risk geographic areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Acts of piracy and the risk of loss due to war, terrorism, military tensions and other hostilities have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, the Gulf of Guinea and the Gulf of Aden. Although the frequency of hostile events and sea piracy worldwide has decreased from 2014 to 2022, such incidents continue to occur, with drybulk carriers and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. From 2020 to 2022, the Company experienced two acts of piracy on our vessels which were resolved peacefully and without significant losses to the Company and with no loss of life, or personal injury, to our crew members. If acts of piracy or other hostilities continue to occur in regions that are characterized as "war risk" zones, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, our insurance costs could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs and other costs for the employment of

onboard security guards could increase. If our vessels were seized and detained as a result of such events, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire payment until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a seized vessel was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. Losses from such incidents in excess of our insurance coverages or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

If our vessels call on ports located in countries or territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions imposed by the UN, the United States, the EU or other relevant authorities, or if we are found to be in violation of such sanctions, our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, stock price and market for our common stock could be materially and adversely affected.

As the Company has U.S. and EU incorporated entities, we are subject to U.S. and EU economic sanctions and trade embargo laws and regulations as well as equivalent economic sanctions laws of other relevant jurisdictions in connection with our activities. The laws and regulations of these different jurisdictions vary in their application and do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities. In addition, the sanctions and embargo laws and regulations of each jurisdiction may be amended to increase or reduce the restrictions they impose over time and the lists of persons and entities designated under these laws and regulations are amended frequently. Moreover, most sanctions regimes provide that entities owned or controlled by the persons or entities designated in such lists are also subject to sanctions. The U.S. and EU have enacted new sanctions programs in recent years. Additional countries or territories, as well as additional persons or entities within or affiliated with those countries or territories, have been, and in the future could be, the target of sanctions.

As a result of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the U.S., EU and United Kingdom, together with numerous other countries, have imposed significant sanctions on persons and entities associated with Russia and Belarus, as well as comprehensive sanctions on certain areas within the Donbas region of Ukraine and such sanctions apply to entities owned or controlled by such designated persons or entities. These sanctions could adversely affect our ability to operate in the region, restrict parties whose cargo we may carry and restrict the entities that we may use to hire and/or pay our Ukrainian and Russian crew.

In recent years, multilateral international sanctions targeting Iran have restricted and/or prohibited us and our charterers from engaging in Iran-related activities, including calling on ports in Iran. The United States continues to maintain comprehensive sanctions on Iran that generally prohibit persons and companies in the United States, as well as U.S. persons and persons owned or controlled by U.S. persons, wherever located, from engaging in nearly all Iran-related activity. In addition, following the U.S. withdrawal from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ("JCPOA"), the U.S. re-imposed all of its previously-lifted sanctions that target non-U.S. companies for engaging in certain activities with Iran, including those related to Iran's energy, shipping, shipbuilding and insurance sectors and has issued additional sanctions targeting other sectors of the Iranian economy. On the other hand, the EU has stayed in the JCPOA and maintained the lifting of nearly all of its sanctions targeting Iran, except for targeted asset freezes and travel bans against certain Iranian individuals and entities and restrictions on activities related to the military, nuclear proliferation and human rights abuses. The EU and Germany also have blocking rules in place intended to protect the interests of EU persons against the extraterritorial application of U.S. sanctions against Iran and Cuba.

Sanctions and trade embargo laws and regulations are generally subject to strict liability. Although we intend to maintain compliance with all applicable economic sanctions and trade embargo laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that, notwithstanding our compliance safeguards, we will not be found in the future to have been in violation, particularly as the sanctions and embargo laws and regulations are amended, the scope of certain laws and regulations may be unclear and the laws and regulations are subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators that may change over time. Further, charterers or other counterparties may violate provisions in contracts with us, or legal restrictions relating to sanctions. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price, including that any such violation could result in substantial fines or other civil and/or criminal penalties and could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business. Additionally, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely

affected and/or some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in the Company if we engage in activities in countries subject to sanctions, such as entering into permissible charters or engaging in permissible operations with individuals or entities in or associated with those countries. The determination by these investors and/or lenders not to invest in, or to divest from, our common shares may adversely affect the price at which our common shares trade. Furthermore, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.

We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to increased liability, adversely affect our insurance coverage and could result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports.

The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Each of the vessels that has been delivered to us is ISM Code-certified and we expect that any vessel that we agree to purchase will be ISM Code-certified when delivered to us. However, increased liability, decreased or invalidated insurance coverage or port restrictions as a result of failure to comply with the ISM Code could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

International shipping industries are subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination and at trans-shipment points. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us.

Changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us, could impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and could, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Our business may be interrupted by events or circumstances associated with operating ocean-going vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business and reputation.

Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, adverse weather conditions, mechanical failures, human error, environmental accidents, or other catastrophic events, including war, terrorism and piracy. In addition, transporting cargoes across a wide variety of international jurisdictions can be adversely impacted by political circumstances in foreign countries, labor strikes and boycotts and the potential for government expropriation of our vessels.

In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. We have procured hull and machinery insurance, Protection and Indemnity Insurance (including pollution insurance) and war risk insurance for our fleet. We have also purchased insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result from the loss of use of a vessel. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through P&I Associations and providers of excess coverage is $1.0 billion per vessel per occurrence.

By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels' holds and exposed cargoes may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel's bulkheads leading to a vessel casualty.

These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting and may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions.

We may not be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future, and we may not be able to obtain certain insurance coverage, including insurance against charter party defaults, that we have obtained in the past on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. Moreover, insurers may default on claims they are required to pay.

We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks or that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our vessels in the future. For example, in the past, more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

The loss of earnings as a result of insufficient insurance coverage and while an impacted vessel is being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of repairs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at unilateral charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment could be uncertain and may not be commensurate with current freight rates. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Cyber-attacks or other security breaches involving our computer systems or the systems of one or more of our vendors could materially and adversely affect our business.

Our systems are vulnerable to cyber security risks and we are subject to potential disruption caused by such activities. Companies such as ours are subject to cyber-attacks on their systems. Such attacks may have various goals, from seeking confidential information to causing operational disruption and theft of company property. To the best of our knowledge, to date, such activities have not resulted in material disruptions to our operations, loss of assets or a material breach of any security or confidential information. However, no assurance can be provided that such disruptions, losses or breaches will not occur in the future. Additionally, any significant violations of data

privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation, regulatory investigations, penalties, ongoing expenses related to client credit monitoring and support and other expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, financial condition, cash flows and stock price. While we have deployed resources that are responsible for maintaining appropriate levels of cyber-security and while we utilize third party technology products and services to help identify, protect and remediate our information technology systems and infrastructure against security breaches and cyber-incidents, our responsive and precautionary measures may not be adequate or effective to prevent, identify, or mitigate attacks by hackers, foreign governments, or other bad actors or breaches caused by employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions.

Financial Risk Factors

The state of the global financial markets could adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing, including the refinancing of our Global Ultraco Debt Facility and Convertible Bond Debt, on acceptable terms, restricting us from being able to operate or expand our business.

Global financial markets, as well as benchmark interest rates, are volatile and access to debt and equity capital may become more expensive or restrictive in the future. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available if, and when, needed. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our Global Ultraco Debt Facility and Convertible Bond Debt, if we so choose, on acceptable terms or at all, prior to or upon maturity. If additional financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and stock price, nor be able to grow our business. For more information on our debt facilities, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 7, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.

We have outstanding indebtedness, and if we default under our loan agreements, our lenders may act to accelerate our outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business.

At December 31, 2022, the Company's aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding was $341.9 million, of which $49.8 million is shown in the current portion of long-term debt.

As described under Note 7, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein, the obligations under these agreements are secured by collateral, contain a number of operating restrictions, covenants and events of default and a breach of any of the covenants could result in an event of default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions.

The use of derivative instruments could result in losses.

We utilize derivative instruments to economically hedge our exposure to the charter market by providing for the purchase or sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum.

We also utilize interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of our debt from a floating to a fixed-rate basis. Under these contracts, exclusive of applicable margins, we pay fixed rate interest and receive floating-rate interest amounts based on a benchmark interest rate.

If our hedging strategies are not effective, we may incur substantial losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

The transition from LIBOR to SOFR could adversely affect our interest costs.

The ICE Benchmark Administration, the administrator of LIBOR, has announced that the publication of the principal tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR will cease after June 30, 2023. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is in the process of introducing and implementing a new reference rate, SOFR. Each of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility and our outstanding interest rate swap agreements address benchmark transition from LIBOR to SOFR and we expect to effect the transition during 2023. SOFR, or another alternative reference rate, may be more volatile than LIBOR or may not attain sufficient market acceptance, which could cause volatility in pricing of securities, derivatives and other financial instruments and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

We currently maintain our cash and cash equivalents with eight financial institutions, which exposes us to counterparty credit risk.

We currently maintain our cash and cash equivalents with eight financial institutions. Our cash balances at certain of these institutions are in excess of insurance limits and may not be recoverable in the event of counterparty default. Losses as a result of counterparty default could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Company Specific Risk Factors

We are dependent on the spot freight market and any decrease in future market freight rates may materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

In 2022, the 53 vessels in our owned fleet were primarily employed for charters less than one year in duration, which exposed us to fluctuations in the spot freight market. Historically, the drybulk market is highly competitive and volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price, supply and demand for drybulk capacity and the spot freight market is expected to continue to be so. There have been periods during which time charter and spot freight rates for drybulk carriers have declined below our per-day level of vessel operating costs.

If we are required to charter our vessels at a time when freight rates are below our "break-even" rates, we may have to accept reduced and potentially unprofitable rates or we may not be able to secure employment for our vessels at all. If we are unable to secure profitable employment for our vessels, we may decide to lay-up some or all of our vessels until such time that freight rates become attractive again. During a lay-up period, we would continue to incur certain vessel operating expenditures, such as insurance and maintenance costs. Additionally, before exiting lay-up, we would incur reactivation costs for any vessel to regain its operational condition. Furthermore, as freight rates for spot charters are generally fixed for a single voyage, which may last up to several weeks, during periods in which spot freight rates are rising, we will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from such increases. Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Acquiring, taking-over and operating secondhand vessels could result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization.

While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock, which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels.

In addition, if we expand our fleet through vessel acquisition, we will need to recruit additional suitable seafarers and may need to recruit additional suitable shore-side administrative and management personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to hire suitable employees and if we or our crewing agents encounter business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels.

The costs of purchasing and operating secondhand vessels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

We have entered into and may enter into in the future, among other things, charter agreements with our customers. We depend on our charter agreements for substantially all of our revenues and some of our charterers are privately owned companies for which limited credit and financial information is available to us in making our assessment of counterparty risk. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, freight rates received for specific types of vessels and the supply and demand for commodities such as iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks. If a charterer fails to meet its obligations under an agreement with us, or if a charterer attempts to renegotiate a charter agreement, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price. In addition, we may be required to change the flagging or registration of the related vessel and may incur additional costs, including maintenance and crew costs if a charterer were to default on its obligations. Our shareholders do not have any recourse against our charterers. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company had no charterers which individually accounted for more than 10% of the Company's revenues.

In the highly competitive drybulk shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources, and as a result, we may be unable to employ our vessels profitably.

Our vessels are employed in a highly-competitive, capital-intensive and highly-fragmented market. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower freight rates or higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If we are unable to successfully compete with other drybulk shipping companies, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price could be materially adversely impacted.

The conflict between Russia and Ukraine may impact our ability to retain and source crew, and in turn, could materially and adversely affect our operating results.

We have relationships with Ukrainian and Russian manning agencies which procure some of our crews. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine may impact our ability to continue to source and retain crew from these countries. In addition, as new persons and entities may become subject to sanctions as a result of this conflict, these sanctions could adversely restrict the entities that we may use to hire and/or pay our Russian crew. Although we have relationships with manning agencies outside of the Ukraine and Russia, including in Asia, if we are not able to procure Ukrainian and Russian crews in the future, we may experience operational delays and loss of earnings for our vessels until new or replacement crews are sourced. We may also incur increased travel expenses to repatriate Russian and Ukrainian crew members on board our vessels, as well as to expatriate crew members sourced from other regions. The cost of employing crew members may rise if the available supply of Russian and Ukrainian crew is diminished, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and stock price.

We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees, which could materially and adversely impact our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. Our future success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be desirable. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers.

The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more expensive to maintain than more recently-constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Regulations and safety or other standards related to the age of vessels may require us to install new equipment, perform alterations or drydock vessels more frequently and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage, each of which could increase our operating costs and reduce our profitability. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. The aging of our fleet could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Failure to comply with the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws could result in fines, criminal penalties, and a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

We operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the FCPA. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and/or agents may take actions determined to be in violation of applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price. Further, any such violation could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business and could result in some investors and/or lenders deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us or lend to us. The determination by these investors and/or lenders not to invest in, or to divest from, our common shares may adversely affect the price at which our common shares trade. Any such violation could also result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations financial condition, cash flows and stock price. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.

Technological innovation could reduce our revenues and the value of our vessels.

Freight rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel's efficiency, operational flexibility and useful life. Efficiency is driven by speed, fuel economy and the ability to efficiently and effectively load and discharge cargo. Flexibility is driven by the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. The length of a vessel's useful life is driven by its original design and construction, its maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If newly-built drybulk carriers are more efficient, flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, our ability to profitably employ our vessels could be adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us.

We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period.

Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. In addition, in jurisdictions where the "sister ship" theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with "sister ship" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant off-hire period, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which could reduce our earnings.

Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder.

We believe that we qualify for this statutory tax exemption for our 2022 taxable year and we intend to take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status. If we are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we could be subject for those years to an effective 2% U.S. federal income tax on the gross shipping income we derive during the year that are attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this tax could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows and stock price. For more information, see Item 1. Business - United States Federal Income Taxation of Our Company.

United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have a material adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders.

A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and

royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." United States shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC.

Based on our current method of operation, we do not believe that we have been, are or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time and voyage chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time and voyage chartering activities does not constitute "passive income" and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets.

There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation and there is authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations.

If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders may face adverse United States tax consequences and information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders made an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock at the then prevailing income tax rates applicable to ordinary income plus interest as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common stock.

We may be subject to additional taxes, including as a result of challenges by tax authorities or changes in applicable law, which could materially and adversely impact our business and earnings.

We are subject to tax in certain jurisdictions in which we are organized, own assets or have operations. In computing our tax obligations in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that, upon review of these positions, the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority, or a change in applicable law, could result in additional tax imposed on us, including interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy certain of our financial obligations and to make dividend payments.

We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments in the future depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to satisfy certain of our financial obligations or our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends.

In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of the board of directors, restrictions contained in our existing debt agreements and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, the Company's earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, the ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms, the terms of its outstanding indebtedness and the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to distribute funds to it.

We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, the laws of which may restrict our ability to make dividend payments.

The laws of the Marshall Islands generally prohibit the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds or surplus to make distributions to us. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid at all in the future.

We conduct business in China, where the legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us.

Some of our vessels may be chartered to Chinese customers or from time to time on our charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on Chinese ports. Such charters and any additional charters that we enter into may be subject to new regulations in China that may require us to incur new or additional compliance or other administrative costs and may require that we pay to the Chinese government new taxes or other fees. Changes in laws and regulations, including with regards to tax matters, and their implementation by local authorities could affect our vessels chartered to Chinese customers as well as our vessels calling to Chinese ports and could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price.

Risks Relating to Our Common Stock

We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law.

Our corporate affairs are governed by our Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (as amended, the "Corporate Charter") and Second Amended and Restated By-laws (the "Bylaws") and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act (the "BCA"). The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as United States courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law.

The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the future.

The market price of our common shares has fluctuated since we became a public company and may continue to do so. In addition, the market price of shares of common stock of companies in the drybulk shipping industry, as a whole, may also be volatile. The market price of our common shares may be influenced by many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:

• actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry;

• differences in our operating results from those expected by investors or analysts;

• perceived future prospects of the Company, our competition, our industry or seaborne transportation industries in general;

• announcements concerning the Company or our competitors related to significant contracts, commitments or contingencies;

• mergers or strategic alliances in our industry;

• casualties (e.g., terrorism, piracy, or other catastrophic events);

• market conditions in our industry;

• general economic and regulatory trends;

• future sales of our common shares or other securities; and

• fluctuations in and the general state of the securities market.

These factors could cause the market price of our common shares to decline, regardless of our operating performance and as a result of these and other factors, you may not be able to resell shares at or above the price you paid for such shares.

The public market for our common shares may not be active and liquid enough for you to resell our common shares in the future.

Although our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, periods of volatility in the market for our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price or liquidity of our common shares and could impact your ability to resell your shares quickly, at market price, or above the price you paid for such shares.

Certain shareholders own large portions of our outstanding common stock, which may limit other shareholders' ability to influence our actions.

Certain shareholders currently hold significant percentages of our common stock. To the extent a significant percentage of the ownership of our common stock is concentrated in a small number of holders, such holders will be able to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of incorporation or by-laws and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.

The effect of the sale of any borrowed shares, which sales, if any, may be made to facilitate transactions by which investors in our Convertible Bond Debt may hedge their investments, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.

We have been advised that certain holders of our Convertible Bond Debt may sell borrowed shares of our common stock and use the resulting short position to establish or maintain their hedge with respect to their investments in our Convertible Bond Debt. The existence of the Share Lending Agreement (as defined herein) and the short sales of our common stock effected in connection therewith could cause the market price of our common stock to be lower over the term of the Share Lending Agreement than it would have been had we not entered into such an agreement, due to the effect of the increase in the number of our outstanding shares of common stock being traded in the market or otherwise.

Future issuances, sales, or availability for sale, of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock.

Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, including sales by any selling shareholder or sales pursuant to our ATM Offering (as defined herein), or the perception that large sales could occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Such future sales, or perception thereof, could also impact our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-linked securities. From time to time, we may issue additional shares in connection with the acquisition of vessels.

If we elect to deliver shares of common stock to holders of our Convertible Bond Debt at maturity or upon the holder's exercise of the conversion option prior to maturity, the ownership interests of existing stockholders would be diluted. Any sales in the public market of our common stock so issued could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of our Convertible Bond Debt and its potential dilutive effect of conversion may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.

Our shareholders are limited in their ability to elect or remove directors.

The Corporate Charter prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. The Bylaws require parties other than the board of directors to give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. The Corporate Charter also provides that directors may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors and vacancies occurring in the board of directors for any reason may only be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum exists.

Our shareholders may take action only at Annual or Special Meetings.

The Corporate Charter and the Bylaws provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by shareholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareholders. Except as otherwise mandated by law, shareholders may not act by written consent.

Under the Bylaws, annual shareholder meetings will be held at a time and place selected by the board of directors. The meetings may be held in or outside of the Marshall Islands. These provisions may impede shareholders' ability to take actions with respect to the Company that they deem appropriate or advisable.

The Corporate Charter and the Bylaws provide that, except as otherwise required by law, special meetings of shareholders may be called at any time only by (i) the lead director (if any), (ii) the chairman of the board of directors, (iii) the board of directors pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the board stating the purpose or purposes thereof, or (iv) any one or more shareholders who beneficially owns, in the aggregate, 15% or more of the aggregate voting power of all then-outstanding shares of Voting Stock. The notice of any such special meeting is to include the purpose or purposes thereof, and the business transacted at the special meeting is limited to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice (or any supplement thereto). These provisions may impede the ability of shareholders to bring matters before a special meeting of shareholders.

The board of directors may set a record date between 15 and 60 days before the date of any meeting to determine the shareholders that will be eligible to receive notice and vote at the meeting.

Our shareholders are subject to advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations.

The Bylaws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. To be timely, a shareholder's notice will have to be received at the Company's principal executive offices

not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder must be received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever occurs first, in order for such notice by a shareholder to be timely. The Bylaws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a shareholder's notice. These advance notice requirements, particularly the 60 to 90 day requirement, may impede shareholders' ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders or make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of shareholders.

Certain super majority provisions in our organizational documents may discourage, delay or prevent changes to such documents.

The Corporate Charter provides that a two-thirds vote is required to amend or repeal certain provisions of the Corporate Charter and Bylaws, including those provisions relating to: the number and election of directors; filling of board vacancies; resignations and removals of directors; director liability and indemnification of directors; the power of shareholders to call special meetings; advance notice of director nominations and shareholders proposals; and amendments to the Corporate Charter and Bylaws. These super majority provisions may discourage, delay or prevent changes to the Corporate Charter or Bylaws.

The Corporate Charter provides that the U.S. federal courts located in the Southern District of New York or, if such courts lack jurisdiction, the state courts of the State of New York, shall be the sole and exclusive forum for certain disputes between us and our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees.

The Corporate Charter provides that, unless the Company consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the U.S. federal courts located in the Southern District of New York or, if such court lacks jurisdiction, the state courts of the State of New York, shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (b) any action asserting a claim of a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or the Company's shareholders, (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the BCA or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This forum selection provision could apply to actions brought under provisions of the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act and Exchange Act. The forum selection provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims.

The Company may not achieve the intended benefits of having a forum selection provision if it is found to be unenforceable.

The Corporate Charter includes a forum selection provision as described above. However, the enforceability of similar forum selection provisions in other companies' governing documents has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that in connection with any action a court could find the forum selection provision contained in the Corporate Charter to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. If a court were to find the forum selection provision to be inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, the Company may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We do not own any real property. We lease office space at 300 First Stamford Place, Stamford, Connecticut 06902. In addition, we lease offices in Singapore and Copenhagen, Denmark. Our interests in our drybulk vessels are our only material properties. See Item 1. Business - Our Fleet for additional information regarding our fleet of owned vessels.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

See Note 10 , Commitments and Contingencies , to the Company's consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K, for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Market Information and Shareholders

The trading market for shares of our common stock is the New York Stock Exchange, on which our shares are quoted under the symbol "EGLE." Our common stock traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "EGLE" until January 3, 2023. On January 4, 2023, we transferred the listing of our common stock to the New York Stock Exchange, which continues to trade under the symbol "EGLE."

On March 9, 2023, the closing sale price of our common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, was $50.33 per share.

As of March 9, 2023, there were 132 shareholders of record.

Payment of Dividends to Shareholders

During 2021, the Company adopted a dividend policy which targets a minimum dividend of 30% of its net income, but not less than $0.10 per share, subject to approval from its board of directors.

We expect to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, in the future, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of the board of directors, restrictions contained in the Company's debt facilities and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, the Company's earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, the ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by the Company's growth strategy, the terms of its outstanding indebtedness and the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to distribute funds to it. See Item 7 . Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Dividends for additional information regarding dividends paid to shareholders.

Stock Performance Graph

The performance graph below shows the cumulative total return to shareholders of our common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the Russell 2000 Index and the Eagle Peer Group Index (defined below). The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each of the indices (with the reinvestment of dividends) from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2022. The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.

The Eagle Peer Group Index is a self-constructed peer group that consists of the following direct competitors: Diana Shipping Inc., Genco Shipping & Trading Limited, Golden Ocean Group Limited, Pacific Basin Shipping Limited, Pangaea Logistics Solutions, Ltd., Safe Bulkers, Inc. and Star Bulk Carriers Corp. The common shares of Diana Shipping Inc., Genco Shipping & Trading Limited and Safe Bulkers, Inc. each trade on the New York Stock Exchange. The common shares of Golden Ocean Group Limited and Star Bulk Carriers Corp. each trade on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. The common shares of Pangaea Logistics Solutions, Ltd. trade on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. The common shares of Pacific Basin Shipping Limited trade on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

Price information for Pacific Basin Shipping Limited was translated from Hong Kong dollars into U.S. dollars at an exchange rate of 0.1282 to one.

As of December 31, 
2017                     2018   2019     2020   2021     2022 
EGLE                     $      100.00   $      102.90   $   102.68   $   60.59    $   152.28   $   192.15 
Russel 2000 Index        $      100.00   $      87.82    $   108.66   $   128.61   $   146.23   $   114.70 
Eagle Peer Group Index   $      100.00   $      75.09    $   82.75    $   65.78    $   146.18   $   169.01 
ITEM 6. [RESERVED]

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and the risk factors identified in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report. For further discussion regarding our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, as filed with the SEC on March 14, 2022.

General Overview

The Company is a U.S.-based, fully integrated, shipowner-operator, providing global transportation solutions to a diverse group of customers including miners, producers, traders, and end-users. Headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, with offices in Singapore and Copenhagen, Eagle focuses exclusively on the versatile midsize drybulk vessel segment and owns one of the largest fleets of Supramax/Ultramax vessels in the world. The Company performs all management services in-house (strategic, commercial, operational, technical and administrative) and employs an active management approach to fleet trading with the objective of optimizing revenue performance and maximizing earnings on a risk-managed basis. Typical cargoes we transport include both major bulk cargoes, such as iron ore, coal and grain and minor bulk cargoes such as fertilizer, steel products, petcoke, cement, and forest products.

As of December 31, 2022, our owned fleet totaled 53 vessels, or 3.20 million dwt, with an average age of 9.6 years. In addition, as of December 31, 2022, we had chartered-in five Ultramax vessels on a long-term charter-in basis, each with a remaining lease term of less than one year. The Company also charters-in third-party vessels on a short-to medium-term basis.

Reverse Stock Split

Effective as of September 15, 2020, the Company completed a 1-for-7 reverse stock split (the "Reverse Stock Split") of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share. Proportional adjustments were made to the Company's issued and outstanding common stock, the exercise price and number of shares issuable upon exercise of all of the Company's outstanding warrants, the exercise price and number of shares issuable upon exercise of the options outstanding under the Company's equity incentive plans and the number of shares subject to restricted stock awards under the Company's equity incentive plans. Furthermore, the conversion rate set forth in the indenture governing the Company's Convertible Bond Debt was adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. No fractional shares of common stock were issued in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Furthermore, if a shareholder held less than seven shares prior to the Reverse Stock Split, then such shareholder received cash in lieu of the fractional share. All references to common stock and all per share data contained in this Annual Report have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split unless explicitly stated otherwise.

Financing

On October 1, 2021, Eagle Bulk Ultraco LLC ("Eagle Ultraco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, along with certain of its vessel-owning subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a new senior secured credit facility (the "Global Ultraco Debt Facility") with the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders") Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank ("Crédit Agricole"), Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (PUBL), Danish Ship Finance A/S, Nordea Bank ABP, Filial I Norge, DNB Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and ING Bank N.V., London Branch. The Global Ultraco Debt Facility provides for an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million, which consists of (i) a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million (the "Term Facility") and (ii) a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million (the "Revolving Facility") to be used for refinancing the outstanding debt including accrued interest and commitment fees under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, New

Ultraco Debt Facility and Norwegian Bond Debt (collectively, the "Previous Debt Facilities"), which are discussed below and for general corporate purposes. The Company paid fees of $5.8 million to the Lenders in connection with the transaction.

The Global Ultraco Debt Facility has a maturity date of five years from the date of borrowing on the Term Facility, which is October 1, 2026. Outstanding borrowings bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.10% to 2.80% per annum, depending on certain metrics such as the Company's financial leverage ratio and meeting sustainability linked criteria. Repayments of $12.45 million are due quarterly beginning on December 15, 2021, with a final balloon payment of all outstanding principal and accrued interest due upon maturity. The loan is repayable in whole or in part without premium or penalty prior to the maturity date subject to certain requirements stipulated in the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. Commitment fees accrue at a rate per annum equal to 40% of the higher of (i) the Applicable Margin (as defined within the Global Ultraco Debt Facility) and (ii) 2.45% on the undrawn portion of the Revolving Facility.

The Global Ultraco Debt Facility is secured by 49 of the Company's vessels. The Global Ultraco Debt Facility contains certain standard affirmative and negative covenants along with financial covenants. The financial covenants include: (i) a minimum consolidated liquidity based on the greater of (a) $0.6 million per vessel owned directly or indirectly by the Company or (b) 7.5% of the Company's total debt; (ii) a debt to capitalization ratio not greater than 0.60:1.00; (iii) maintaining positive working capital and (iv) a ratio of the fair market value of encumbered vessels to the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility of at least 1.40. As of December 31, 2022, the Company was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

Pursuant to the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, the Company borrowed $350.0 million and together with cash on hand repaid the outstanding debt, accrued interest and commitment fees under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility and New Ultraco Debt Facility. Concurrently, the Company issued a 10 day call notice to redeem the outstanding bonds under the Norwegian Bond Debt (as defined herein). Additionally, in October 2021, the Company entered into four interest rate swaps for the notional amount of $300.0 million of the Term Facility under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility at a fixed interest rate ranging between 0.83% and 1.06% to hedge the LIBOR-based floating interest rate (see Note 8, Derivative Instruments, for additional details).

In March 2021, the Company entered into an at market issuance sales agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., BTIG, LLC and Fearnley Securities, Inc., as sales agents (each, a "Sales Agent" and collectively, the "Sales Agents"), to sell shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company with aggregate gross sales proceeds of up to $50.0 million, from time to time through an "at-the-market" offering program (the "ATM Offering"). During the second quarter of 2021, the Company sold and issued an aggregate of 581,385 shares at a weighted-average sales price of $47.97 per share under the ATM Offering for aggregate net proceeds of $27.1 million after deducting sales agent commissions and other offering costs. The proceeds were used for partial financing of vessel acquisitions and other corporate purposes.

On March 26, 2021, Eagle Bulk Holdco LLC ("Holdco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a Credit Agreement ("Holdco Revolving Credit Facility") made by and among (i) Holdco, as borrower, (ii) the Company and certain wholly-owned vessel-owning subsidiaries of Holdco, as joint and several guarantors, (iii) the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders (together with their successors and assigns, the "RCF Lenders"), (iv) Crédit Agricole and Nordea Bank ABP, New York Branch, as mandated lead arrangers and (v) Crédit Agricole, as arranger, facility agent and security trustee for the RCF Lenders. Pursuant to the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, the RCF lenders agreed to make available an aggregate principal amount of up to the lesser of (a) $35,000,000 and (b) 65% of the Fair Market Value of the initial vessels, as specified within the credit agreement. Borrowings under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, which were repaid in full on October 1, 2021, bore interest at a rate of 2.4% plus LIBOR for the relevant interest period.

The following are certain significant events with respect to our vessels that occurred during 2022:

During the second quarter of 2022, the Company signed a memorandum of agreement to sell the vessel Cardinal (a 2004-built Supramax) for total consideration of $15.8 million. The vessel was delivered to the buyer during the third quarter of 2022. The Company recorded a gain of $9.3 million upon sale of the vessel in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2022.

During the third quarter of 2022, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification 2015-built scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $27.5 million. The vessel was delivered to the Company during the fourth quarter of 2022.

During the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification 2015-built Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $24.3 million. The Company paid a deposit of $3.6 million on this vessel as of December 31, 2022. The vessel was delivered to the Company during the first quarter of 2023.

Business Strategy and Outlook:

We believe our strong balance sheet allows us the flexibility to opportunistically make investments in the drybulk segment that will drive shareholder growth. In order to accomplish this, we intend to:

• Maintain a highly efficient and quality fleet in the drybulk segment;

• Maintain a revenue strategy that seeks to optimize TCE results in any rate environment;

• Maintain a cost structure that allows us to be competitive in all economic cycles without sacrificing safety and maintenance;

• Continue to grow our relationships with our charterers and vendors; and

• Continue to invest in our on-shore operations and development of processes.

Our financial performance is based on the following key elements of our business strategy:

(1) Concentration in one vessel category: Supramax/Ultramax drybulk vessels, which we believe offer certain size, operational and geographical advantages relative to other classes of drybulk vessels, such as Handysize, Panamax and Capesize vessels.

(2) An active owner-operator model where we seek to operate our own fleet and develop contractual relationships with cargo interests. These relationships and the related cargo contracts have the dual benefit of providing greater operational efficiencies and act as a balance to the Company's naturally long position to the market. Notwithstanding the focus on short-term chartering, we consistently monitor the drybulk shipping market and, based on market conditions, will consider taking advantage of long-term time charters on our owned fleet at higher rates when appropriate.

(3) Maintain high quality vessels and improve standards of operation through enhanced standards and procedures, crew training and repair and maintenance procedures.

Business Outlook

COVID-19

In March 2020, the World Health Organization (the "WHO") declared COVID-19 to be a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts on global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. Governments have implemented measures in an effort to

contain the virus, such as social distancing, mask and vaccine mandates, travel restrictions, COVID testing guidelines and quarantine regulations.

As a result of these measures, the Company experienced delays in operations due to port restrictions and additional protocols. Travel restrictions imposed at various ports impeded our crew rotation plans during the year. We experienced disruptions to our normal vessel operations and incurred additional costs and lost revenue from off-hire time due to route deviations to allow for crew changes and quarantine restrictions as a number of our crew members tested positive for COVID-19 during 2022. We experienced delays in drydocking, vessel repairs and BWTS installations as a result of quarantine and other regulations as well as limitations of shipyard labor. Our vessel operating expenses, specifically crew change costs, COVID-19 testing and quarantine-related costs, continue to be adversely impacted by the pandemic. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we incurred 63 days of off-hire related to crew changes attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic.

For additional discussion regarding the impact of COVID-19, see "-Liquidity and Capital Resources- Summary of Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

The impact of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine

As a result of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the U.S., EU and United Kingdom, together with numerous other countries, have imposed significant sanctions on persons and entities associated with Russia and Belarus, as well as comprehensive sanctions on certain areas within the Donbas region of Ukraine, and such sanctions apply to entities owned or controlled by such designated persons or entities. This conflict has become a multi-year war and humanitarian crisis. While it is difficult to estimate the impact of this conflict and current or future sanctions on the Company's business and financial position, these events and related sanctions could adversely impact the Company's operations. In the near term, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, increased volatility in both Russian and Ukrainian exports in the Black Sea region, as well as Russian exports in the Baltic and Far East regions due to these geopolitical events. In addition, the volatility of market prices for fuel has increased as a result of related supply disruptions from this conflict. Continued volatility in fuel prices could have an unpredictable impact on the Company's operations and liquidity.

The conflict between Russia and Ukraine may also impact our ability to continue to source and retain crew from these countries. In response to this risk, we have established and may expand relationships with manning agencies outside of Ukraine and Russia, including in Asia. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased operating expenses related to Ukrainian and Russian crew procurement, travel costs to repatriate Russian and Ukrainian crew members on board our vessels and to expatriate crew members sourced from other regions. In response to this risk, the Company recruited one new third-party manning agency during 2022 and another during 2023 in order to diversify our crew nationality exposure and increase our sourcing from the Philippines.

For more information regarding the risks relating to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, including economic sanctions levied as a result of it, see Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors." The conflict between Russia and Ukraine may impact our ability to retain and source crew, and in turn, could materially and adversely affect our operating results.

Market Overview

The international shipping industry is highly competitive and fragmented with no single owner accounting for more than 2.6% (1) of the on-the-water drybulk fleet, measured by vessel count, as of December 31, 2022. In addition, as of December 31, 2022, there are approximately 13,100 (1) drybulk vessels over 10,000 dwt which total 972 million dwt (1) . We compete with other owners of drybulk vessels, primarily in the Supramax/Ultramax segment and (to a lesser extent) the Handysize and Panamax segments. Many of our competitors are privately-held companies.

Competition in the shipping industry varies according to the nature of the contractual relationship as well as the specific commodity being shipped. Our business will fluctuate as a result of changes in the demand for seaborne transportation of drybulk commodities, the supply of drybulk shipping capacity and also the main patterns of trade in

these drybulk commodities. Competition in virtually all bulk trades is intense and we compete for charters on the basis of price, vessel location, size, age, and condition of the vessel, as well as on our reputation as an owner and operator. Increasingly, major customers are demonstrating a preference for modern vessels based on concerns about the environmental and operational risks associated with older vessels. Consequently, owners of large modern fleets have gained a competitive advantage over owners of older fleets.

Our strategy is to focus on the Supramax/Ultramax asset class, defined as drybulk vessels that range in size from approximately 50,000 to 65,000 dwt. These vessels have the cargo loading and unloading flexibility offered by their on-board cranes, while the cargo carrying capacity approaches that of Panamax, which ranges in size between 65,000 and 100,000 dwt but which require onshore facilities to load and offload their cargoes. We believe that the cargo handling flexibility and cargo carrying capacity of the Supramax/Ultramax class makes it the preferred type of ship attractive to potential charterers. As of December 31, 2022, all of our owned vessels ranged in size between 52,000 and 65,000 dwt.

The supply of drybulk vessels depends primarily on the size of the orderbook and the scrapping of older or less-efficient vessels. The global drybulk fleet increased significantly from 2009 to 2013 as a result of the large number of newbuilding orders placed during the boom in the drybulk freight market from 2007 to 2008. Scrapping of older vessels curtailed some of this new supply growth, but was not enough to materially offset the large net increase in the global fleet size. Supply growth rates has slowed significantly over the last five years as fewer newbuilding orders have been placed. During 2022, fleet growth decreased slightly to 2.8% (1) from 3.6% (1) in 2021. In 2022, vessels totaling 30.9 million (1) dwt were delivered, a decrease of 7.2 million (1) dwt from 2021. Scrapping in 2022 totaled 4.7 million dwt (1) , a decrease of 0.5 million dwt (1) from 2021.

The typical trading life of a Supramax/Ultramax vessel is approximately 25 years. As of December 31, 2022, 12% (1) of the world's drybulk fleet (by vessel count) was 20 years or older.

Fleet growth for 2023 is expected to continue at low levels of 1.9% (1) for the drybulk fleet and 1.4% (1) for Supramax/Ultramax vessels. The orderbook as of February 2023 stands at approximately 7.5% (1) of the total drybulk fleet, with the orderbook for the Supramax/Ultramax segment at approximately 7.8% (1) of the on-the-water fleet, with both figures near the smallest orderbook in almost 30 years. The IMF forecasted world GDP growth at 2.9% for 2023, as monetary and fiscal actions taken by governments and central banks to reduce inflation will also reduce economic growth and the impact of these actions, combined with the effects of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the lingering COVID-19 pandemic all weigh heavily on the global economic outlook. As of February 2023, drybulk trade, on a ton-mile basis, is expected to grow by approximately 2.2% (1) in 2023, with modest levels of growth expected across most drybulk commodities.

(1)Source: Clarksons (February 2023)

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP" or "GAAP"). The preparation of the financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.

Critical accounting policies are those that reflect significant judgments of uncertainties and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. We have described below what we believe are our most critical accounting policies, because they generally involve a comparatively higher degree of judgment in their application. For a description of all our accounting policies, see Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements included herein.

Revenue Recognition

Revenues are generated from time charters and voyage charters. Revenues from time charter contracts, which are accounted for as operating leases, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the related time charter agreement. Voyage charter contracts generally consist of a single performance obligation of transportation of cargo within a specified period of time. This performance obligation is satisfied over time as the related voyage progresses and the related revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated relative transit time (in voyage days) from the commencement of the loading of cargo to the completion of discharge, provided an agreed non-cancellable charter between the Company and the charterer is in existence, the charter rate is fixed and determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Costs directly related to a contract that are incurred prior to commencement of loading cargo, primarily bunkers, are recognized as an asset and are expensed on a straight-line basis as the related performance obligation is satisfied.

Revenue is based on contracted charter parties, including spot-market related time charters for which rates fluctuate based on changes in the spot market. However, there is always the possibility of dispute over terms and payment of hires and freights. In particular, disagreements may arise as to the responsibility for third party costs incurred by the customer and revenue due to us as a result. Additionally, there are certain performance parameters included in contracted charter parties, which if not met, can result in customer claims.

The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses for expected uncollectible accounts receivable, which is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable and changes in such are classified as voyage expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company assesses collectability by reviewing accounts receivable on a collective basis where similar characteristics exist and on an individual basis when we identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, the Company considers historical collectability based on past due status and makes judgments about the creditworthiness of customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. The Company also considers customer-specific information, current market conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions to inform adjustments to historical loss data. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, our assessment considered business and market disruptions caused by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the COVID-19 pandemic and estimates of expected emerging credit and collectability trends. The continued volatility in market conditions and evolving shifts in credit trends are inherently difficult to predict causing variability and volatility that may have a material impact on our allowance for credit losses in future periods.

Vessel Lives and Impairment

The Company estimates the useful life of the Company's vessels to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard to the original owner. In addition, the Company estimates the scrap rate to be $300 per lwt, to compute each vessel's residual value, which is based on the 15-year average scrap value of steel.

The carrying values of the Company's vessels may not represent their fair market value at any point in time since the market prices of secondhand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in freight rates and the cost of new buildings, among other factors. The drybulk shipping market has been cyclical with high volatility in freight rates, which is driven by the supply of vessel capacity and demand for commodities carried internationally by sea. We evaluate the carrying amounts of our owned vessels as well as the periods over which these long-lived assets are depreciated to determine whether events or transactions have occurred that may indicate that the carrying values of such vessels may not be recoverable or that the remaining useful life of a vessel may need to be prospectively modified. In evaluating the carrying values and remaining useful lives of long-lived assets, we consider indicators of potential impairment, which include a comparison of basic charter-free market values (as obtained from vessel-specific broker quotes) to carrying values, recent observable vessel sales, business plans and overall market conditions.

If indicators of potential impairment are present, we perform an analysis of the undiscounted projected net operating cash flows for each vessel and compare it to the vessel's carrying value. This assessment is made at the individual vessel level since we can separately identify cash flow information for each vessel. In developing estimates of future cash flows, the Company makes certain assumptions about future freight rates, vessel operating expenses, and the

estimated remaining useful lives of the vessels. These assumptions are based on historical trends as well as future expectations. Annually, the Company reviews all assumptions used in the calculation of projected net operating cash flows.

The undiscounted projected net operating cash flows are estimated using future revenues from existing charters for fixed fleet days and projected FFA rates through 2024 for unfixed days and an estimated daily time charter equivalent based on a historical average of the last fifteen years of one and three years' time charter rates over the estimated remaining useful life of the vessel, assumed to be 25 years from the original delivery of the vessel from the shipyard to its original owner, reduced by commissions, estimated outflows for vessel maintenance and operating expenses (including drydocking and special survey expenditures) and any planned capital expenditures (e.g., BWTS).

Future freight rates is the most significant and most volatile input in the Company's cash flow analysis. We utilize historical averages for periods not covered by contractually fixed charters and available FFA pricing due to the highly cyclical nature of the drybulk shipping industry. The age of vessels in our owned fleet ranges from five to eighteen years and utilizing long-term average TCE rates incorporates multiple shipping cycles and aligns to our strategy of operating our vessels over a long time period.

The Company evaluated whether any potential impairment indicators existed as of December 31, 2022. Based on this evaluation, which included comparisons of third-party valuation information to vessel carrying values, the Company concluded that there were potential impairment indicators for nineteen vessels in our owned fleet. For each of these vessels, the Company performed an undiscounted projected operating cash flow analysis and concluded that the estimated fair value of each vessel exceeded its carrying value and no impairment charges were recorded.

The table set forth below indicates the carrying value of each of our vessels as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the estimated basic charter-free market value of our vessels exceeded their aggregate carrying values by approximately $221.7 million and $289.8 million, respectively. Please note that the carrying values of vessels sold during 2022 and 2021 have been excluded from the table.

Dwt(in thousands)   Carrying Value as of 
#                   Vessel             Year Built  December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
1                   Antwerp Eagle      63.5         2015              $20.5 million    $21.5 million 
2                   Bittern            57.8         2009              $15.4 million*   $16.4 million 
3                   Canary             57.8         2009              $15.3 million*   $16.3 million 
4                   Cape Town Eagle    63.7         2015              $19.2 million    $20.1 million 
5                   Copenhagen Eagle   63.5         2015              $18.5 million    $19.3 million 
6                   Crane              57.8         2010              $16.4 million*   $17.5 million 
7                   Crested Eagle      56.0         2009              $17.3 million*   $18.6 million 
8                   Crowned Eagle      55.9         2008              $16.6 million*   $17.7 million 
9                   Dublin Eagle       63.6         2015              $18.4 million    $19.2 million 
10                  Egret Bulker       57.8         2010              $16.1 million*   $17.2 million 
11                  Fairfield Eagle    63.3         2013              $16.1 million    $16.9 million 
12                  Gannet Bulker      57.8         2010              $16.3 million*   $17.3 million 
13   Golden Eagle        56.0   2010   $18.5 million*   $19.8 million 
14   Grebe Bulker        57.8   2010   $16.4 million*   $17.5 million 
15   Greenwich Eagle     63.3   2013   $15.9 million    $16.7 million 
16   Groton Eagle        63.3   2013   $16.0 million    $16.9 million 
17   Hamburg Eagle       63.3   2014   $19.9 million    $20.9 million 
18   Helsinki Eagle      63.6   2015   $15.6 million    $16.3 million 
19   Hong Kong Eagle     63.5   2016   $20.0 million    $20.8 million 
20   Ibis Bulker         57.8   2010   $16.8 million*   $16.9 million 
21   Imperial Eagle      56.0   2010   $18.4 million*   $19.7 million 
22   Jaeger              52.5   2004   $5.1 million     $5.5 million 
23   Jay                 57.8   2010   $17.1 million*   $16.9 million 
24   Kingfisher          57.8   2010   $16.2 million*   $17.3 million 
25   Madison Eagle       63.3   2013   $17.6 million    $17.0 million 
26   Martin              57.8   2010   $17.5 million*   $17.2 million 
27   Montauk Eagle       58.0   2011   $9.4 million     $9.8 million 
28   Mystic Eagle        63.3   2013   $16.9 million    $16.6 million 
29   New London Eagle    63.1   2015   $20.7 million    $21.6 million 
30   Newport Eagle       58.0   2011   $7.9 million     $7.7 million 
31   Nighthawk           57.8   2011   $17.5 million*   $17.8 million 
32   Oriole              57.8   2011   $17.2 million    $18.2 million 
33   Oslo Eagle          63.7   2015   $15.0 million    $15.7 million 
34   Owl                 57.8   2011   $17.3 million    $18.3 million 
35   Petrel Bulker       57.8   2011   $17.2 million    $18.2 million 
36   Puffin Bulker       57.8   2011   $17.3 million    $17.8 million 
37   Roadrunner Bulker   57.8   2011   $17.5 million*   $18.6 million 
38   Rotterdam Eagle     63.6   2017   $17.8 million    $18.6 million 
39      Rowayton Eagle     63.3   2013   $16.0 million    $16.8 million 
40      Sandpiper Bulker   57.8   2011   $17.6 million*   $17.8 million 
41      Sankaty Eagle      58.0   2011   $9.6 million     $10.1 million 
42      Santos Eagle       63.5   2015   $18.5 million    $19.3 million 
43      Shanghai Eagle     63.4   2016   $20.0 million    $20.8 million 
44      Singapore Eagle    63.4   2017   $17.5 million    $18.3 million 
45      Southport Eagle    63.3   2013   $16.0 million    $16.8 million 
46      Stamford Eagle     61.5   2016   $15.1 million    $15.8 million 
47      Stellar Eagle      56.0   2009   $17.6 million*   $19.0 million 
48      Stockholm Eagle    63.3   2016   $16.9 million    $17.6 million 
49      Stonington Eagle   63.3   2012   $16.2 million    $17.1 million 
50      Sydney Eagle       63.5   2015   $18.5 million    $19.3 million 
51      Tokyo Eagle        61.2   2015   $27.5 million*   - 
52      Valencia Eagle     63.6   2015   $19.3 million    $20.2 million 
53      Westport Eagle     63.3   2015   $16.6 million    $17.4 million 
Total   $891.9 million     $902.2 million 
* Indicates a vessel for which the estimated basic charter-free market value was less than its carrying value.

Deferred Drydock Cost

There are two methods that are used by the shipping industry to account for drydockings: (a) the deferral method where drydock costs are deferred when incurred and amortized over the period to the next scheduled drydock; and (b) expensing drydocking costs as incurred. We apply the deferral method for drydock costs. Under the deferral method, drydock costs are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis until the next drydock, which we estimate to be a period of thirty to sixty months, depending upon the age of the vessel. We believe the deferral method better matches costs with revenue than expensing the costs as incurred. We use judgment when estimating the period between drydocks, which can result in prospective adjustments to amortization expense. We expect that our vessels require drydocking approximately every 60 months for vessels less than 15 years old and every 30 months for vessels older than 15 years. When a vessel is disposed of, unamortized drydock costs are written off to the gain or loss upon disposal. When a vessel enters drydock, unamortized drydock costs for that vessel are expensed to Depreciation and amortization in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Deferred drydock costs generally include direct costs incurred as part of drydocking in order to satisfy regulatory requirements. Costs incurred that add economic life to a vessel, increase a vessel's earnings capacity or improve a vessel's efficiency are accounted for as vessel improvements and are capitalized into the cost basis of the vessel,

whether incurred as part of drydocking or not. Expenditures for normal maintenance and repairs, whether incurred as part of the drydocking or not, are expensed as incurred.

Vessel acquisition

Where we identify any intangible assets or liabilities associated with the acquisition of a vessel, we record all identified tangible and intangible assets or liabilities at fair value. Fair value is determined by reference to market data and the amount of expected future cash flows. We value any asset or liability arising from the market value of the time charters assumed when an acquired vessel is delivered to us.

Where we have assumed an existing charter obligation or enter into a time charter with the existing charterer in connection with the purchase of a vessel at charter rates that are less than spot freight rates, we record a liability in fair value below contract value of time charters acquired based on the difference between the assumed charter rate and the spot freight rate for an equivalent vessel. Conversely, where we assume an existing charter obligation or enter into a time charter with the existing charterer in connection with the purchase of a vessel at charter rates that are above spot freight rates, we record an asset in fair value above contract value of time charters acquired, based on the difference between the spot freight rate and the contracted charter rate for an equivalent vessel. This determination is made at the time the vessel is delivered to us, and such assets and liabilities are amortized to revenue over the remaining period of the charter. The determination of the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires us to make significant assumptions and estimates of many variables including spot freight rates, expected future freight rates, future vessel operation expenses, the level of utilization of our vessels and our weighted average cost of capital. The use of different assumptions could result in a material change in the fair value of these items, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. In the event that freight rates relating to the acquired vessels are lower than the contracted freight rates at the time of their respective deliveries to us, our net earnings for the remainder of the terms of the charters may be adversely affected although our cash flows will not be affected.

Results of operations for years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021

This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 results and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. A discussion of 2021 results of operations compared to 2020 is not included in this Form 10-K, but may be found in "Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2022.

Net Income

For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company reported net income of $248.0 million, or $19.09 and $15.57 per basic and diluted share, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company reported net income of $184.9 million, or $14.91 and $11.79 per basic and diluted share, respectively. The net income for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are the result of the items described below.

Factors Affecting our Results of Operations

The following table presents operating data and certain financial statement data for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 on a consolidated basis.

We believe that the important measures for analyzing future trends in our results of operations consist of the following:

                    For the Years Ended 
                    December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Ownership days      19,261              18,258 
Chartered-in days   4,081               2,331 
Available days      22,324              19,538 
Operating days      22,276              19,439 
• Ownership days: We define ownership days as the aggregate number of days in a period during which each vessel in our fleet has been owned by us. Ownership days is a measure of the size of our fleet over a period and affects the amounts of revenues we earn and expenses we incur during a period.

• Chartered-in days: We define chartered-in days as the aggregate number of days in a period during which the Company chartered-in vessels.

• Available days: We define available days as the number of our ownership days and chartered-in days less the aggregate number of days that our vessels are off-hire due to vessel familiarization upon acquisition, repairs, vessel upgrades or special surveys and other reasons which prevent the vessel from performing under the relevant charter party such as surveys, medical events, stowaway disembarkation, etc. The shipping industry uses available days to measure the number of days in a period during which vessels should be capable of generating revenues. We completed drydock for eight vessels and 11 vessels during 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, no vessels were in drydock.

• Operating days: We define operating days as the number of our available days in a period less the aggregate number of days that our vessels are off-hire due to any reason, including unforeseen circumstances. The shipping industry uses operating days to measure the aggregate number of days in a period during which vessels actually generate revenues.

Time Charter Equivalent (TCE) (Non-GAAP Measure)

Shipping revenues are highly sensitive to patterns of supply and demand for vessels of the size and design configurations owned and operated by a company and the trades in which those vessels operate. In the drybulk sector of the shipping industry, rates for the transportation of drybulk cargoes such as ores, grains, steel, fertilizers, and similar commodities, are determined by market forces such as the supply and demand for such commodities, the distance that cargoes must be transported, and the number of vessels available or expected to be available at the time such cargoes need to be transported. The number of vessels is affected by newbuilding deliveries and by the removal of existing vessels from service, principally due to scrapping.

The mix of charters between voyage charters and time charters also affects revenues. Because the mix between voyage charters and time charters significantly affects shipping revenues and voyage expenses, vessel revenues are benchmarked based on time charter equivalent ("TCE"), which is a non-GAAP measure.

TCE is commonly used in the shipping industry primarily to compare daily earnings generated by vessels on time charters with daily earnings generated by vessels on voyage charters, because charter hire rates for vessels on voyage charters are generally not expressed in per-day amounts while charter hire rates for vessels on time charters generally are expressed in such amounts. The Company defines TCE as revenues, net less voyage expenses and charter hire expenses, adjusted for realized gains/(losses) on FFAs and bunker swaps, the subtotal of which is divided by the number of owned available days. Owned available days is the number of our ownership days less the aggregate number of days that our vessels are off-hire due to vessel familiarization upon acquisition, repairs, vessel upgrades or special surveys. The shipping industry uses available days to measure the number of days in a period during which vessels should be capable of generating revenues. TCE provides additional meaningful information in conjunction with Revenues, net, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, because it assists Company management in making decisions regarding the deployment and use of its vessels and in evaluating their performance. The Company's TCE should not be considered an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income/(loss), cash flows provided by/(used in) operating activities or any other measure of financial performance or

liquidity presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company's calculation of TCE may not be comparable to those reported by other companies.

The following table represents the reconciliation of TCE, a non-GAAP measure, from Revenues, net as recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands, except for Owned available days and TCE data).

                                                      For the Years Ended 
                                                      December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Revenues, net                                         $                   719,847   $   594,538 
Less: 
Voyage expenses                                       (163,385)           (104,643) 
Charter hire expenses                                 (81,103)            (37,102) 
Reversal of one legacy time charter (1)               -                   (854) 
Realized gain/(loss) on FFAs and bunkers swaps, net   15,791              (38,176) 
$                                                     491,149             $         413,763 
                                                     

Owned available days                                  18,243              17,207 
TCE                                                   $                   26,923    $   24,046 
(1) Represents revenues, net of voyage and charter hire expenses associated with a 2014 charter-in vessel that is not representative of the Company's current performance.

Our economic decisions are primarily based on anticipated net charter hire rates and we evaluate financial performance based on net charter rates achieved. Our revenues are driven primarily by the number of vessels in our fleet, the number of days during which our vessels operate and the net charter hire that our vessels earn under charters, which, in turn, are affected by a number of factors, including:

• the duration of our charters;

• our decisions relating to vessel acquisitions and disposals;

• the amount of time that we spend positioning our vessels;

• the amount of time that our vessels spend in drydock undergoing repairs;

• maintenance and upgrade work;

• the age, condition and specifications of our vessels;

• levels of supply and demand in the drybulk shipping industry; and

• other factors affecting spot freight rates for drybulk carriers.

Our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were earned from time and voyage charters. As is common in the shipping industry, we pay commissions ranging from 1.25% to 5.00% of the total daily charter hire rate of each charter to unaffiliated ship brokers and in-house brokers associated with the charterers, depending on the number of brokers involved with arranging the charter. We record such broker commissions as voyage expenses.

Revenues, net

Revenues, net for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $719.8 million, compared to $594.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Revenues, net increased $87.4 million due to an increase in total operating days (22,276 for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 19,439 for the year ended December 31, 2021) driven by increases in both owned days and chartered-in days and increased $37.9 million due to an increase in rates.

Voyage expenses

To the extent that we employ our vessels on voyage charters, we incur expenses that include but are not limited to bunkers, port charges, canal tolls and cargo handling operations, as these expenses are borne by the vessel owner on voyage charters.

Voyage expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $163.4 million, compared to $104.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Voyage expenses increased primarily due to an increase in bunker consumption expense of $43.9 million driven by an increase in bunker fuel prices, an increase in port expenses of $11.8 million driven by an increase in fuel surcharges related to tugs along with cost inflation and an increase in costs for contingent liabilities of $3.4 million driven by provisions for certain routine commercial claims.

Vessel operating expenses

Vessel operating expenses include crew wages and related costs, the cost of insurance, expenses relating to repairs and maintenance, the cost of spares and consumable stores and related inventory, tonnage taxes, pre-operating costs associated with the delivery of acquired vessels, including providing the newly acquired vessels with initial provisions and stores, and other miscellaneous expenses.

Vessel operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $123.9 million, compared to $103.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, with the increase primarily driven by an increase in ownership days (19,261 for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 18,258 for the year ended December 31, 2021). Vessel operating expenses, which includes non-recurring expenses related to vessel acquisitions and sales, increased due to an increase in crew-related costs of $8.9 million driven by higher crew wages, increased crew changes and increased expenses related to COVID-19 and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine , an increase in repair costs of $5.6 million driven by certain discretionary repairs and upgrades as well as unscheduled necessary repairs and an increase in the cost of lubes, stores and spares of $5.0 million driven by increased volumes and cost inflation.

Charter hire expenses

Charter hire expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $81.1 million, compared to $37.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Charter hire expenses increased $27.9 million primarily due to an increase in chartered-in days (4,081 for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2,331 for the year ended December 31, 2021) and increased $16.1 million due to an increase in charter hire rates as well as the impact of exercised extension options on the Company's long-term charter-in contracts.

Depreciation and amortization

We depreciate the cost of our vessels on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of each vessel. Depreciation is based on the cost of the vessel less its estimated residual value. We estimate the useful life of our vessels to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard to the original owner. We estimate the scrap rate to be $300/lwt to compute each vessel's residual value.

We amortize drydocking costs on a straight-line basis over the period through the date the next drydocking is required to become due, generally 30 months for vessels that are 15 years old or more and 60 months for vessels that are less than 15 years old.

Depreciation and amortization for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $61.2 million, compared to $53.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Total depreciation and amortization for the year ended December 31, 2022 included $47.9 million of vessel and other fixed asset depreciation and $13.2 million of deferred drydocking cost amortization. Total depreciation and amortization for the year ended December 31, 2021 included $44.9 million of vessel and other fixed asset depreciation and $8.7 million of deferred drydocking cost amortization. Depreciation and amortization increased $4.6 million primarily due to higher average drydocking expenditures and increased $3.1 million primarily due to the full year impact of vessels acquired during 2021.

General and administrative expenses

General and administrative expenses include onshore vessel administration related expenses, such as legal and other professional fees, administrative expenses including payroll and other expenses relating to our executive officers and office staff, office rent, directors' fees, and directors and officers insurance. General and administrative expenses also include stock-based compensation expenses.

General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $41.2 million, compared to $35.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. General and administrative expenses increased $2.6 million due to higher stock-based compensation expense, increased $0.9 million due to an increase in compensation and benefits, increased $0.8 million due to higher professional fees and increased $0.8 million due to higher other corporate costs, including travel and office-related costs.

Other operating expense

Other operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $3.8 million, compared to $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Other operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily comprised of $2.4 million of costs associated with a corporate transaction that did not materialize and $1.4 million of costs related to a 2021 U.S. government investigation into an allegation that one of our vessels may have improperly disposed of ballast water that entered the engine room bilges during a repair. Other operating expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily comprised of costs related to the aforementioned investigation. The Company posted a surety bond as security for any potential fines, penalties or other associated costs.

Gain on sale of vessels

For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company recorded a gain on sale of vessels of $9.3 million and $4.0 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company recorded a gain on the sales of the vessels Cardinal and Tern, respectively.

Interest expense

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $17.0 million, compared to $32.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Interest expense decreased $5.4 million due to lower effective interest rates and decreased $5.3 million due to lower outstanding principal balances, each as a result of the refinancing of the Company's debt in the fourth quarter of 2021 and decreased $5.0 million due to lower amortization of debt discounts and deferred financing costs primarily as a result of the Company's adoption of ASU 2020-06. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Realized and unrealized (gain)/loss on derivative instruments, net

For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded a net realized and unrealized gain on derivatives of $13.9 million, compared to a net realized and unrealized loss on derivatives of $38.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The change was primarily due to $11.4 million of realized gains on FFAs for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $41.1 million of realized losses on FFAs for the year ended December 31, 2021 driven by changes in market freight rates and the timing of positions taken. See Note 8, Derivative Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Loss on debt extinguishment

For the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, the Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $4.2 million and $6.1 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company repurchased $10.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Bond Debt for $14.2 million in cash and cancelled the repurchased debt. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company repaid the then

outstanding Norwegian Bond Debt and accrued interest and discharged the debt in full from the proceeds of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility and cash on hand. As a result, the loss on debt extinguishment comprised $1.6 million of unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs, as well as $4.4 million of call premium. In addition, the Company cancelled the Super Senior Facility (as defined herein) and recorded a loss of $0.1 million related to unamortized debt issuance costs. See Note 7, Debt, to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

Effects of Inflation

The Company believes that its business benefits during periods of elevated inflation and positive demand growth, as higher freight rates and net revenues more than offset increases in vessel operating expenses, drydocking costs and general and administrative expenses.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our principal sources of funds include operating cash flows and borrowings under long-term debt and revolving credit facilities. Our principal uses of funds include capital expenditures to establish and grow our fleet, maintain the quality and efficiency of our vessels and comply with international shipping standards and environmental laws and regulations, funding working capital requirements and making principal and interest payments on our debt.

Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are outside of our control. For additional discussion regarding risks that may negatively impact our cash flows, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

We believe that our current financial resources, together with the undrawn revolving facility available under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility and cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our ongoing business needs and other obligations over the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future thereafter.

From time to time, the Company may, subject to market conditions and other factors and to the extent permitted by law, opportunistically repurchase the Convertible Bond Debt in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. The Company may not otherwise redeem the Convertible Bond Debt prior to the Maturity Date.

The following table presents summarized balance sheet information as of December 31, 2022 and 2021:

                                                                                     As Of 
December 31, 2022                                                                    December 31, 2021 
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash - current                              $   187,155   $   86,147 
Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash - current)   $   74,869    $   69,886 
Current liabilities (excluding current portion of long-term debt)                    $   79,165    $   73,801 
Current portion of long-term debt                                                    $   49,800    $   49,800 
Long-term debt                                                                       $   284,682   $   330,244 
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash - current was $187.2 million as of December 31, 2022, compared to $86.1 million as of December 31, 2021. The $101.0 million increase was primarily driven by $298.3 million in cash flows from operations, partially offset by $105.0 million of dividends paid, $49.8 million of principal repayments on the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, $27.7 million paid to acquire vessels and vessel improvements and $14.2 million paid to repurchase $10.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Bond Debt.

Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash - current) was $74.9 million as of December 31, 2022, compared to $69.9 million as of December 31, 2021. The $5.0 million increase was driven by (i) a $10.4 million increase in Inventories due to higher volumes and higher bunker prices, (ii) a $3.8 million increase in Fair value of derivative assets - current due to unrealized gains on interest rate swaps from increases in

benchmark interest rates, (iii) a $3.9 million increase in Accounts receivable due to an increase in related revenues, partially offset by a $14.2 million decrease in Collateral on derivatives primarily due to a reduction in the notional amount of outstanding FFAs.

Current liabilities (excluding current portion of long-term debt) was $79.2 million as of December 31, 2022, compared to $73.8 million as of December 31, 2021. The $5.4 million increase was driven by (i) a $6.3 million increase in Current portion of operating lease liabilities due to operating leases entered into during 2022 and the reclassification of liabilities due to the passage of time, partially offset by operating lease payments made, (ii) a $6.1 million increase in Other accrued liabilities due to higher accrued vessel and voyage expenses, partially offset by (iii) a $4.1 million decrease in Fair value of derivative liabilities - current primarily due to a decrease in outstanding FFA positions, (iv) a $2.4 million decrease in Unearned charter hire revenue due to lower charter hire rates in the fourth quarter of 2022 as compared to the comparable quarter in 2021 and (v) a $0.7 million decrease in Accounts payable due to the timing of cash payments.

Long-term debt was $284.7 million as of December 31, 2022, compared to $330.2 million as of December 31, 2021. The $45.6 million decrease was primarily driven by (i) $49.8 million in repayments on our Global Ultraco Debt Facility and (ii) $10.0 million in repurchases of our Convertible Bond Debt, offset by (iii) a $12.0 million increase as a result of the adoption of ASU 2020-06.

The following table presents summarized cash flow information for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021:

                                                                        For the Years Ended 
December 31, 2022                                                       December 31, 2021 
Net cash provided by operating activities                               $           298,283   $   209,171 
Net cash used in investing activities                                   (23,692)    (125,481) 
Net cash used in financing activities                                   (171,059)   (86,317) 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash   103,532     (2,627) 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of year         86,222      88,849 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year               $           189,754   $   86,222 
Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $298.3 million, compared to $209.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by a $63.1 million increase in net income due to higher freight rates as well as a $29.3 million net decrease in collateral on derivatives, primarily due to a decrease in the number and size of outstanding positions.

Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $23.7 million, compared to $125.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company paid $27.7 million to purchase one vessel and other vessel improvements, paid $7.3 million for the purchase of BWTS and paid $3.6 million as an advance on the purchase of one vessel. This use of cash was partially offset by $14.9 million in proceeds from the sale of one vessel and $0.3 million in proceeds received on hull and machinery claims. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company paid $128.3 million to purchase nine vessels and other vessel improvements and paid $6.7 million for the purchase of BWTS. This use of cash was partially offset by $9.2 million in proceeds from the sale of one vessel and $0.4 million of insurance proceeds received on hull and machinery claims.

Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $171.1 million, compared to $86.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company (i) paid $105.0 million in dividends, (ii) repaid $49.8 million of term loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, (iii) paid $14.2 million to repurchase $10.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Bond Debt and (iv) paid

$2.4 million for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company repaid (i) $184.4 million of the Norwegian Bond Debt, (ii) $182.9 million of term loan under the New Ultraco Debt Facility, (iii) $55.0 million of revolver loan under the New Ultraco Debt Facility, (iv) $50.0 million of revolver loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, (v) $24.0 million of the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, (vi) $15.0 million of revolver loan under the Super Senior Facility and (vii) $12.5 million of term loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. In addition, the Company paid (i) $25.8 million in dividends, (ii) $6.4 million in financing costs to lenders, (iii) $1.9 million for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, (iv) $0.7 million in other financing costs, and (v) $0.5 million of issuance costs related to equity offerings. These uses of cash were partially offset by (i) $300.0 million in proceeds from the term loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, (ii) $55.0 million in proceeds from the revolver loan under the New Ultraco Debt Facility, (iii) $50.0 million in proceeds from the revolver loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, (iv) $27.1 million in net proceeds from the ATM Offering, (v) $24.0 million in proceeds from the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility and (vi) $16.5 million in proceeds from the New Ultraco Debt Facility.

As of December 31, 2022, the Company's debt, excluding $7.4 million of debt discount and debt issuance costs, was $341.9 million, the current portion of which was $49.8 million, and was comprised of $237.8 million outstanding under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility and $104.1 million of Convertible Bond Debt. In addition, as of December 31, 2022, the undrawn revolving facility under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility was $100.0 million. See Note 7, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included herein for a summary of our credit agreements.

Dividends

During 2021, the Company adopted a dividend policy which targets a minimum dividend of 30% of its net income, but not less than $0.10 per share, subject to approval from its board of directors.

A summary of dividends declared during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 and through the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is as follows:

Record Date         Payment Date        Amount (per Common Share) 
November 15, 2021   November 24, 2021   $2.00 
March 15, 2022      March 25, 2022      $2.05 
May 16, 2022        May 25, 2022        $2.00 
August 16, 2022     August 26, 2022     $2.20 
November 15, 2022   November 23, 2022   $1.80 
We expect to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, in the future, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of the board of directors, restrictions contained in the Company's debt facilities and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, the Company's earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, the ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by the Company's growth strategy, the terms of its outstanding indebtedness and the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to distribute funds to it.

Contractual Obligations

Information about the Company's contractual obligations can be found within Note 4, Vessels and Vessel Improvements, Note 7, Debt, and Note 11, Leases, in addition to the information presented below. We believe that funds from future operating cash flows and cash on hand and available to us through our financing transactions will be sufficient for future operations, commitments, capital acquisitions and other strategic transactions for the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter.

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures relate to the purchase of vessels and capital improvements to our vessels, which are expected to enhance their revenue earning capabilities, efficiency and/or safety and to comply with relevant regulations.

During the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification 2015-built Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $24.3 million. The Company paid a deposit of $3.6 million on this vessel as of December 31, 2022. The vessel was delivered to the Company during the first quarter of 2023. The remaining consideration due was paid subsequent to December 31, 2022 and in advance of delivery using cash on hand.

On January 30, 2023, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification, scrubber-fitted 2020-built Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $30.1 million. The vessel is expected to be delivered to the Company during the second quarter of 2023. The Company intends to use cash on hand to fund this acquisition.

On February 28, 2023, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification, scrubber-fitted 2020-built Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $30.1 million. The Vessel is expected to be delivered to the Company during the second quarter of 2023. The Company intends to use cash on hand to fund this acquisition.

In addition to acquisitions that we may undertake in future periods, the Company's other major capital expenditures include funding the Company's program of regularly scheduled drydocking and vessel improvements necessary to comply with international shipping standards and environmental laws and regulations. Although the Company has some flexibility regarding the timing of its drydockings, the costs are relatively predictable. In accordance with statutory requirements, management anticipates that vessels are to be drydocked every five years for vessels less than 15 years and every two and a half years for vessels older than 15 years. Funding of drydocking costs is anticipated to be satisfied with cash from operations. Generally, drydocking requires us to reposition vessels from a discharge port to shipyard facilities, which will reduce our available days and operating days during that period.

In 2018, the Company entered into a contract for the purchase of BWTS for its owned vessels. As of December 31, 2022, 48 of our owned vessels have BWTS installed. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded $8.2 million in Vessels and vessel improvements in the Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the acquisition and installation of BWTS. As of December 31, 2022, the Company made payments of $2.0 million related to BWTS that are expected to be acquired and installed during scheduled drydockings in 2023 and are recorded in Advances for ballast water systems and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We intend to fund future BWTS acquisition and installation costs with operating cash flows. The Company is not contractually obligated to purchase any number of BWTS in the future under this contract.

Drydocking costs incurred are deferred and amortized to expense on a straight-line basis over the period through the date the next drydocking is required to become due. During 2022, eight of our vessels completed drydock and we paid $18.4 million for drydocking costs. As of December 31, 2022 no vessels were in drydock. During 2021, 11 of our vessels completed drydock and we paid $21.9 million for drydocking costs. Drydocking costs decreased $8.0 million primarily due to a decrease in the number of vessels incurring drydocking costs during the year, partially offset by a $4.5 million increase in costs driven by the impact of inflation on shipyard costs and the costs of repairs. We intend to fund future drydocking costs with operating cash flows.

The following table provides certain information about the estimated costs for anticipated vessel drydockings, BWTS and vessel upgrades in the next four quarters, along with the anticipated off-hire days:

Projected Costs (1) ($ in millions)
Quarters Ending     Off-hire Days (2) BWTS  Drydocks  Vessel Upgrades (3)
March 31, 2023       255               $    0.2        $   4.7   $   0.4 
June 30, 2023        245               $    1.0        $   6.5   $   0.4 
September 30, 2023   204               $    1.0        $   5.8   $   0.6 
December 31, 2023    233               $    0.4        $   2.4   $   0.2 
(1) Actual costs will vary based on various factors, including where the drydockings are actually performed. We intend to fund these costs with cash on hand.

(2) Actual duration of off-hire days will vary based on the age and condition of the vessel, yard schedules and other factors. Projected off-hire days includes an additional allowance for unforeseen events.

(3) Vessel upgrades represents capital expenditures relating to items such as high-spec low friction hull paint which improves fuel efficiency and reduces fuel costs, NeoPanama Canal chock fittings enabling vessels to carry additional cargo through the new Panama Canal locks, as well as other retrofitted fuel-saving devices. Vessel upgrades are discretionary in nature and evaluated on a business case-by-case basis. We intend to fund these upgrades with cash on hand.

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

Other Contingencies

See Note 10, Commitment and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K for a discussion of our contingencies related to claim litigation. The potential impact from legal proceedings on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, could change in the future.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. The Company's objective is to manage the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings and cash flows. The Company manages the exposure to this market risk through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments. As of December 31, 2022, the Company has entered into, and in the future may enter into additional, interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes related to its borrowings and to lower its overall borrowing costs. See Note 8, Derivative Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information.

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in LIBOR on our term loan debt outstanding under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility (as defined in Note 7, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included herein.) As of December 31, 2022, the Company had $237.8 million in aggregate principal outstanding under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, which carried an interest rate of three-month LIBOR plus 2.10%. In addition, as of December 31, 2022, the Company had a series of interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount outstanding of $237.8 million under which the Company paid, on a weighted average basis, a fixed rate of 0.87%, and received three-month LIBOR. As of December 31, 2022, the outstanding interest rate swap agreements effectively managed the interest rate risk associated with the term loan debt outstanding under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

The Company is also exposed to market risk from changes in LIBOR on the Revolving Facility. As of December 31, 2022, no amounts were outstanding under the Revolving Facility. As of December 31, 2022, borrowings under the Revolving Facility would bear interest at three-month LIBOR plus 2.10%. Under a hypothetical scenario in which the Revolving Facility is fully drawn at $100.0 million throughout the year ended December 31, 2022, a 1% increase in three-month LIBOR would have resulted in an increase in interest expense of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022.

Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk on its debt. Generally, the Company enters into interest rate swaps with the objective of effectively converting debt from a floating-rate to a fixed-rate obligation. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps with a total notional amount outstanding of $237.8 million that were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges. See Note 8, Derivative Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information.

The Company uses forward freight agreements ("FFAs") and bunker swaps to manage its exposure to changes in freight rates and market bunker prices, respectively. Generally, the Company enters into FFAs with the objective of effectively fixing freight rates for forecasted charter hire transactions and the Company enters into bunker swaps with the objective of effectively fixing forecasted bunker transactions. The Company utilizes these derivative instruments to economically hedge these risks and does not designate them as hedging instruments. Therefore, any unrealized or realized gains or losses on FFAs and bunker swaps are recognized in earnings. See Note 8, Derivative Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information.

Foreign Currency and Exchange Rate Risk

The shipping industry in which the Company operates substantially transacts using the U.S. dollar. The Company generates all of its revenues and incurs the majority of its operating expenses in U.S. dollars and the Company's current exposure to currency fluctuations is not material. However, we do incur some of our voyage expenses and vessel operating expenses in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The amount and frequency of these expenses may fluctuate from period to period. Depreciation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies will increase the U.S. dollar cost to us of paying such expenses. We are not aware of any material events or uncertainties nor are there any known trends, demands or commitments that would indicate an increase in business conducted in non-U.S. dollar

currencies. If an increase in business conducted in non-U.S. dollar currencies were to occur, we may seek to hedge against any related foreign currency or exchange rate risk.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The information required by this item is contained in the financial statements set forth in Item 15(a) under the caption "Consolidated Financial Statements" as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2022. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits to the SEC under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act. The Company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the Company's financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO") in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013). Based on management's assessment and those criteria, management has concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022.

Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of the Company's assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that the Company's receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of the Company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules under the heading, "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm."

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

In addition, we evaluated our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act and there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2022 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

None

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

Not applicable

PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information regarding our directors, executive officers and certain corporate governance items will be included in the proxy statement for the 2023 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2022, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information regarding executive compensation will be included in the proxy statement for the 2023 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2022, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information regarding (i) security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters and (ii) securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans will be included in the proxy statement for the 2023 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2022, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions and director independence will be included in the proxy statement for the 2023 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2022, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information regarding principal accounting fees and services billed to us by our principal accountant, Deloitte & Touche LLP (PCAOB ID No. 34) will be included in the proxy statement for the 2023 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 2022, and is incorporated by reference to this Form 10-K.

PART IV

Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a) Documents filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K

1.   Consolidated Financial Statements: See accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
2.   Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule: Financial statement schedules are omitted either due to the absence of conditions under which they are required or because the information required is included in the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements. 
(b) Exhibits

Number Exhibit Title

3.1[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex3-2.htm]

Second Amended and Restated By-Laws of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., dated as of October 15, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on October 16, 2014; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex3-2.htm]

3.2[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916036390/ex3-1.htm]

Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., dated as of August 4, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on August 4, 2016; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916036390/ex3-1.htm]

3.3[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm]

Articles of Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on September 14, 2020; File No. 001-33831).[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828020013543/egle-charteramendmentf.htm]

4.1[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex4-1.htm]

Form of Specimen Stock Certificate of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on October 16, 2014; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774914018448/ex4-1.htm]

4.2[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916032152/ex10-1.htm]

Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2016, by and between Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and the Holders party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on May 17, 2016; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916032152/ex10-1.htm]

4.3* Description of Securities.

4.4[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm]

Indenture, dated July 29, 2019, by and between Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 2, 2019[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm] ).

4.5[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm]

Form of Note representing the Company's 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm] (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm] 2[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm] to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 2, 2019).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828019009884/indentureexecuted.htm]

10.1#[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022010641/a2022definitiveproxy.htm]

Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022010641/a2022definitiveproxy.htm] Second[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022010641/a2022definitiveproxy.htm] Amended and Restated 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A (File No. 001-33831) filed with the SEC on April 2[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022010641/a2022definitiveproxy.htm] 7[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022010641/a2022definitiveproxy.htm] , 20[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022010641/a2022definitiveproxy.htm] 22[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022010641/a2022definitiveproxy.htm] ).[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022010641/a2022definitiveproxy.htm]

10.2#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm]

Employment Agreement, dated October 29, 2021, among Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., Eagle Shipping International (USA) LLC and Gary Vogel (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on November 1, 2021; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021021027/vogel-employmentagreemen.htm]

10.3#[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm]

Employment Agreement, dated[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] June 16, 2022[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] , among Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., Eagle Shipping International (USA) LLC and Frank De Costanzo (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] 1[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] August 8, 2022[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm] ; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774916041610/ex10-6.htm]

10.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm] 4[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm] #[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm]

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on March 7, 2017; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-1.htm]

10.[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm] 5[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm] #[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm]

Form of Option Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on March 7, 2017; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000143774917003959/ex10-2.htm]

10.6[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021004650/egle-atmsalesagreement.htm]

At Market Issuance Sales Agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., BTIG, LLC and Fearnley Securities, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. filed with the SEC on March 12, 2021; File No. 001-33831).[http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001322439/000162828021004650/egle-atmsalesagreement.htm]

10.[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-gvogelrestrictedstock.htm] 7[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-gvogelrestrictedstock.htm] #[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-gvogelrestrictedstock.htm]

Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan, dated September 3, 2021, between Gary Vogel and Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on March 14, 2022[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-gvogelrestrictedstock.htm] ; File No. 001-33831[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-gvogelrestrictedstock.htm] ).[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-gvogelrestrictedstock.htm]

10.[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-fdecostanzorestricted.htm] 8[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-fdecostanzorestricted.htm] #[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-fdecostanzorestricted.htm]

Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Incentive Plan, dated September 3, 2021, between Frank De Costanzo and Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on March 14, 2022).[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022005984/egle-fdecostanzorestricted.htm]

10.[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022006268/egle-formofrsuawardagreeme.htm] 9[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022006268/egle-formofrsuawardagreeme.htm] #[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022006268/egle-formofrsuawardagreeme.htm]

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. Amended and Restated 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. filed with the SEC on March 15, 2022; File No. 001-33831[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022006268/egle-formofrsuawardagreeme.htm] ).[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022006268/egle-formofrsuawardagreeme.htm]

10.[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022032062/eaglebulk-transitionandsep.htm] 10[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022032062/eaglebulk-transitionandsep.htm] #[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022032062/eaglebulk-transitionandsep.htm]

Transition, Separation and General Release Agreement, dated December 12, 2022, by and between Eagle Shipping International (USA) LLC, Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and Frank De Costanzo (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc., filed with the SEC on December 16, 2022; File No. 001-33831).[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/000162828022032062/eaglebulk-transitionandsep.htm]

21.1* Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1* Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

23.2* Consent of Seward & Kissel LLP.

31.1* Rule 13a-14(d) / 15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer.

31.2* Rule 13a-14(d) / 15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer.

32.1** Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer.

32.2** Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer.

101.INS* XBRL Instance Document. 101.SCH* XBRL Schema Document. 101.CAL* XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document. 101.DEF* XBRL Definition Linkbase Document. 101.LAB* XBRL Labels Linkbase Document. 101.PRE* XBRL Presentation Linkbase Document. 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101).

* Filed herewith.

** Furnished herewith.

# Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized on March 10, 2023.

  EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC.   
                                              
  By:                        /s/ Gary Vogel   
                                                                        
                             Name:            Gary Vogel                
                             Title:           Chief Executive Officer   
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 10, 2023.

Name                        Title 
                            
/s/ Gary Vogel              Chief Executive Officer and Director(Principal Executive Officer) 
Gary Vogel                
                            
/s/ Frank De Costanzo       Chief Financial Officer(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 
Frank De Costanzo         
                            
/s/ Paul M. Leand, Jr.      Chairman of the Board of Directors 
Paul M. Leand, Jr.          
                            
/s/ A. Kate Blankenship   Director 
A. Kate Blankenship 
                         

/s/ Randee E. Day           Director 
Randee E. Day               
                            
/s/ Justin A. Knowles       Director 
Justin A. Knowles           
                            
/s/ Bart Veldhuizen         Director 
Bart Veldhuizen             
                            
/s/ Gary Weston             Director 
Gary Weston               
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No.34)                            F-2
                                                                                                     
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 202 2 and 202 1                                      F-5
                                                                                                     
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 202 2 , 202 1 and 20 20      F-7
                                                                                                     
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the years ended December 31, 202 2 , 202 1 and 20 20F-8
                                                                                                     
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders ' Equity for the years ended December 31, 202 2 , 202 1 and 2 020F-9
                                                                                                     
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 202 2 , 202 1 and 202 0      F-1 1
                                                                                                     
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                          F-1 3
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc.

Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income/(loss), changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.

Basis for Opinions

The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audits of the financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures to respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance

F- 2

with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.

Vessel Asset Impairment - Future Charter Rates - Refer to Note 2 of the financial statements.

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company's evaluation of its vessel assets for impairment involves an initial assessment of each vessel asset to determine whether events or changes in circumstances exist that may indicate that the carrying amount of the vessel asset may no longer be recoverable. Total Vessels and vessel improvements, at cost, net of accumulated depreciation as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, were $891 million and $908 million, respectively.

If indicators of impairment exist for a vessel asset, the Company determines the recoverable amount by estimating the undiscounted future cash flows associated with the vessel asset. If the Company's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows for any vessel asset for which indicators of impairment exist is lower than the vessel asset's carrying value, and the vessel's carrying value is greater than its fair market value, the carrying value is written down, by recording a charge to operations, to the vessel asset's fair market value. The Company makes significant assumptions and judgments to determine the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the remaining useful life of each vessel asset. These assumptions are based on historical trends and the Company's expectations for the vessels' utilization under the current deployment strategy. The most significant and subjective assumption is the future charter rates that the Company uses for its impairment analysis.

We identified future charter rates used in the undiscounted future cash flows analysis as a critical audit matter because of the complex judgments made by management to estimate future charter rates and the significant impact they have on undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated over the remaining useful life of the vessel. This required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort when performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management's projected charter rates.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the future charter rates utilized in the undiscounted future cash flows included the following, among others:

• We tested the effectiveness of controls over management's review of the impairment analysis, including the future charter rates used within the undiscounted future cash flow analysis.

• We evaluated the reasonableness of the Company's estimate of future charter rates through the performance of the following procedures:

◦ Evaluated the Company's methodology for estimating the future rates which reflect the rates currently in effect for the duration of their current charters. For periods of time where the vessels

F- 3

are not fixed on time or voyage charters, the Company estimates the daily future charter rate for the vessels' unfixed days based on published third party forward freight rates and for the periods after December 31, 2024, based on a blended average rate between a published third party's 15-year average rates for the one-year and three-year time charter rates.

◦ Compared the future charter rates utilized in the undiscounted future cash flow analysis to 1) the Company's historical rates, 2) historical rate information by vessel class published by third parties and 3) other external market sources, including analysts' reports and forward freight agreement curves.

◦ Obtained from the Company's management the assumptions used in the future charter rates and considered the consistency of the assumptions used with evidence obtained in other areas of the audit. This included, among others, 1) internal communications by management to the board of directors, and 2) external communications by management to analysts and investors.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

March 10, 2023

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2015.

F- 4

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(U.S. dollars in thousands, except share data and par values)

                                                                                                     December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
ASSETS                                                                                                                   
Current assets:                                                                                                          
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                            $                   187,155     $   86,147 
Accounts receivable, net of a reserve of $3,169 and $1,818, respectively                             32,311              28,456 
Prepaid expenses                                                                                     4,531               3,362 
Inventories                                                                                          28,081              17,651 
Collateral on derivatives                                                                            909                 15,081 
Fair value of derivative assets - current                                                            8,479               4,669 
Other current assets                                                                                 558                 668 
Total current assets                                                                                 262,024             156,033 
Noncurrent assets:                                                                                                       
Vessels and vessel improvements, at cost, net of accumulated depreciation of $261,725 and $218,670, respectively 891,877             908,076 
Advances for vessel purchases                                                                        3,638               - 
Operating lease right-of-use assets                                                                  23,006              17,017 
Other fixed assets, net of accumulated depreciation of $1,623 and $1,403, respectively               310                 257 
Restricted cash - noncurrent                                                                         2,599               75 
Deferred drydock costs, net                                                                          42,849              37,093 
Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent                                                         8,184               3,112 
Advances for ballast water systems and other assets                                                  2,722               4,995 
Total noncurrent assets                                                                              975,185             970,625 
Total assets                                                                                         $                   1,237,209   $   1,126,658 
LIABILITIES & STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                                                                                       
Current liabilities:                                                                                                     
Accounts payable                                                                                     $                   20,129      $   20,781 
Accrued interest                                                                                     3,061               2,957 
Other accrued liabilities                                                                            24,097              17,994 
Fair value of derivative liabilities - current                                                       163                 4,253 
Current portion of operating lease liabilities                                                       22,045              15,728 
Unearned charter hire revenue                                                                        9,670               12,088 
Current portion of long-term debt                                                                    49,800              49,800 
Total current liabilities                                                                            128,965             123,601 
Noncurrent liabilities:                                                                                                  
Global Ultraco Debt Facility, net of debt issuance costs                                             181,183             229,290 
Convertible Bond Debt, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs                                  103,499             100,954 
Noncurrent portion of operating lease liabilities                                                    3,173               1,282 
Other noncurrent accrued liabilities                                                                 1,208               265 
Total noncurrent liabilities                                                                         289,063             331,791 
Total liabilities                                                                                    418,028             455,392 
                                                                                                    

Commitments and contingencies (Note 10)                                                                                  
F- 5

                                                                                                    

Stockholders' equity:                                                                                            
Preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 25,000,000 shares authorized, none issued as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 -           - 
Common stock, $0.01 par value, 700,000,000 shares authorized, 13,003,702 and 12,917,027 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively 130         129 
Additional paid-in capital                                                                           966,058     982,746 
Accumulated deficit                                                                                  (163,556)   (313,495) 
Accumulated other comprehensive income                                                               16,549      1,886 
Total stockholders' equity                                                                           819,181     671,266 
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                                           $           1,237,209   $   1,126,658 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 6

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(U.S. dollars in thousands, except share and per share data)

                                                                     For the Years Ended 
December 31, 2022                                                    December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Revenues, net                                                        $                   719,847      $   594,538   $   275,134 
                                                                    

Voyage expenses                                                      163,385             104,643      89,549 
Vessel operating expenses                                            123,932             103,877      86,528 
Charter hire expenses                                                81,103              37,102       21,280 
Depreciation and amortization                                        61,155              53,517       50,157 
General and administrative expenses                                  41,184              35,161       31,532 
Impairment of operating lease right-of-use assets                    2,212               -            352 
Other operating expense                                              3,802               2,812        - 
(Gain)/loss on sale of vessels                                       (9,308)             (3,966)      490 
Total operating expenses, net                                        467,465             333,146      279,888 
                                                                    

Operating income/(loss)                                              252,382             261,392      (4,755) 
                                                                    

Interest expense                                                     16,981              32,257       35,393 
Interest income                                                      (2,918)             (92)         (257) 
Realized and unrealized (gain)/loss on derivative instruments, net   (13,859)            38,244       (4,827) 
Loss on debt extinguishment                                          4,169               6,085        - 
Total other expense, net                                             4,373               76,494       30,309 
Net income/(loss)                                                    $                   248,009      $   184,898   $   (35,063) 
                                                                    

Weighted average shares outstanding:                                                                  
                                                                    

Basic                                                                12,989,951          12,399,509   10,310,246 
Diluted                                                              16,313,447          15,684,392   10,310,246 
                                                                    

Per share amounts:                                                                                    
Basic net income/(loss)                                              $                   19.09        $   14.91     $   (3.40) 
Diluted net income/(loss)                                            $                   15.57        $   11.79     $   (3.40) 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 7

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS)

(U.S. dollars in thousands)

                                                 For the Years Ended 
                                                 December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Net income/(loss)                                $                   248,009             $   184,898   $   (35,063) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss): 
Net unrealized gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges   14,663              3,019               (1,132) 
Comprehensive income/(loss)                      $                   262,672             $   187,917   $   (36,196) 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 8

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

(U.S. dollars in thousands, except share and per share data)

                                                                         Shares of Common Stock*   Common Stock*   Additional paid-in Capital*   Accumulated Deficit   Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)   Total Stockholders' Equity 
Balance at January 1, 2020                                               10,214,600                $               102                           $                     918,475                                         $   (437,074)   $   -   $   481,503 
Net loss                                                                 -                         -               -                             (35,063)              -                                               (35,063) 
Common stock issued upon vesting of restricted stock awards              65,982                    1               (1)                           -                     -                                               - 
Common stock issued from equity offerings                                1,381,215                 14              23,804                        -                     -                                               23,818 
Fees for equity offerings                                                -                         -               (580)                         -                     -                                               (580) 
Common stock withheld related to net share settlement of equity awards   -                         -               (1,163)                       -                     -                                               (1,163) 
Cash settlement of fractional shares in the Reverse Stock Split          -                         -               (13)                          -                     -                                               (13) 
Unrealized loss on cash flow hedges                                      -                         -               -                             -                     (1,132)                                         (1,132) 
Stock-based compensation                                                 -                         -               3,048                         -                     -                                               3,048 
Balance at December 31, 2020                                             11,661,797                117             943,572                       (472,138)             (1,132)                                         470,418 
Net income                                                               -                         -               -                             184,898               -                                               184,898 
Dividends declared ($2.00 per share)                                     -                         -               -                             (26,255)              -                                               (26,255) 
Common stock issued upon vesting of restricted stock awards              81,281                    1               (1)                           -                     -                                               - 
Common stock issued upon exercise of stock options                       50,641                    1               55                            -                     -                                               56 
Common stock issued upon conversion of Convertible Bond Debt             25                        -               1                             -                     -                                               1 
Common stock issued upon conversion of warrants                          541,898                   5               10,675                        -                     -                                               10,680 
Common stock issued from ATM Offering, net                               581,385                   6               27,133                        -                     -                                               27,138 
Fees for equity offerings                                                -                         -               (233)                         -                     -                                               (233) 
Common stock withheld related to net share settlement of equity awards   -                         -               (1,937)                       -                     -                                               (1,937) 
Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges                                      -                         -               -                             -                     3,019                                           3,019 
Stock-based compensation                                                 -                         -               3,481                         -                     -                                               3,481 
Balance at December 31, 2021                                             12,917,027                129             982,746                       (313,495)             1,886                                           671,266 
Net income                                                               -                         -               -                             248,009               -                                               248,009 
Dividends declared ($8.05 per share)                                     -                         -               -                             (106,745)             -                                               (106,745) 
Cumulative effect of adoption of ASU 2020-06                             -                         -               (20,726)                      8,675                 -                                               (12,051) 
Common stock issued upon vesting of restricted stock awards              78,598                    1               (1)                           -                     -                                               - 
F- 9

Common stock issued upon exercise of stock options                       8,077        -   85        -   -         85 
Fees for equity offerings                                                -            -   201       -   -         201 
Common stock withheld related to net share settlement of equity awards   -            -   (2,355)   -   -         (2,355) 
Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges                                      -            -   -         -   14,663    14,663 
Stock-based compensation                                                 -            -   6,108     -   -         6,108 
Balance at December 31, 2022                                             13,003,702   $   130       $   966,058   $   (163,556)   $   16,549   $   819,181 
* Adjusted retroactively to give effect for the 1-for-7 Reverse Stock Split that became effective as of September 15, 2020, see Note 1, General Information.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 10

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(U.S. dollars in thousands)

                                                                 For the Years Ended 
                                                                 December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Cash flows from operating activities:                                                                    
Net income/(loss)                                                $                   248,009             $   184,898   $   (35,063) 
Adjustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: 
Depreciation                                                     47,911              44,862              42,778 
Amortization of deferred drydocking costs                        13,244              8,656               7,379 
Amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets              30,233              16,364              12,517 
Amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs            2,130               7,083               6,272 
Loss on debt extinguishment                                      4,169               6,085               - 
(Gain)/loss on sale of vessels                                   (9,308)             (3,966)             490 
Impairment of operating lease right-of-use assets                2,212               -                   352 
Unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative instruments, net            1,933               68                  (537) 
Stock-based compensation expense                                 6,108               3,481               3,048 
Drydocking expenditures                                          (18,422)            (21,906)            (14,294) 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities: 
Accounts payable                                                 (257)               10,067              (4,171) 
Accounts receivable                                              (4,141)             (14,967)            1,918 
Accrued interest                                                 185                 (1,733)             (631) 
Inventories                                                      (10,429)            (6,027)             4,199 
Operating lease liabilities                                      (30,227)            (17,132)            (13,256) 
Collateral on derivatives                                        14,172              (15,081)            - 
Fair value of derivatives, other current and noncurrent assets   (105)               (1,622)             (229) 
Other accrued liabilities                                        4,452               6,205               (3,007) 
Prepaid expenses                                                 (1,170)             (179)               1,449 
Unearned charter hire revenue                                    (2,416)             4,015               3,380 
Net cash provided by operating activities                        298,283             209,171             12,595 
                                                                

Cash flows from investing activities: 
Purchase of vessels and vessel improvements                      (27,676)            (128,254)           (980) 
Advances for vessel purchases                                    (3,638)             -                   (3,250) 
Purchase of scrubbers and ballast water treatment systems        (7,307)             (6,712)             (28,377) 
Proceeds from hull and machinery insurance claims                286                 354                 3,944 
Proceeds from sale of vessels                                    14,917              9,163               23,225 
Purchase of other fixed assets                                   (274)               (33)                (54) 
Net cash used in investing activities                            (23,692)            (125,481)           (5,492) 
F- 11

                                                                         

Cash flows from financing activities:                                                             
Proceeds from Global Ultraco Debt Facility                                -           300,000     - 
Proceeds from New Ultraco Debt Facility                                   -           16,500      22,550 
Proceeds from the Super Senior Facility                                   -           -           15,000 
Proceeds from the revolver loan under New Ultraco Debt Facility           -           55,000      55,000 
Proceeds from the revolver loan under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility    -           50,000      - 
Proceeds from Holdco Revolving Credit Facility                            -           24,000      - 
Repayment of term loan under Global Ultraco Debt Facility                 (49,800)    (12,450)    - 
Repurchase of Convertible Bond Debt                                       (14,181)    -           - 
Repayment of Norwegian Bond Debt                                          -           (184,356)   (8,000) 
Repayment of term loan under New Ultraco Debt Facility                    -           (182,930)   (28,734) 
Repayment of revolver loan under New Ultraco Debt Facility                -           (55,000)    (55,000) 
Repayment of revolver loan under Global Ultraco Debt Facility             -           (50,000)    - 
Repayment of revolver loan under Holdco Revolving Credit Facility         -           (24,000)    - 
Repayment of revolver loan under Super Senior Facility                    -           (15,000)    - 
Proceeds from issuance of shares under ATM Offering, net of commissions   -           27,138      - 
Proceeds from/(payments on) equity offerings, net of issuance costs       201         (493)       23,498 
Financing costs paid to lenders                                           (18)        (6,351)     (381) 
Other financing costs                                                     -           (731)       (142) 
Dividends paid                                                            (104,991)   (25,763)    - 
Cash received from exercise of stock options                              85          56          - 
Cash used to settle fractional shares                                     -           -           (13) 
Cash paid for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards      (2,355)     (1,937)     (1,163) 
Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities                       (171,059)   (86,317)    22,615 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash     103,532     (2,627)     29,718 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of year           86,222      88,849      59,130 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year                 $           189,754     $   86,222   $   88,849 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

F- 12

EAGLE BULK SHIPPING INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1. General Information

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company," "we" or "our" or similar terms). All dollar amounts are stated in U.S. dollars and are presented in thousands, on a rounded basis, using actual amounts, except for per share amounts and unless otherwise noted. Minor differences in totals or percentages may exist due to rounding.

The Company is engaged in the ocean transportation of drybulk cargoes worldwide through the ownership, charter and operation of drybulk vessels. The Company's fleet is comprised of Supramax and Ultramax drybulk carriers and the Company operates its business in one business segment.

Each of the Company's vessels serve the same type of customer, have similar operation and maintenance requirements, operate in the same regulatory environment, and are subject to similar economic characteristics. Based on this, the Company has determined that it operates in one reportable segment, which is engaged in the ocean transportation of drybulk cargoes worldwide through the ownership and operation of drybulk carrier vessels.

The Company is a holding company incorporated in 2005, under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and is the sole owner of all of the outstanding shares of its wholly-owned subsidiaries formed in the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The primary activity of each of the subsidiaries is the ownership of a vessel. The operations of the vessels are managed by a directly wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Eagle Bulk Management LLC, a Republic of the Marshall Islands limited liability company. Our common stock traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "EGLE" until January 3, 2023. On January 4, 2023, we transferred the listing of our common stock to the New York Stock Exchange, which continues to trade under the symbol "EGLE."

As of December 31, 2022, the Company owned and operated a modern fleet of 53 ocean-going vessels, including 26 Supramax and 27 Ultramax vessels, with a combined carrying capacity of 3.20 million deadweight tons ("dwt") and an average age of approximately 9.6 years. Additionally, the Company chartered-in five Ultramax vessels for remaining lease term of less than one year. The Company also charters-in third-party vessels on a short to medium-term basis. For each of the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company had no charterers which individually accounted for more than 10% of the Company's gross charter revenue.

In March 2021, the Company entered into an at market issuance sales agreement with B. Riley Securities, Inc., BTIG, LLC and Fearnley Securities, Inc., as sales agents (each, a "Sales Agent" and collectively, the "Sales Agents"), to sell shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company with aggregate gross sales proceeds of up to $50.0 million, from time to time through an "at-the-market" offering program (the "ATM Offering"). During the second quarter of 2021, the Company sold and issued an aggregate of 581,385 shares at a weighted-average sales price of $47.97 per share under the ATM Offering for aggregate net proceeds of $27.1 million after deducting sales agent commissions and other offering costs. The proceeds were used for partial financing of vessel acquisitions and other corporate purposes.

Effective as of September 15, 2020, the Company completed a 1-for-7 reverse stock split (the "Reverse Stock Split") of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share. Proportional adjustments were made to the Company's issued and outstanding common stock, the exercise price and number of shares issuable upon exercise of all of the Company's outstanding warrants, the exercise price and number of shares issuable upon exercise of the options outstanding under the Company's equity incentive plans and the number of shares subject to restricted stock awards under the Company's equity incentive plans. Furthermore, the conversion rate set forth in the indenture governing the Company's Convertible Bond Debt was adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split. No fractional shares of common stock were issued in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Furthermore, if a shareholder held less than seven shares prior to the Reverse Stock Split, then such shareholder

F- 13

received cash in lieu of the fractional share. All references herein to common stock and per share data for all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split.

Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies

(a) Principles of Consolidation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP" or "GAAP") and include the accounts of Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions were eliminated upon consolidation.

(b) Use of Estimates: The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates include fair values of long-lived assets (primarily vessels and operating lease right-of-use assets), impairment of long-lived assets (primarily vessels and operating lease right-of-use assets), stock-based compensation and financial instruments (primarily derivative instruments and Convertible Bond Debt (as defined herein)), residual values of vessels, useful lives of vessels and estimated losses on accounts receivable. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

(c) Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash: The Company considers highly liquid investments such as time deposits and certificates of deposit with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. The Restricted cash - current balance as of December 31, 2020 related to the proceeds from the sale of vessels, which were restricted pursuant to the terms under the Norwegian Bond Debt (as defined herein).

The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in the Consolidated Balance Sheets that sum to the total amounts shown in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:

December 31, 2022              December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Cash and cash equivalents      $                   187,155   $        86,147   $   69,928 
Restricted cash - current      -                   -         18,846 
Restricted cash - noncurrent   2,599               75        75 
$                              189,754             $         86,222   $        88,849 
(d) Accounts Receivable and Credit Losses: Accounts receivable primarily includes receivables from charterers for time and voyage charter contracts. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses for expected uncollectible accounts receivable.

The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses for expected uncollectible accounts receivable, which is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable and changes in such are classified as voyage expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company assesses collectability by reviewing accounts receivable on a collective basis where similar characteristics exist and on an individual basis when we identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, the Company considers historical collectability based on past due status and makes judgments about the creditworthiness of customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. The Company also considers customer-specific information, current market conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions to inform adjustments to historical loss data. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, our assessment considered business and market

F- 14

disruptions caused by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the COVID-19 pandemic and estimates of expected emerging credit and collectability trends. The continued volatility in market conditions and evolving shifts in credit trends are inherently difficult to predict causing variability and volatility that may have a material impact on our allowance for credit losses in future periods.

A summary of activity within allowance for credit losses for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

                                      For the Years Ended 
                                      December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Beginning balance                     $                   1,818               $   2,357   $   2,472 
Provision for credit losses           1,997               358                 721 
Write-offs of uncollectible amounts   (646)               (897)               (836) 
Ending balance                        $                   3,169               $   1,818   $   2,357 
(e) Insurance Claims: Insurance claims are recorded net of any deductible amounts for insured damages, which are recognized when recovery is virtually certain under the related insurance policies and where the Company can make an estimate of the amount to be reimbursed following the insurance claim. Insurance claims are included in accounts receivable in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(f) Inventories: Inventories, which consist of bunkers, are stated at cost which is determined on a first-in, first-out method. Lubes and spares are expensed as incurred.

(g) Vessels and Vessel Improvements, At Cost: Vessels are stated at cost, which consists of the contract price, and other direct costs relating to acquiring and placing the vessels in service. Major vessel improvements such as scrubbers and ballast water systems are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful lives of the vessels. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the vessels based on the cost of the vessels reduced by the estimated scrap value of the vessels as discussed below. The Company estimates the useful life of the Company's vessels to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard to the original owner. In addition, the Company estimates the scrap value of its vessels to be $300 per lwt.

(h) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. When the Company determines that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable, an estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is compared to its carrying amount. The Company uses the 15-year average of oneand three year time charter rates as published by a reputable independent third-party shipping broker in its estimation of undiscounted cash flows. When an asset's estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than its carrying amount, the Company will record an impairment loss. Measurement of an impairment loss is based on the amount by which an asset's carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company uses information obtained from independent third-parties in its estimation of the fair values (basic charter-free market value) of its vessels. The Company reviews, on an annual basis, the assumptions used in the estimation of undiscounted cash flows. We did not recognize any impairment charges on our vessels and vessel improvements for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.

(i) Accounting for Drydocking Costs: The Company follows the deferral method of accounting for drydocking costs whereby actual costs incurred are deferred and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the period through the date the next drydocking is required to become due, generally 30 months for vessels that are 15 years old or more and 60 months for vessels that are less than 15 years old. Costs deferred as part of the drydocking include direct costs that are incurred as part of the drydocking to meet regulatory

F- 15

requirements. Certain costs are capitalized during drydocking if they are expenditures that add economic life to the vessel, increase the vessel's earnings capacity or improve the vessel's efficiency. Direct costs that are deferred include the shipyard costs, parts, inspection fees, steel, blasting and painting. Expenditures for normal maintenance and repairs, whether incurred as part of the drydocking or not, are expensed as incurred. Unamortized drydocking costs of vessels that are sold are written off and included in the calculation of the resulting gain or loss in the year of the vessels' sale. Unamortized drydocking costs are written off as drydocking expense if the vessels are drydocked before the expiration of the applicable amortization period.

(j) Deferred Financing Costs: Fees incurred for obtaining new loans or refinancing existing ones are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of the related debt using the effective interest method. Unamortized deferred financing costs are written off when the related debt is repaid or refinanced and such amounts are expensed in the period the repayment or refinancing is made. Such amounts are classified as a reduction of the long-term debt balance on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

(k) Other Fixed Assets: Other fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is based on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Other fixed assets consist principally of leasehold improvements, computers and software and are depreciated over three years. Depreciation expense for other fixed assets for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively.

(l) Leases: Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the net present value of fixed lease payments and variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate using the discount rate implicit in the lease, or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company's incremental borrowing rate. The Company's incremental borrowing rate is the rate that the Company would have to pay to borrow, on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to a lease's lease payments in a similar economic environment. Operating lease right-of-use assets are generally recognized based on the related lease liabilities. Operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets are recognized for leases with a lease term (which includes periods covered by options to extend if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise that option) that is greater than twelve months.

Operating lease right-of-use assets are assessed for any potential impairment on each balance sheet date or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset group's carrying value may not be recoverable. The Company uses BSI forward curve data and time charter market rates that best align to an operating lease's remaining lease term as published by independent third-party sources in its estimation of undiscounted cash flows. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2020, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $2.2 million and $0.4 million on operating lease right-of-use assets. No impairment charge on operating lease right-of-use assets was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Time charter-out contracts are accounted for as operating leases as (i) the vessel is an identifiable asset, (ii) the Company does not have substantive substitution rights and (iii) the charterer has the right to control the use of the vessel during the contractual term of the related time charter agreement and derives an economic benefit from its use. Under time charter-out contracts, the Company does not separate lease and non-lease components as the timing and pattern of transfer of lease and non-lease components are the same and the lease components, if accounted for separately, would be classified as an operating lease.

(m) Revenue Recognition: Revenues are derived from time and voyage charters.

Revenues from time charter contracts, which are accounted for as operating leases, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the related time charter agreement.

Voyage charter contracts generally consist of a single performance obligation of transportation of cargo within a specified period of time. This performance obligation is satisfied over time as the related voyage progresses and the related revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated relative transit

F- 16

time (in voyage days) from the commencement of the loading of cargo to the completion of discharge, provided an agreed non-cancellable charter between the Company and the charterer is in existence, the charter rate is fixed and determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.

(n) Voyage Expenses and Vessel Operating Expenses: Voyage expenses primarily consists of bunker costs, port charges, canal tolls and the cost of cargo handling operations incurred under voyage charter contracts. Similar costs under time charter contracts are the responsibility of the Company's customers (the charterer) and are not recorded by the Company. Brokerage commissions incurred under time charter and voyage charter contracts are also included in voyage expenses. Brokerage commissions are deferred and recognized over the related contractual charter term. Vessel operating expenses primarily consists of crewing, vessel repairs and maintenance and vessel insurance costs. Except for brokerage commissions, voyage expenses and vessel operating expenses are expensed as incurred on an accrual basis.

At the inception of a time charter, the Company records the difference between the cost of bunkers from the previous charterer and the cost of bunkers sold to the current charterer as a gain or loss within voyage expenses. Additionally, the Company records lower of cost and net realizable value adjustments to re-value the bunker fuel on a quarterly basis for certain time charter agreements where the inventory is subject to gains and losses. These differences in bunkers, including any lower of cost and net realizable value adjustments, resulted in a net gain of $8.1 million, $6.3 million and $0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Additionally, voyage expenses include the cost of bunkers consumed during the ballast period for time charter voyages. The ballast period starts from the completion of the previous voyage and ends on the delivery of the vessel to the current charterers.

(o) Unearned Charter Hire Revenue: Unearned charter hire revenue represents cash received from charterers prior to the time such amounts are earned. These amounts are recognized as revenue as services are provided in future periods.

(p) Protection and Indemnity Insurance: The Company's protection and indemnity insurance is subject to additional premiums referred to as "back calls" or "supplemental calls" which are accounted for on an accrual basis over the related coverage period and are recorded in vessel operating expenses.

(q) Earnings Per Share: The computation of basic net income/(loss) per share is based on income available to common stockholders divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the reporting period. Diluted net income/(loss) per share gives effect to dilutive securities, unless the impact of such securities is anti-dilutive.

(r) Interest Rate Risk Management: The Company is exposed to the impact of changes in benchmark interest rates on its outstanding debt under the Term Facility and Revolving Facility as part of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility (as each of these terms is defined below.) The Company manages its exposure to the impact of changes in benchmark interest rates on its earnings and cash flows through the use of interest rate swap derivative instruments. See Note 7, Debt and Note 8, Derivative Instruments for additional details.

(s) Federal Taxes: The Company is a Republic of the Marshall Islands Corporation. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company believes that its operations qualify for Internal Revenue Code Section 883 exemption and therefore are not subject to United States federal taxes on United States source shipping income.

(t) Stock-Based Compensation: The Company generally measures stock-based compensation based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant and recognizes the related expense over the vesting period on a straight-line basis using the graded vesting method. The grant date fair value of stock options is generally estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The grant date fair value of stock-based compensation awards that are contingent upon a total shareholder return-based market condition is generally estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Expense for stock-based compensation awards that include performance conditions are initially calculated and subsequently remeasured based on the

F- 17

outcome deemed probable of occurring, and recognized over the vesting period, with the ultimate amount of expense recognized based on the actual performance outcome. Expense for stock-based compensation awards that include market conditions are calculated based on grant date fair value and recognized over the vesting period, whether or not, and regardless to what extent, the market condition is satisfied. Forfeitures of stock-based compensation are accounted for as they occur. See Note 14, Stock Incentive Plans, for additional information.

(u) Collateral on Derivatives: The Company separately presents the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral from the fair value of derivative instruments. The amount of collateral required to be posted is defined in the terms of respective master agreements executed with counterparties or exchanges and is required when agreed-upon threshold limits are exceeded. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company posted cash collateral related to derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements of $0.9 million and $15.1 million, respectively, which is recorded within Collateral on derivatives in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2020-06, Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity's Own Equity , ("ASU 2020-06"). ASU 2020-06 simplifies the accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, including convertible instruments and contracts on an entity's own equity. ASU 2020-06 removes from U.S. GAAP the separation models for (1) convertible debt with a cash conversion feature and (2) convertible instruments with a beneficial conversion feature. As a result, after adopting the ASU's guidance, entities will not separately present in equity an embedded conversion feature in such debt. Instead, the entity will account for a convertible debt instrument wholly as debt, and for convertible preferred stock wholly as preferred stock (i.e., as a single unit of account), unless (1) a convertible instrument contains features that require bifurcation as a derivative under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815, Derivatives and Hedging, or (2) a convertible debt instrument was issued at a substantial premium. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 as of January 1, 2022 under the modified retrospective approach. Accordingly, the Convertible Bond Debt will no longer require bifurcation and separate accounting of its equity component. The related debt discount will no longer be amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond and thus an adjustment to beginning retained earnings of $8.7 million was recorded within Accumulated deficit reflecting the cumulative impact of adoption. Additionally, a $20.7 million reduction to Additional paid-in capital was recorded to reverse the equity component and an offsetting $12.0 million was recorded within Convertible Bond Debt, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs as a reversal of the debt discount.

In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting ("ASU 2020-04"). ASU 2020-04 provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying U.S. GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships and other transactions that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued because of reference rate reform. ASU 2020-04 establishes (1) a general contract modification principle that entities can apply in other areas that may be affected by reference rate reform and (2) certain elective hedge accounting expedients. ASU 2020-04 is optional and effective for all entities as of March 12, 2020 and may be applied prospectively to contract modifications made on or before December 31, 2024 (as extended by ASU 2022-06, Deferral of the Sunset Date of Topic 848 ). In January 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-01, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848), Scope ("ASU 2021-01"), which clarifies certain provisions in Topic 848, if elected by an entity, to apply to derivative instruments that use interest rate for margining, discounting, or contract price alignment that is modified as a result of reference rate reform. The Company has not yet modified any contracts under the expedients or exceptions allowed by ASU 2020-04 or ASU 2021-01. If and when a contract modification within the scope of ASU 2020-04 occurs, it is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

F- 18

Note 3. Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Cash paid for interest for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 totaled $16.5 million, $26.0 million and $29.6 million, respectively.

A summary of non-cash investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

                                                                             For the Years Ended 
                                                                             December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Accruals for the purchase of vessels and vessel improvements                 $                   30                  $   73       $   - 
Accruals for the purchase of scrubbers and ballast water treatment systems   $                   388                 $   3,307    $   3,155 
Accruals for debt and equity issuance costs                                  $                   -                   $   -        $   260 
Accruals for dividends payable                                               $                   2,245               $   491      $   - 
Fair value of warrants issued as consideration for the purchase of vessels   $                   -                   $   10,680   $   - 
Note 4. Vessels and Vessel Improvements

As of December 31, 2022, the Company's owned fleet consisted of 53 drybulk vessels.

During the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification 2015-built Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $24.3 million. The Company paid a deposit of $3.6 million on this vessel as of December 31, 2022. The vessel was delivered to the Company during the first quarter of 2023.

During the third quarter of 2022, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification 2015-built scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $27.5 million. The vessel was delivered to the Company during the fourth quarter of 2022.

During the second quarter of 2022, the Company signed a memorandum of agreement to sell the vessel Cardinal (a 2004-built Supramax) for total consideration of $15.8 million. The vessel was delivered to the buyer during the third quarter of 2022. The Company recorded a gain of $9.3 million upon sale of the vessel in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2022.

During the second quarter of 2021, the Company signed a memorandum of agreement to sell the vessel Tern (a 2003-built Supramax) for total net consideration of $9.2 million after commissions and associated selling expenses. The vessel was delivered to the buyer during the third quarter of 2021. The Company recorded a gain of $4.0 million and wrote off $0.3 million of unamortized drydock costs upon sale of the vessel in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

During the second quarter of 2021, the Company entered into memorandum of agreements to acquire two high-specification 2015-built, scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulkcarriers. This acquisition was partially financed with cash on hand, which included proceeds raised from equity issued under the Company's ATM Offering. The total cost of the vessels acquired including the direct costs of acquisition was $42.2 million. The Company took delivery of the two vessels in each of the third and fourth quarters of 2021.

F- 19

During the first quarter of 2021, the Company entered into another series of memorandum of agreements to purchase four vessels. The first vessel was a high-specification 2017-built, scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulkcarrier for a total purchase price of $15.3 million and a warrant convertible into 212,315 common shares of the Company. The remaining three vessels were 2011-built, Crown-58 Supramax bulkcarriers that were purchased for a total purchase price of $20.5 million and a warrant convertible into 329,583 common shares of the Company. The above mentioned prices include direct expenses of acquisition. Common shares were issuable upon exercise of warrants on a pro-rata basis in connection with each vessel delivery. The warrants were measured at fair value on the date of the memorandum of agreement and recorded as Vessels and vessel improvements in the Consolidated Balance Sheets when the Company took delivery of the vessels. The fair value of the warrants for the total of 541,898 common shares was approximately $10.7 million as of the date of the memorandum of agreements for each vessel. The Company took delivery of the four vessels during the second and third quarters of 2021 and issued 541,898 shares of common stock upon conversion of outstanding warrants.

During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company entered into a series of memorandum of agreements to purchase two high-specification 2015-built, scrubber-fitted Ultramax bulkcarriers and one high-specification 2016-built, scrubber fitted Ultramax bulkcarrier for a total purchase price of $51.5 million including direct expenses of acquisition. The Company paid a deposit of $3.3 million on these vessels as of December 31, 2020. The Company took delivery of the vessels during the first quarter of 2021.

In 2018, the Company entered into a contract for the purchase of BWTS for its owned vessels. As of December 31, 2022, 48 of our owned vessels have BWTS installed. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded $8.2 million in Vessels and vessel improvements in the Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the acquisition and installation of BWTS. As of December 31, 2022, the Company made payments of $2.0 million related to BWTS that are expected to be acquired and installed during scheduled drydockings in 2023 and are recorded in Advances for ballast water systems and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Activity within Vessels and vessel improvements for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 is as follows:

                                                                      December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Beginning balance                                                     $                   908,076   $   810,714 
Transfer from advances paid for vessel purchases                      -                   3,250 
Purchase of vessels and vessel improvements                           28,289              128,326 
Fair value of warrants issued as consideration for vessel purchases   -                   10,680 
Sale of vessels                                                       (5,592)             (4,886) 
Purchase of scrubbers and BWTS                                        8,794               4,589 
Depreciation expense                                                  (47,690)            (44,597) 
Ending balance                                                        $                   891,877   $   908,076 
F- 20

Note 5. Deferred Drydock Costs

Activity within Deferred drydock costs, net for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 is as follows:

                                   December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Beginning Balance                  $                   37,093   $   24,154 
Drydocking expenditures            18,422              21,906 
Accrued drydocking expenditures    589                 - 
Amortization expense               (13,244)            (8,656) 
Write-off due to sale of vessels   (11)                (311) 
Ending Balance                     $                   42,849   $   37,093 
Note 6. Other Accrued Liabilities

Other accrued liabilities consists of the following:

                                                       December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Vessel and voyage expenses                             $                   11,877   $   7,468 
General, administrative and other operating expenses   8,516               8,556 
BWTS and drydocking costs                              2,666               1,743 
Dividends payable                                      1,038               226 
$                                                      24,097              $        17,994 
Note 7. Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:

                                                                       December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Convertible Bond Debt                                                  $                   104,119   $   114,119 
Debt discount and debt issuance costs - Convertible Bond Debt          (620)               (13,165) 
Convertible Bond Debt, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs    103,499             100,954 
Global Ultraco Debt Facility                                           237,750             287,550 
Debt discount and debt issuance costs - Global Ultraco Debt Facility   (6,767)             (8,460) 
Less: Current portion - Global Ultraco Debt Facility                   (49,800)            (49,800) 
Global Ultraco Debt Facility, net of debt issuance costs               181,183             229,290 
Total long-term debt                                                   $                   284,682   $   330,244 
Convertible Bond Debt

On July 29, 2019, the Company issued $114.1 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 (the "Convertible Bond Debt"). After deducting debt discount of $1.6 million, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $112.5 million. Additionally, the Company incurred $1.0 million of debt issuance costs relating to the transaction. The Company used the proceeds to partially finance the purchase of six

F- 21

Ultramax vessels and for general corporate purposes, including working capital. The Company took delivery of the vessels in the third and fourth quarters of 2019.

During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company repurchased $10.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Bond Debt for $14.2 million in cash and cancelled the repurchased debt. Accordingly, a $4.2 million loss on debt extinguishment was recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. As a result of these repurchases, the Company's weighted average diluted shares for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased by 306,947 shares.

The Convertible Bond Debt bears interest at a rate of 5.0% per annum on the outstanding principal amount thereof, payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, which commenced on February 1, 2020. The Convertible Bond Debt may bear additional interest upon certain events, as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Bond Debt (the "Indenture").

The Convertible Bond Debt will mature on August 1, 2024 (the "Maturity Date"), unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted pursuant to its terms. From time to time, the Company may, subject to market conditions and other factors and to the extent permitted by law, opportunistically repurchase the Convertible Bond Debt in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. The Company may not otherwise redeem the Convertible Bond Debt prior to the Maturity Date.

Each holder has the right to convert any portion of the Convertible Bond Debt, provided such portion is of $1,000 or a multiple thereof, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the Maturity Date. The conversion rate of the Convertible Bond Debt after adjusting for the Reverse Stock Split and the Company's cash dividends declared through December 31, 2022 is 30.6947 shares of the Company's common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Bond Debt, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $32.58 per share of its common stock (subject to further adjustments for future dividends).

Upon conversion of the remaining bonds, the Company will pay or deliver, as the case may be, either cash, shares of its common stock or a combination of cash and shares of its common stock, at the Company's election, to the holder (subject to shareholder approval requirements in accordance with the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange).

If the Company undergoes a fundamental change, as set forth in the Indenture, each holder may require the Company to repurchase all or part of their Convertible Bond Debt for cash in principal amounts of $1,000 or a multiple thereof. The fundamental change repurchase price will be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Bond Debt to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If, however, the holders elect to convert their Convertible Bond Debt in connection with the fundamental change, the Company will be required to increase the conversion rate of the Convertible Bond Debt at a rate determined by a combination of the date the fundamental change occurs and the stock price of the Company's common stock on such date.

The Convertible Bond Debt is the general, unsecured senior obligation of the Company. It ranks: (i) senior in right of payment to any of the Company's indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Convertible Bond Debt; (ii) equal in right of payment to any of the Company's unsecured indebtedness that is not so subordinated; (iii) effectively junior in right of payment to any of the Company's secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and (iv) structurally junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities of current or future subsidiaries of the Company.

The indenture also provides for customary events of default. Generally, if an event of default occurs and is continuing, then the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Bond Debt then outstanding may declare 100% of the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Convertible Bond Debt then outstanding to be due and payable.

For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company attributed a portion of the proceeds to the equity component within the Convertible Bond Debt and the resulting debt discount was amortized using the effective

F- 22

interest method over the expected life of the Convertible Bond Debt as interest expense. As of January 1, 2022, in connection with the adoption of ASU 2020-06, a $20.7 million reduction to Additional paid-in capital was recorded to reverse the equity component, an offsetting $12.0 million was recorded to Convertible Bond Debt, net of debt discount and debt issuance costs as a reversal of the debt discount and an adjustment to beginning retained earnings of $8.7 million was recorded within Accumulated deficit reflecting the cumulative impact of adoption. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, for discussion of the impact of ASU 2020-06 on the accounting for the Convertible Bond Debt.

Share Lending Agreement

In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Bond Debt, certain persons entered into an arrangement (the "Share Lending Agreement") to borrow up to 511,840 shares of the Company's common stock through share lending arrangements from Jefferies LLC ("JCS"), an initial purchaser of the Convertible Bond Debt, which in turn entered into an arrangement to borrow the shares from an entity affiliated with Oaktree Capital Management, L.P., one of the Company's shareholders. The number of shares under the Share Lending Agreement have been adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split. As of December 31, 2022, the fair value of the 511,840 outstanding loaned shares was $25.6 million based on the closing price of the common stock on December 31, 2022. In connection with the Share Lending Agreement, JCS paid $0.03 million representing a nominal fee per borrowed share, equal to the par value of the Company's common stock.

While the share lending agreement does not require cash payment upon return of the shares, physical settlement is required (i.e., the loaned shares must be returned at the end of the arrangement). In view of this share return provision and other contractual undertakings of JCS in the share lending agreement, which have the effect of substantially eliminating the economic dilution that otherwise would result from the issuance of borrowed shares, the loaned shares are not considered issued and outstanding for accounting purposes and for the purpose of computing and reporting the Company's basic and diluted weighted average shares or earnings per share. If JCS were to file bankruptcy or commence similar administrative, liquidating or restructuring proceedings, the Company will have to consider the 511,840 shares lent to JCS as issued and outstanding for the purposes of calculating earnings per share.

Global Ultraco Debt Facility

On October 1, 2021, Eagle Bulk Ultraco LLC ("Eagle Ultraco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, along with certain of its vessel-owning subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a new senior secured credit facility (the "Global Ultraco Debt Facility") with the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders") Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank ("Crédit Agricole"), Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (PUBL), Danish Ship Finance A/S, Nordea Bank ABP, Filial I Norge, DNB Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and ING Bank N.V., London Branch. The Global Ultraco Debt Facility provides for an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million, which consists of (i) a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million (the "Term Facility") and (ii) a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million (the "Revolving Facility") to be used for refinancing the outstanding debt including accrued interest and commitment fees under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility, New Ultraco Debt Facility and Norwegian Bond Debt (collectively, the "Previous Debt Facilities"), which are discussed below and for general corporate purposes. The Company paid fees of $5.8 million to the Lenders in connection with the transaction.

The Global Ultraco Debt Facility has a maturity date of five years from the date of borrowing on the Term Facility, which is October 1, 2026. Outstanding borrowings bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.10% to 2.80% per annum, depending on certain metrics such as the Company's financial leverage ratio and meeting sustainability linked criteria. Repayments of $12.45 million are due quarterly beginning on December 15, 2021, with a final balloon payment of all outstanding principal and accrued interest due upon maturity. The loan is repayable in whole or in part without premium or penalty prior to the maturity date subject to certain requirements stipulated in the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. Commitment fees accrue at a rate per annum equal to 40% of the higher of (i) the Applicable Margin (as defined within the Global Ultraco Debt Facility) and (ii) 2.45% on the undrawn portion of the Revolving Facility.

F- 23

The Global Ultraco Debt Facility is secured by 49 of the Company's vessels. The Global Ultraco Debt Facility contains certain standard affirmative and negative covenants along with financial covenants. The financial covenants include: (i) a minimum consolidated liquidity based on the greater of (a) $0.6 million per vessel owned directly or indirectly by the Company or (b) 7.5% of the Company's total debt; (ii) a debt to capitalization ratio not greater than 0.60:1.00; (iii) maintaining positive working capital and (iv) a ratio of the fair market value of encumbered vessels to the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility of at least 140%. As of December 31, 2022, the Company was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

Pursuant to the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, the Company borrowed $350.0 million and together with cash on hand repaid the outstanding debt, accrued interest and commitment fees under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility and New Ultraco Debt Facility. Concurrently, the Company issued a 10 day call notice to redeem the outstanding bonds under the Norwegian Bond Debt (as defined herein). Additionally, in October 2021, the Company entered into four interest rate swaps for the notional amount of $300.0 million of the Term Facility under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility at a fixed interest rate ranging between 0.83% and 1.06% to hedge the LIBOR-based floating interest rate (see Note 8, Derivative Instruments, for additional details).

As of December 31, 2022, there are no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Facility.

Holdco Revolving Credit Facility

On March 26, 2021, Eagle Bulk Holdco LLC ("Holdco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a Credit Agreement ("Holdco Revolving Credit Facility") made by and among (i) Holdco, as borrower, (ii) the Company and certain wholly-owned vessel-owning subsidiaries of Holdco, as joint and several guarantors, (iii) the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders (together with their successors and assigns, the "RCF Lenders"), (iv) Crédit Agricole and Nordea Bank ABP, New York Branch, as mandated lead arrangers and (v) Crédit Agricole, as arranger, facility agent and security trustee for the RCF Lenders. Borrowings under the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility were repaid in full on October 1, 2021 from the proceeds of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility. Certain of the lenders in the Holdco Revolving Credit Facility are also lenders in the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, and therefore, the Company accounted for the repayment as a debt modification. Unamortized debt issuance costs related to the Holdco Revolving Debt Facility were deferred and will be amortized over the remaining term of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

New Ultraco Debt Facility

On January 25, 2019, Ultraco Shipping LLC ("Ultraco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a senior secured credit facility, (the "New Ultraco Debt Facility"), which provided for a term loan facility and a revolving credit facility. The proceeds from the New Ultraco Debt Facility were used to repay in full the outstanding debt including accrued interest under a credit agreement entered into by Ultraco on June 28, 2017 and a credit agreement entered into by Eagle Shipping LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, on December 8, 2017 and for general corporate purposes. The Company repaid the New Ultraco Debt Facility in full from the proceeds of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility on October 1, 2021. Certain of the lenders in the New Ultraco Debt Facility are also lenders in the Global Ultraco Debt Facility, and therefore, the Company accounted for the repayment as a debt modification. Unamortized debt issuance costs related to the New Ultraco Debt Facility were deferred and will be amortized over the remaining term of the Global Ultraco Debt Facility.

Super Senior Facility

On December 8, 2017, Eagle Bulk Shipco LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Shipco") entered into a revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount of up to $15.0 million (the "Super Senior Facility"). During the third quarter of 2021, the Company cancelled the Super Senior Facility. There were no outstanding amounts under the facility, and the Company recorded $0.1 million as Loss on debt extinguishment in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

F- 24

Norwegian Bond Debt

On November 28, 2017, Shipco issued $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.25% Senior Secured Bonds (the "Norwegian Bond Debt"). After giving effect to an original issue discount of approximately 1% and deducting offering expenses of $3.1 million, the net proceeds from the issuance of the Norwegian Bond Debt was approximately $195.0 million. Interest on the Norwegian Bond Debt accrued at a rate of 8.25% per annum and the Norwegian Bond Debt were to mature on November 28, 2022.

In October 2021, the Company issued a 10 day call notice to redeem the outstanding bonds under the Norwegian Bond Debt at a redemption price of 102.475% of the nominal amount of each bond. Pursuant to the bond terms, the Company paid $185.6 million consisting of $176.0 million par value of the outstanding bonds, accrued interest of $5.2 million and $4.4 million of a call premium to repay the Norwegian Bond Debt in full on October 18, 2021. The repayment of the Norwegian Bond Debt was considered a debt extinguishment, and therefore, the call premium of $4.4 million and the unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs of $1.6 million were recorded as Loss on debt extinguishment in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

A summary of interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

                                                        For the Years Ended 
                                                        December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Convertible Bond Debt interest                          $                   5,547               $        5,738   $   5,738 
Global Ultraco Debt Facility interest (1)               8,310               2,474               - 
Norwegian Bond Debt interest                            -                   11,710              15,298 
New Ultraco Debt Facility interest (2)                  -                   4,335               7,612 
Holdco Revolving Credit Facility interest               -                   314                 - 
Super Senior Facility interest                          -                   30                  216 
Amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs   2,130               7,083               6,272 
Commitment fees on revolving facilities                 994                 573                 256 
$                                                       16,981              $                   32,257   $       35,393 
(1) Interest expense on the Global Ultraco Debt Facility includes a reduction of $1.9 million of interest and $0.5 million of interest from interest rate derivatives designated as hedging instruments for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. See Note 8, Derivative Instruments for additional information.

(2) Interest expense on the New Ultraco Debt Facility includes $0.5 million and $0.3 million of interest from interest rate derivatives designated as hedging instruments for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Note 8, Derivative Instruments for additional information.

The following table presents the weighted average effective interest rate on the Company's debt obligations, including the amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs and costs associated with commitment fees on revolving facilities for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. In addition, the following table presents the range of contractual interest rates on the Company's debt obligations, excluding the impact of costs associated with commitment fees on revolving facilities for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.

F- 25

                                           For the Years Ended 
                                           December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Weighted average effective interest rate   5.00                %                   6.31   %   6.73   % 
Range of interest rates                   2.35% to 6.87%      2.24% to 8.25%      2.24% to 8.25%
Scheduled Debt Maturities

The following table presents the scheduled maturities of principal amounts of our debt obligations for the next five years.

Global Ultraco Debt Facility  Convertible Bond Debt (1)  Total 
2023                           $                         49,800    $         -   $   49,800 
2024                           49,800                    104,119   153,919 
2025                           49,800                    -         49,800 
2026                           88,350                    -         88,350 
2027                           -                         -         - 
$                              237,750                   $         104,119   $   341,869 
(1) This amount represents the aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Bond Debt outstanding that would be repaid, in cash, at the election of the Company, upon maturity.

Note 8. Derivative Instruments

Interest rate swaps

The Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk on its debt. Generally, the Company enters into interest rate swaps with the objective of effectively converting debt from a floating-rate to a fixed-rate obligation.

For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of other comprehensive income/(loss) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings and is presented in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as the earnings effect of the hedged item.

In October 2021, the Company entered into certain interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $300.0 million with fixed interest rates between 0.83% and 1.06% to hedge the LIBOR-based floating interest rate on the Term Facility. These interest rate swaps are settled in a manner that is consistent with the principal payments required on the Term Facility and ultimately expire on December 15, 2025, which coincides with the maturity date of the Term Facility. These interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedging instruments.

In 2020, the Company entered into certain interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $174.2 million to hedge the LIBOR-based floating interest rate on debt under the New Ultraco Debt Facility. In August 2021, the Company cancelled certain interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $150.8 million and entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $143.0 million, which was subsequently cancelled on October 1, 2021 upon repayment of the New Ultraco Debt Facility.

As of December 31, 2022, the Company had the following outstanding interest rate swaps that were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges.

F- 26

Range of Fixed Rates   Weighted Average Fixed Rate   Notional Amount Outstanding 
0.83% to 1.06%         0.87%                         $   237,750 
The effect of these derivative instruments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 is as follows:

Fair Value of Derivative Assets/(Liabilities) 
Balance Sheet Location                              December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments 
Interest rate contracts - interest rate swaps 
Fair value of derivative assets - current           $                   8,479   $   - 
Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent        8,184               3,112 
$                                                   16,663              $       3,112 
                                                   

Fair value of derivative liabilities - current      $                   -       $   (885) 
Fair value of derivative liabilities - noncurrent   -                   - 
$                                                   -                   $       (885) 
The effect of these instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

Gain/(Loss) Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the Years Ended   Gain/(Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) into Earnings for the Years Ended 
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships                                    December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020   Location of Gain/(Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income into Earnings   December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Interest rate contracts 
Interest rate swaps                                                               $                   16,609              $                   2,106                                                                                            $                   (1,021)             Interest expense   $   1,947   $   (913)   $   111 
Of the amount recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2022, $8.8 million is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months.

F- 27

Forward freight agreements and bunker swaps

The Company uses forward freight agreements ("FFAs") and bunker swaps to manage its exposure to changes in freight rates and market bunker prices, respectively. Generally, the Company enters into FFAs with the objective of effectively fixing freight rates for forecasted charter hire transactions and the Company enters into bunker swaps with the objective of effectively fixing forecasted bunker transactions. The Company utilizes these derivative instruments to economically hedge these risks and does not designate them as hedging instruments. As of December 31, 2022, $0.3 million of collateral was pledged related to outstanding forward freight agreements. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, for a discussion of the Company's policy on collateral on derivatives.

For derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments, changes in the fair value of the instruments and the gain or loss ultimately realized upon settlement of the derivative are reported in Realized and unrealized (gain)/loss on derivative instruments, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

For our bunker swaps, the Company may enter into master netting, collateral and offset agreements with counterparties. As of December 31, 2022, the Company has International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements with five financial institutions which contain netting provisions. In addition to a master agreement with the Company supported by a primary parent guarantee on either side, the Company also has associated credit support agreements in place with the two counterparties which, among other things, provide the circumstances under which either party is required to post eligible collateral, when the market value of transactions covered by these agreements exceeds specified thresholds. The Company does not expect non-performance by any of the counterparties to the Company's bunker swap transactions. As of December 31, 2022, $0.5 million of collateral was pledged related to outstanding bunker swaps. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, for a discussion of the Company's policy on collateral on derivatives.

As of December 31, 2022, the Company had outstanding bunker swap agreements to purchase 5,500 metric tons of low sulphur fuel oil for prices ranging between $492 and $587 per metric ton that will expire during the first quarter of 2023.

A summary of outstanding FFAs as of December 31, 2022 is as follows:

FFA Period                                          Average FFA Contract Price (1)  Number of Days Hedged 
Quarter ending March 31, 2023 - Buy Positions        $                              14,390   (225) 
Quarter ending March 31, 2023 - Sell Positions       $                              14,525   180 
Quarter ending June 30, 2023 - Buy Positions         $                              14,390   (225) 
Quarter ending June 30, 2023 - Sell Positions        $                              14,525   180 
Quarter ending September 30, 2023 - Buy Positions    $                              14,390   (225) 
Quarter ending September 30, 2023 - Sell Positions   $                              14,525   180 
Quarter ending December 31, 2023 - Buy Positions     $                              14,000   (180) 
Quarter ending December 31, 2023 - Sell Positions    $                              14,525   180 
(1) Presented in whole dollars.

F- 28

The effect of these derivative instruments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 is as follows:

Fair Value of Derivative Assets/(Liabilities) 
Balance Sheet Location                              December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 
Commodity contracts - FFAs 
Fair value of derivative assets - current           $                   -      $   4,326 
Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent        -                   - 
$                                                   -                   $      4,326 
                                                   

Fair value of derivative liabilities - current      $                   (70)   $   (3,368) 
Fair value of derivative liabilities - noncurrent   -                   - 
$                                                   (70)                $      (3,368) 
                                                   

Commodity contracts - bunker swaps 
Fair value of derivative assets - current           $                   -      $   343 
Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent        -                   - 
$                                                   -                   $      343 
                                                   

Fair value of derivative liabilities - current      $                   (93)   $   - 
Fair value of derivative liabilities - noncurrent   -                   - 
$                                                   (93)                $      - 
F- 29

The effect of these instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

                                                                                                                         (Gain)/Loss Recognized in Earnings for the Years Ended 
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments   Location in Consolidated Statements of Operations                    December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Commodity contracts 
FFAs                                                Realized and unrealized (gain)/loss on derivative instruments, net   $                   (9,969)             $   41,197   $   4,534 
Bunker Swaps                                        Realized and unrealized (gain)/loss on derivative instruments, net   (3,890)             (2,953)             (9,361) 
$                                                   (13,859)                                                             $                   38,244              $   (4,827) 
Note 9. Fair Value Measurements

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument:

Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash-C arrying values reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets approximate fair value due to their highly liquid and short-term nature.

Collateral on derivatives -Carrying values reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets approximate fair value due to their short-term nature.

Long-term debt -The fair value of Convertible Bond Debt, which is traded in the over-the-counter market, is estimated based on quoted prices in markets that are not active on identical instruments. The carrying amount of the Term Facility under the Global Ultraco Debt Facility approximates its fair value, due to its variable interest rates.

Derivative assets and liabilities -The fair value of derivative assets and liabilities, which includes interest rate swaps, FFAs and bunker swaps, is estimated using observable inputs for similar instruments as of the measurement date and standard valuation techniques to convert future amounts to a single present amount assuming that participants are motivated, but not compelled to transact.

The carrying value of other financial assets and liabilities (primarily accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued expenses) approximate their fair value due to the relative short-term nature of the instruments.

The Company defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and provides disclosures about fair value measurements. The fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements is as follows:

• Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

• Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active or other observable inputs.

• Level 3 - Inputs that are unobservable.

F- 30

The following tables summarize assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2022 and 2021:

Fair Value 
Carrying Value (1)                               Level 1   Level 2 
December 31, 2022 
Assets 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash       $         189,754   $   189,754   $   - 
Collateral on derivatives                        909       909       - 
Fair value of derivative assets - current        8,479     -         8,479 
Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent     8,184     -         8,184 
Liabilities 
Global Ultraco Debt Facility (1)(2)              237,750   -         237,750 
Convertible Bond Debt (1)(3)                     104,119   -         172,661 
Fair value of derivative liabilities - current   163       -         163 
Fair Value 
Carrying Value (1)                               Level 1   Level 2 
December 31, 2021 
Assets 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash       $         86,222   $   86,222   $   - 
Collateral on derivatives                        15,081    15,081   - 
Fair value of derivative assets - current        4,669     -        4,669 
Fair value of derivative assets - noncurrent     3,112     -        3,112 
Liabilities 
Global Ultraco Debt Facility (1)(2)              287,550   -        287,550 
Convertible Bond Debt (1)(3)                     114,119   -        147,499 
Fair value of derivative liabilities - current   4,253     -        4,253 
(1) Carrying value represents outstanding principal amount and excludes debt discounts and debt issuance costs.

(2) The fair value of the liabilities is based on the required repayment to the lenders if the debt was discharged in full on December 31, 2022 and 2021.

(3) The fair value of the Convertible Bond Debt is based on pricing data (including observable trade information) sourced from Bloomberg.com.

F- 31

Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies

Legal Proceedings

The Company is involved in legal proceedings and may become involved in other legal matters arising in the ordinary course of its business, principally personal injury and property casualty claims. Generally, we expect that such claims would be covered by insurance, subject to customary deductibles. The Company evaluates these legal matters on a case-by-case basis to make a determination as to the impact, if any, on its business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

Certain routine commercial claims have been asserted against the Company that relate to contractual disputes with certain of our charterers. The nature of these disputes involve disagreements over losses claimed by charterers during or as a result of the performance of certain voyage charters, including but not limited to delays in the performance of the charters and offhire during the charters. The related legal proceedings are at various stages of resolution.

In March 2021, the U.S. government began investigating an allegation that one of the Company's vessels may have improperly disposed of ballast water that entered the engine room bilges during a repair. The investigation of this alleged violation of environmental laws is ongoing, and although at this time we do not believe that this matter will have a material impact on the Company, our financial condition or results of operations, we cannot determine what penalties, if any, will be imposed. We have posted a surety bond as security for any potential fines, penalties or associated costs that may be incurred, and the Company is cooperating fully with the U.S. government in its investigation of this matter.

We have not been involved in any legal proceedings, other than as disclosed above, which we believe may have, or have had, a significant effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity, nor are we aware of any proceedings that are pending or threatened, other than as described above, which we believe may have a significant effect on our business, financial position and results of operations or liquidity. However, these proceedings, even if lacking merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.

In accordance with US GAAP, the Company accrues for contingent liabilities when it is probable that such a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company evaluates its outstanding legal proceedings each quarter to assess its contingent liabilities and adjusts such liabilities, as appropriate, based on management's best judgment after consultation with counsel. The Company's costs associated with contingent liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were $4.8 million, $2.8 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively. There is no assurance that the Company's contingent liabilities will not need to be adjusted in the future.

Note 11. Leases

The following are the types of contracts the Company has, which are accounted for under lease guidance, ASC 842:

Time charter-out contracts

The Company's shipping revenues are principally generated from time charters and voyage charters. In a time charter contract, the vessel is hired by the charterer for a specified period of time in exchange for consideration which is based on a daily hire rate. The charterer has the full discretion over the ports visited, shipping routes and vessel speed. The contract/charter party generally provides typical warranties regarding the speed and performance of the vessel. The charter party generally has some owner protective restrictions such that the vessel is sent only to safe ports by the charterer, subject always to compliance with applicable sanction laws, and carry only lawful or non-hazardous cargo. In a time charter-out contract, the Company is responsible for costs incurred for running the vessel (e.g., crew costs, vessel insurance, repairs and maintenance and lubes) and the charterer is responsible for voyage-related costs (e.g., bunker costs, port charges and canal tolls) during the hire period. Lease terms for time charter-out contracts generally range from 30 days to 2 years, however, typically include options to extend the lease

F- 32

term. Time charter-out contracts are accounted for as operating leases. The Company records revenue generated from time charter-out contracts on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective time charter agreements as Revenues, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 12, Revenue for additional details.

A summary of lease payments expected to be received on fixed time charter-out contracts, net of commission, assuming no off-hire days, other than those related to scheduled interim or special surveys of the related vessel and excluding any voyage expenses associated with such contracts, as of December 31, 2022 is as follows:

Year:        Time Charter-Out Contracts 
2023         $   32,715 
2024         - 
2025         - 
2026         - 
2027         - 
Thereafter   - 
$            32,715 
Time charter-in contracts

The Company charters in vessels to supplement our own fleet and employs them on both time charters and voyage charters. Lease terms for time charter-in contracts generally range from 30 days to 2 years, however, typically include options to extend the lease term. Lease terms typically commence upon delivery of the vessel to the lessee. Time charter-in contracts are accounted for as operating leases. The Company records operating lease cost for time charter-in contracts as Charter hire expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Due to the volatility of freight rates, the Company generally concludes that it is not reasonably certain to exercise any options to extend the lease term at lease commencement.

Generally, the implicit borrowing rate within time charter-in contracts cannot be readily determined; therefore, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate in initially measuring operating lease liabilities and related right-of-use assets. The Company utilizes its implied credit rating and related yield curve data to determine its incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement based on the related lease term.

A summary of time charter-in contracts with lease terms greater than twelve months outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

(i) The Company entered into an agreement effective April 28, 2017, to charter-in a 61,400 dwt, 2013-built Ultramax vessel for 1600 days with options to extend for twoadditional years. The hire rate for the first charter period is $12,800 per day and the hire rates for the first and second optional year are $13,800 per day and $14,300 per day, respectively. The Company took delivery of the vessel in May 2017. In July 2021, the Company exercised its option for the first additional year and in June 2022, the Company exercised its option for the second additional year. The lease is expected to terminate in September 2023.

(ii) On May 4, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to charter-in a 61,425 dwt, 2013-built Ultramax vessel for three years with an option to extend for twoadditional years. The hire rate for the first three years is $12,700 per day and the hire rates for the first and second optional year is $13,750 per day and $14,750 per day, respectively. The Company took delivery of the vessel in September 2018. In June 2021, the Company exercised its option for the first additional year and in September 2022, the Company exercised its option for the second additional year. The lease is expected to terminate in October 2023.

(iii) On October 17, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to charter-in a 62,487 dwt, 2016-built Ultramax vessel for two years. The hire rate for the first year was $14,250 per day and the hire rate for the

F- 33

second year was $15,250. The Company took delivery of the vessel in December 2018. In December 2019, the Company entered into a lease addendum which replaced the original lease's second year's hire rate with a new hire rate of $11,600 per day from March 1, 2020 through July 31, 2021 and added an option to extend the lease term for an additional year at a hire rate of $12,600 per day from August 1, 2021 through July 31, 2022. In May 2021, the Company exercised its option for the additional year. In March 2022, the Company entered into a lease addendum that extended the lease term at a hire rate of $23,888 per day from August 1, 2022 through June 1, 2023 and added an option to extend the lease term at a hire rate of $25,888 per day from June 2, 2023 through July 1, 2024. The lease is expected to terminate in June 2023.

(iv) On December 22, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to charter-in a 63,634 dwt, 2021-built Ultramax vessel for twelve months with an option to extend for an additional three months at a hire rate of $5,900 per day plus 57% of the BSI and an option to extend for an additional elevento thirteen months at a hire rate of $6,500 per day plus 57% of the BSI. In addition, the agreement requires the Company to share 50% of the scrubber benefit with the lessor, calculated as the price differential between high sulfur and low sulfur fuel oil based on actual bunker consumption during the lease term. The Company took delivery of the vessel in July 2021. In May 2022, the Company exercised its option for the additional elevento thirteen month period. The lease is expected to terminate in September 2023.

(v) On September 6, 2021, the Company entered into an agreement to charter-in a 64,539 dwt, 2022-built Ultramax vessel for twelve months with an option to extend for an additional three months at a hire rate of $11,250 per day plus 57.5% of the BSI and an option to extend for an additional year at a hire rate of $10,750 per day plus 57.5% of the BSI. The Company took delivery of the vessel in May 2022 and the lease is expected to terminate in June 2023.

During the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company determined that impairment indicators were present for one of our chartered-in vessel contracts and, as a result, recorded an operating lease right-of-use asset impairment of $2.2 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. In 2020, the Company determined that impairment indicators were present for one of our chartered-in vessel contracts and, as a result, recorded an operating lease right-of-use asset impairment of $0.4 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Office leases

On October 15, 2015, the Company entered into a commercial lease agreement as a sublessee for office space in Stamford, Connecticut. The lease is effective from January 2016 through June 2023, with an average annual rent of $0.4 million. On September 30, 2022, the Company entered into a lease agreement as principal tenant to lease the same office space effective July 1, 2023 through December 31, 2028 with an average annual rent of $0.5 million.

In November 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement for office space in Singapore for an original term of three years, which was set to expire in October 2021, with an average annual rent of $0.3 million. In August 2021, the Company renewed the lease for a term of five years from March 15, 2022 with an average annual rent of $0.3 million. This lease is expected to expire in March 2027.

In August 2021, the Company entered into a lease agreement for an additional office space in Singapore for a term of fifty-seven months from June 15, 2022, with an average annual rent of $0.1 million. The Company took possession of the premises in February 2022. This lease is expected to terminate in March 2027.

The Company determined each of its office leases to be operating leases and recorded the related lease expense as General and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.

F- 34

A summary of Operating lease right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities balances, by asset type, and certain additional quantitative information related to the Company's operating leases as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 is as follows:

Description                                        December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Operating lease right-of-use assets 
Time charter-in contracts greater than 12 months   $                   19,116   $     15,039 
Office leases                                      3,890               1,978 
$                                                  23,006              $        17,017 
Current portion of operating lease liabilities 
Time charter-in contracts greater than 12 months   $                   21,328   $     15,039 
Office leases                                      717                 689 
$                                                  22,045              $        15,728 
Noncurrent portion of operating lease liabilities 
Time charter-in contracts greater than 12 months   $                   -        $     - 
Office leases                                      3,173               1,282 
$                                                  3,173               $        1,282 
Weighted average remaining lease term (in years) 
Time charter-in contracts greater than 12 months   0.6                 0.7 
Office leases                                      4.7                 4.0 
Weighted average discount rate 
Time charter-in contracts greater than 12 months   6.0                 %        1.4   % 
Office leases                                      6.9                 %        4.1   % 
A summary of the components of the Company's lease expenses and sub-lease income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

                                                          For the Years Ended 
                                                          December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Operating lease cost 
Time charter-in contracts greater than twelve months      $                   28,282              $   16,548   $   12,548 
Office leases                                             748                 642                 734 
Short-term lease cost 
Time charter-in contracts less than twelve months         52,821              20,553              8,732 
Total lease cost                                          $                   81,851              $   37,743   $   22,014 
                                                         

Sublease income, gross 
Time charter-in contracts greater than twelve months (1)  $                   32,980              $   25,372   $   8,589 
(1) Sublease income on time-charter-in contracts is recorded in Revenues, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

F- 35

A summary of cash flow information related to the Company's leases for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

                                                                                 For the Years Ended 
                                                                                 December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Cash paid for operating leases with lease terms greater than twelve months       $                   29,130              $   18,051   $   14,018 
                                                                                

Non-cash activities 
Operating lease right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease liabilities   $                   38,956              $   22,499   $   - 
A summary of total lease payments on an undiscounted basis for operating lease liabilities, by asset type, as of December 31, 2022 is as follows:

Time charter-in contracts greater than 12 months   Office leases   Total Operating leases 
Year: 
2023                                               $               21,651   $   869     $   22,520 
2024                                               -               874      874 
2025                                               -               871      871 
2026                                               -               871      871 
2027                                               -               574      574 
Thereafter                                         -               500      500 
21,651                                             4,559           26,210 
Implied interest                                   (323)           (669)    (992) 
Total operating lease liabilities                  $               21,328   $   3,890   $   25,218 
Note 12. Revenue

Voyage charters

In a voyage charter contract, the charterer hires the vessel to transport a specific agreed-upon cargo for a single voyage which may contain multiple load ports and discharge ports. The consideration in such a contract is determined on the basis of a freight rate per metric ton of cargo carried or occasionally on a lump sum basis. The charter party generally has a minimum amount of cargo. The charterer is liable for any short loading of cargo or "dead" freight. The voyage contract generally has standard payment terms of 95% freight paid within three days after completion of loading. The voyage charter party generally has a "demurrage" or "despatch" clause. As per this clause, the charterer reimburses the Company for any potential delays exceeding the allowed laytime at the ports visited which is recorded as demurrage revenue. Conversely, the charterer is given credit if the loading/discharging activities happen within the allowed laytime known as despatch, resulting in a reduction in revenue.

The voyage contracts are considered service contracts which fall under the provisions of ASC 606, Revenue Recognition , because the Company, as the shipowner, retains the control over the operations of the vessel such as directing the routes taken or the vessel speed. The voyage contracts generally have variable consideration in the form of demurrage or despatch. The amount of revenue earned as demurrage, net of despatch incurred, for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $33.7 million, $20.7 million and $6.3 million, respectively.

F- 36

The following table shows the revenues earned from time charters and voyage charters for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020:

For the Years Ended 
December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Time charters (1)   $                   343,084   $         299,614   $   105,028 
Voyage charters     376,763             294,924   170,106 
$                   719,847             $         594,538   $         275,134 
(1) See Note 11, Leases, for a description of revenues earned from time charters.

Contract costs

In a voyage charter contract, the Company bears all voyage related costs such as fuel costs, port charges and canal tolls. Costs directly related to a contract that are incurred prior to commencement of loading cargo, primarily bunkers, are recognized as an asset and are expensed on a straight-line basis as the related performance obligation is satisfied. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company recorded $0.5 million and $0.7 million, respectively, of contract fulfillment costs in Other current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Note 13. Net Income/(Loss) per Common Share

For each of the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, Net income/(loss) is equal to Net income/(loss) available to common shareholders.

For each of the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Convertible Bond Debt is not considered a participating security and is therefore not included in the computation of Basic net income/(loss) per share. Additionally, the Company determined that as it relates to the Convertible Bond Debt, it does not overcome the presumption of share settlement, and therefore, the Company applied the if-converted method and included the potential shares to be issued upon conversion of Convertible Bond Debt in the calculation of Diluted net income/(loss) per share, unless the impact of such potential shares is anti-dilutive.

F- 37

The following table presents Basic and Diluted net income/(loss) per share for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020:

                                      For the Years Ended 
                                      December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Net income/(loss)                     $                   248,009             $   184,898   $   (35,063) 
                                     

Weighted Average Shares - Basic       12,989,951          12,399,509          10,310,246 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
Convertible Bond Debt                 3,195,901           3,052,352           - 
Stock awards and options              127,595             232,531             - 
Dilutive potential common shares      3,323,496           3,284,883           - 
                                     

Weighted Average Shares - Diluted     16,313,447          15,684,392          10,310,246 
                                     

Basic net income/(loss) per share     $                   19.09               $   14.91     $   (3.40) 
Diluted net income/(loss) per share   $                   15.57               $   11.79     $   (3.40) 
The following table presents a summary of potentially dilutive securities that were not included in the computation of Diluted net income/(loss) per share for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 because to do so would have been anti-dilutive:

                           For the Years Ended 
                           December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Convertible Bond Debt      -                   -                   2,906,035 
Stock awards and options   21,716              -                   543,604 
Warrants                   -                   -                   21,718 
21,716                     -                   3,471,357 
Note 14. Stock Incentive Plans

2014 Management Incentive Plan

On October 15, 2014, in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization, the Company adopted the post-emergence Management Incentive Program (the "2014 Plan"), which provided for the distribution of common stock and options to certain members of its senior management team and certain other employees.

As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, there were no restricted stock awards or options vested and unexercised or unvested and unexercised outstanding under the 2014 Plan. The 2016 Plan (as described below) replaced the 2014 Plan and no other awards will be granted under the 2014 Plan.

F- 38

2016 Equity Compensation Plan

On December 15, 2016, the Company's shareholders approved the Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. 2016 Equity Compensation Plan (the "2016 Plan") and the Company registered 764,087 shares of common stock for potential issuance under the 2016 Plan. On June 7, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment and restatement of the 2016 Plan, which increased the number of shares reserved under the 2016 Plan by an additional 357,142 shares to a maximum of 1,121,229 shares of common stock. On June 14, 2022, the Company's shareholders approved a second amendment and restatement of the 2016 Plan, which increased the number of shares reserved under the 2016 Plan by an additional 300,000 shares to a maximum of 1,421,229 shares of common stock. The 2016 Plan permits the granting of restricted stock, unrestricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance condition awards, incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalents and other equity-based or equity-related awards (collectively, "Awards"). As of December 31, 2022, 319,021 shares were eligible to be granted under the 2016 Plan.

Under the terms of the 2016 Plan, awards for up to a maximum of 428,571 shares of common stock, in the form of Awards, may be granted to any one employee of the Company and its subsidiaries during any one calendar year, subject to adjustment as provided in the 2016 Plan. In addition, awards for up to a maximum of 71,428 shares of common stock, in the form of Awards, may be granted under the 2016 Plan to any non-employee director of the Company during any one calendar year, subject to adjustment as provided in the 2016 Plan. Any director, officer, employee or consultant of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (including any prospective officer or employee) is eligible to be designated to participate in the 2016 Plan. The Company, in its sole discretion, may withhold shares with a fair market value equivalent to the maximum statutory withholding liability when an award holder elects to have the Company withhold from delivery shares of common stock and remit that amount in cash to the appropriate taxation authorities.

During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company granted restricted stock awards to certain employees. Generally, these restricted stock awards vest in threeequal installments on January 2nd of each of the threeyears that follow the date of grant, however, certain of these awards vest in a single installment after a specified period of time following the date of grant. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company granted unrestricted stock awards to the non-employee members of the Board of Directors. Generally, these unrestricted stock awards vest upon grant. The fair value of these restricted and unrestricted stock awards was estimated using the closing share price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant.

During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company granted performance-based restricted stock and RSU awards that were contingent upon the Company's earnings per share for a specified performance period. The total quantity of restricted shares and RSUs eligible to vest under these awards range from zero to 200% of the target based on actual earnings per share during the performance period. The grant date fair value of these awards was estimated using the closing share price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant and compensation cost related to these awards is recognized based on the relative satisfaction of the performance condition as of the reporting date.

During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company granted performance based restricted stock and RSU awards that were contingent upon the Company's relative total shareholder return ("TSR") for a specified performance period. TSR is calculated based on the Company's total shareholder return compared to that of certain peer companies specified in the related award agreements over the performance period and is calculated based on the change in the average daily closing stock price over a 20-trading-dayperiod from the beginning to the end of the performance period, plus dividends paid during the performance period. The total quantity of restricted shares and RSUs eligible to vest under these awards range from zero to 200% of the target based on actual relative TSR performance during the performance period. The grant date fair value of these awards was estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Significant inputs used in the estimation of fair value of these awards granted during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 is as follows:

F- 39

Significant Input                         December 31, 2022   December 31, 2021 
Closing share price of our common stock  $53.24 to $65.88    $49.77
Risk-free rate of return                 1.05% to 4.23%      0.05%
Expected volatility of our common stock  54.74% to 71.40%    55.66%
Holding period discount                  0.00% to 11.41%     8.10%
Simulation term (in years)               0.81 to 3.5         0.33
Range of target                          0% to 200%          100%
A summary of restricted stock and RSU activity under the 2016 Plan for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is as follows:

                                          Number of Restricted shares and RSUs   Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value   Aggregate Fair Value (in millions) 
Unvested awards as of December 31, 2019   222,786                                $                                        32.63 
Granted                                   107,930                                $                                        22.12 
Vested                                    (109,452)                              $                                        32.63 
Forfeited                                 (3,251)                                $                                        32.63 
Unvested awards as of December 31, 2020   218,013                                $                                        27.48 
Granted                                   160,878                                $                                        36.58 
Vested                                    (124,447)                              $                                        29.62 
Forfeited                                 (7,818)                                $                                        31.33 
Unvested awards as of December 31, 2021   246,626                                $                                        32.72 
Granted                                   205,131                                $                                        52.90 
Vested                                    (125,033)                              $                                        33.78 
Forfeited                                 (3,596)                                $                                        34.46 
Unvested awards as of December 31, 2022   323,128                                $                                        45.10   $   16.1 
The fair value as of the respective vesting dates of restricted stock and RSUs for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $5.6 million, $2.7 million and $3.2 million, respectively. The majority of restricted stock and RSUs that vested during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were net share settled. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, 46 thousand, 43 thousand and 39 thousand shares were withheld by the Company and $2.4 million, $1.9 million and $1.2 million was paid to taxing authorities for employee tax obligations, respectively.

Prior to December 31, 2019, certain stock options were granted to employees of the Company under the 2016 Plan. As of December 31, 2022, there were no options vested and unexercised or unvested and unexercised outstanding under the 2016 Plan. As of December 31, 2021, there were 47,568 options vested but not exercised with a weighted average exercise price and grant date fair value of $38.92 and $18.20 per option, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2022, 47,568 options with an aggregate intrinsic value of $0.6 million were exercised, 39,491 stock options were cancelled by the Company in satisfaction of employee tax obligations and 8,077 shares of common stock were issued.

F- 40

Stock-based compensation expense, which is recognized in General and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was as follows:

                                   For the Years Ended 
December 31, 2022                  December 31, 2021   December 31, 2020 
Stock-based compensation expense   $                   6,108   $   3,481   $   3,048 
Stock-based compensation expense related to unvested awards yet to be recognized as of December 31, 2022 totaled $8.6 million and is expected to be recognized, on a weighted average basis, over 2.4 years.

Note 15. Employee Benefit Plan

In October 2010, the Company established a safe harbor 401(k) plan, which is available to full-time U.S.-based office employees who meet the plan's eligibility requirements. The plan allows participants to contribute to the plan a percentage of pre-tax compensation, but not in excess of the maximum allowed under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company matches 100% of each participant's contributions, up to 6% of each participant's salary. Matching contributions vest immediately. Total matching contributions incurred and included in General and administrative expenses for each of the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $0.4 million.

The Company has a discretionary profit sharing contribution program under which employees may receive profit sharing contributions based on the Company's annual operating performance. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company did not make a profit sharing contribution.

Note 16. Subsequent Events

On January 30, 2023, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification, scrubber-fitted 2020-built Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $30.1 million. The vessel is expected to be delivered to the Company during the second quarter of 2023.

On February 21, 2023, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to sell the vessel Jaeger (a 2004-built Supramax) for total consideration of $9.0 million. The vessel is expected to be delivered to the buyer in the first quarter of 2023.

On February 28, 2023, the Company entered into a memorandum of agreement to acquire a high-specification, scrubber-fitted 2020-built Ultramax bulkcarrier for total consideration of $30.1 million. The Vessel is expected to be delivered to the Company during the second quarter of 2023.

On March 2, 2023, the Company's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.60 per share to be paid on March 23, 2023 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 15, 2023. The aggregate amount of the dividend is expected to be approximately $8.0 million, which the Company anticipates will be funded from cash on hand.

F- 41

* Original Link[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1322439/0001628280-23-007526-index.html]

Disclaimer

Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. published this content on 10 March 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 10 March 2023 21:58:16 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 SAEXC00020230310ej3a00h84


FLSmidth & Co A/S Annual Shareholders Meeting - Final
10519 字
2023 年 3 月 29 日
VIQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
英文
© 2023 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
Presentation

TOM KNUTZEN, INDEPENDENT CHAIRMAN, FLSMIDTH & CO. A/S: Now it is 4:00 p.m. Welcome shareholders, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you a warm welcome to this AGM of FLSmidth and Company, A/S. My name is Tom Knutzen, I'm the Chair of this Board. I have one task today in addition to welcoming you, I'm also going to welcome everybody watching the online transmission, and I can welcome you in pursuant of section or Article 7 of the Association, and we have the right to point the Chair of this general meeting and I'm pleased to be able to once again because this is a long tradition, I point to Klaus SÃ¸gaard, and he's a partner of law firm of Gorrissen Federspiel, and he is assumed the task of being the Chair of this general meeting.

So I'll pass the floor to Mr. SÃ¸gaard.

KLAUS SÃ¸GAARD: Thank you so much. First, I can sustain that this AGM has been lawfully convened I checked that beforehand. So this was my conclusion that I will draw shortly. Well, we start on time even at the second -- 4 p.m. There are some requirements pursuant to the articles and also the legislation, it must be held in Greater Copenhagen before the end of April and must be summoned before -- at a notice of 3 to 5 weeks. It was convened on the third of March and also by e-mail to those requested as well as notice to the stock exchange. So this means that this meeting is lawful.

As regards to the voting procedures, there's one agenda item relating to an amendment to the articles of the association. We want to change a date that is not complicated, but it takes a majority of 2/3 both of the votes present and also the capital represented. All other proposals can be adopted by a simple majority.

As regards to shareholders presence, 133 shareholders had taken out an admission card and 99 had recorded, 44 had come in just a few minutes before we started and 33 of them had the voting rights by proxy. So we have also had a number of shareholders have inserted proxies. So a little more than 52% altogether represented today and more than 75% of all the votes represented have voted in favor of the agenda items. So I think we will not end up in a situation that we will have to have detailed written votes, but this doesn't mean us from having a good discussion.

The Chair of the Board will make a presentation of the annual report -- together with the annual report and also the Board's recommendations as to the individual items. And afterwards, you can ask questions and make comments and already have the names of 3 different people who want to make statements. So if anybody else wants to take the floor, then you can just advise me when you reach that point.

I'll now pass the floor to Tom Knutzen.

TOM KNUTZEN: Thank you. Looking back at my first year as the Chair of FLSmidth, I dare say that it's been both a busy and eventful year. We're very proud, and I'm speaking on behalf of the Board and management of the efforts and dedication of our employees, which has led to FLSmidth delivering a solid result for 2022 in spite of us like so many others that navigate through a challenging macro environment as well as several changes to our business. Strategy is something which develops over time and in that connection.

Well, then during the past year, particularly 2 things at the forefront to me. Firstly, it's completely clear to us that the future will bring an increased need for increased investments within mining generally as well as in the green transition within the mining and cement industries. Secondly, we must acknowledge that the implementation of our strategy has previously not been fully satisfactory, prompted by the change in our top management led by our new group CEO, Mikko Keto, who joined us on the 1st of January 2022.

We had experienced a significant change in decisiveness and drive. Among others, this has resulted in FLSmidth in 2022, starting what I would call, extensive transformation journey, a transformation journey, which gives me and the board a strengthened view on where we can take FLSmidth in the long run and a strengthened faith in us once and for all being able to ensure a stronger implementation.

Naturally, there will still be bumps in the road as this is the nature of our business, but the journey has begun, and it's an interesting journey, which I both believe in and support fully. As a part of this transformation journey we have in 2022, implemented new pure-play strategies for our mining and cement businesses. This is an important component in being able to trigger our full potential within both mining and cement, where the markets customers and possibilities differ widely. And in that way, the 2 businesses must also be handled differently. This has resulted in there being activities and services that we will, in the future, stop delivering and performing in that connection. We have had to say goodbye to a lot of good colleagues, both within mining and cement. It's always a serious matter to go through. But it has been a necessary step which we've had to take in order to create a stronger, more resistant and more profitable FLSmidth to the advantage of, yes, our employees, our customers and of course, also you and the company's shareholders.

We're grateful for the support which we have so far received from our shareholders in connection with our transformation journey. And here, I would like to particularly welcome our new major shareholder, Altor Fund Manager. Altor brings solid experience with strategy development and creation value and comes with a wish of contributing actively to our journey with the participation of the Board. The support for our new pure-play strategies from both of our major shareholders, well, we see that as a lot of confidence for us being on the right track.

In a moment, I'm going to touch upon some of the other core elements in our transformation journey as well as other highlights in 2022. But before then, I'd like to touch upon something which has affected and still affects all of us. When we were gathered at last year's AGM, the war in Europe had broken out briefly before then something most of us, I imagine, never had imagined would happen in our lifetime.

We're deeply sorry for the tragic development in Ukraine, and our thoughts go to all the people no matter where who have been affected by this tragic development. As a result, we immediately decided to suspend all new business in Russia and Belarus. And during 2022, we have left Russia. Because of the costs related to the liquidation of this, our activities in Russia and Belarus have resulted in a net loss in 2022. And with this, I'd like to touch upon some of the highlights from the previous year. We've already seen positive effects from some of the implemented changes, which were made during 2022.

During the course of all of the year, old FLSmidth mine business, that means exclusive thyssenkrupp's mine business, I'm going to call it mining technology, technology for now on to keep it simple. But that has shown a continued strong growth in both the incoming orders, revenue and profitability, which has particularly been driven by our service business.

In the fall, we implemented one of our largest acquisitions in our history, namely the acquisition of mining technologies, (inaudible) Group. With this acquisition, FLSmidth is now positioned even better than ever before to be able to offer the customers and the best complete technologies from service solutions, from mining to processing plants and as well support a more sustainable production.

Additional to the acquisition, having strengthened our position as a leading supplier for the mining industry. There are also considerable cost synergies connected with the acquisition. June 22, we have seen and we've been able to increase the size of these synergies. And we've accelerated the time it takes to achieve them. Hence, we now expect that the cost synergies will annually come to approximately DKK 560 million, and will come fully into effect according to our plans in '24 and onwards.

At the same time, very importantly, our cement business has shown a stable development and continued the positive trend with increased profitability and has now returned to a positive profitability. That has been driven also by a better service business as well as the simplification of the operating model of cement during the fourth quarter of '22. And of course, we are continuing to work on that.

As mentioned in '22, we began a big transformation journey. This is due to our business environment changing and that connection, it's been important to FLSmidth to renew itself and develop in order to sustain and expand our competitive position as well as our long-term potential earnings.

From a past, no matter its a glory, but from a past characterized by engineered services and large construction projects FLSmidth is today a major supplier of technology, products, service, which supports a more sustainable production within mining and cement industry. Our pure-play strategies within mining and cement play an important role in this.

As previously mentioned, this also involves that there are activities and services that we will, in the future, stop performing and deliver. This is something we've chosen on the basis of the planned strategic evaluation of our compliant mine product portfolio. That means including the products that we have, but also the ones that we acquired during the acquisition of mining technologies.

As a result of this, we have from the beginning of the fourth quarter of '22, divided our mining business into 2 segments: a continued strategic core business and a no longer strategic segment which we're also in good Danish call noncore activities. Half of the activities in these noncore activities coming from FLSmidth old mine business and the other part comes from mining technologies, that is what we've purchased. And over the coming 3 years, we intend to liquidate these or sell parts of them if possible. The activities we will no longer perform are in general characterized by offering limited service potential. They're actually unprofitable. They have a big implementation risk and generally, they don't contribute to our sustainability agenda. We expect the total loss on liquidation of the noncore activities to be approximately DKK 1.2 billion divided over the period from the fourth quarter of '22 until the end of '25.

This new division is a part of ensuring a clear focus and a strong implementation in our strategic core activities in mining, which is the key to increasing our long-term earnings. Additional established pure-play strategies that established the noncore activity segment. Well, during '22, we've also made many other decisions that support our transformation journey. This, amongst other involves transparency, both internally and externally, and we've made considerable progress in order to lessen the risk in our business by implementing a so-called risk quotes, a stringent risk management surrounding our product portfolio. This is a possible ensuring that the possibilities we pursue and the contracts we accept. In general, comprise lesser risk. They reduced regarding complexity and scope and they are more profitable and in compliance with our long-term strategic priorities.

Last but not least, of course, we are aware that the implementation of our transformation journey is deeply dependent on our employees and our culture. Hence, we have a large focus on ensuring that we have the right competencies as well as the right set of bad news at FLSmidth.

With this transformation journey that we're on will bring us, well, we present that officially at our Capital Market Day on the 18th of January of '23. Here, for the first time, management presented the summary of our new pure-play strategies as well as our new long-term financial goals. Our previous midterm and long-term financial targets, well, they were withdrawn in connection with publication of the annual report for 2020 when there was insecurity regarding the corona pandemic and other structural changes.

Our new long-term financial goals have a core focus on ensuring the quality of our profitability as well as reducing fluctuations in our profitability. The pure play strategy in mining is called CORE'26 and for the total year of '26, we expect that our mining business can deliver a EBITDA margin, that's before interest and taxes, et cetera, coming to 13% to 15%. In cement, we call the pure-play strategy, GREEN'26 and for the full year of '26. We expect that our cement business can deliver an EBITDA margin of approximately 8%.

Sustainability or in present day terms, the ESG agenda is and will remain an integrated part of our culture and business model. This covers both our responsibility towards our employees, society, customers and for our planet. Minerals, are necessary in the green transition and the supply of critical minerals like copper, lithium, nickel and cobalt face large pressure in order to be able to meet their increasing demand. Similarly, cement is crucial to infrastructure and renewable energy projects. As cement is still one of the most carbon-intensive industries in the world. It is crucial that the environmental impact from the cement production is reduced. To solve these crucial challenges is what drives us at FLSmidth. It's both a possibility but also our responsibility.

With our MissionZero technologies and solutions, we are uniquely positioned for significantly reducing our customers' environmental footprint and at the same time, improving their productivity and profitability. Hence, we have a target, and that's validated by what one consigns based targets that our own operating activities, what we call Scope 1 and 2 must be CO2 neutral no later than in 2030 and then our financial effect on the supply chain also call Scope 3 must be reduced by 56% compared to a starting point, which is 2019.

June 2022, we've made good progress on the majority of our own science-based targets. This includes that we have increase the share of our total purchases from suppliers that also have science-based targets. We have also significantly reduced the CO2 emissions and the use of our sold products as a consequence of less sale products that impact the climate, particularly within cement. We have also in '22 seen a small increase in the CO2 emissions from own operating activities as a consequence of increased activity and a lesser use of green energy, something we have to look at. However, it's very important that we don't look at these numbers isolatedly, based on the absolute CO2 numbers from any given year, but then we look at them over a longer period of time as there will be fluctuations from year-by-year, particularly in the CO2 emissions from the use of our sold products.

In '22, we've also seen progress in our ratings among some of the large ESG rating bureaus, which also gives us faith in us being on the right road regarding our sustainability effort. However, we do recognize that there are parts of our long-term ESG agenda where we haven't reached our target yet. And we have a way to go. Among others, this goes for diversity agenda where in 2022, we unfortunately did not see any progress compared to last year regarding the share of female managers. In spite of progress compared to last year, we also didn't reach our targets for safety, measured on the total registered injury rate in '22. The levels are not poor but we'd like to do better. So there's still a need for additional improvements in order to reach our long-term targets, both in the long run, but also up until 2030.

Let me turn towards the mining market. In spite of global macroeconomic and geopolitical unrest, the long-term demand for mineral remains strong, driven by financial growth, including a growing middle class and the green transition. In '22, the industry was challenged by volatile commodity prices, logistic limitations, inflation, which are still there, the threat of global recession, et cetera. Conversely, possibilities arose from the increasing need for a green energy transition.

The order intake in mining grew 20% organic and 34% reported organic, respectively, to a total of DKK 17.8 billion in '22, driven, among others, 37% in the growth of the service business. Mining had 7 large product orders coming to DKK 2.8 billion, up against 4 large orders in '21 coming to a value of DKK 950 million. Service orders and product orders came to 59% and 41%, respectively, of the total new orders in mining.

If you look at the revenue in mining, the organic grew 14% and 29% reported and came to DKK 15.1 billion in '22, the service and product revenue increased by 32% and 23%, respectively. The adjusted mining EBITDA increased to DKK 1.6 billion, which corresponds to an adjusted EBITDA margin of 10.6%. The adjustment includes the costs of DKK 250 million for the integration mining technologies and a loss of DKK 200 million related to the liquidation of activities in Russia. When you include these costs, the EBITDA margin for mining in 2022 came to 7.6%.

Like in most other industries, the industry has had to navigate through the macroeconomic insecurities and geopolitical unrest in 2022. In the short term, the cement industry is expected to a lager degree be affected by the macroeconomic fluctuations than the mining industry, the high energy prices, the inflation pressure has also contributed to an increased focus on productivity and sustainability, among the cement producers. In the long term, we see good possibilities, particularly driven by the necessary green translation of the cement production.

The order intake in cement increased by 5% organic and 11% reported to DKK 6.6 billion in '22 as a consequence of better market conditions compared to the previous year. In '22, we included one large product order at a value of more than DKK 400 million, up against 2 large product orders in '21 at a joint value of DKK 400 million. Service and product orders came to constitute 57% and 43%, respectively, of the total new orders in cement in '22.

The revenue increased by 2% organic and 7% reported at DKK 6.3 billion, primarily driven by a 12% growth in the service business and the product revenue increased by 1%. But also importantly, cement EBITDA increased to DKK 204 million positive compared to the year before, corresponding to an EBITDA margin at 3.3%. That is a significant improvement compared to '21, where cement was unprofitable and that reflects an improved service business and a simplification of cement operating model during the course of the fourth quarter.

Let me just look at noncore activities and how they develop in 2022. The part of the business that we wish to liquidate. In the last quarter of '22, noncore activities had a revenue of DKK 503 million and a loss of DKK 407 million, out of which DKK 270 million are related to individual shutdown costs. This was in line with our expectations and what we had told the share market.

By the end of '22, noncore activities had a remaining order backlog of DKK 2.9 billion, up against beginning order backlog of DKK 3.6 billion as noncore activities segment was established back by the end of the third quarter of '22. And we add all of that together and look at the consolidated financial performance in '22, then the results in both mining, cement is primarily driven by our service business where we delivered an improved result compared to the year before.

The new orders received increased 16% organic and 28% reported. As a consequence of better market conditions compared to '21 and the new orders received in service alone and let me put a line under that increase by 30%. The product order or new orders received within products increased by 26%. Book-to-bill for the year was 130%. In spite of the shutting down of the Russian activities in '22, revenue increased organic by 11% and 24% reported, which is mainly driven by the service business in mining in '22. Service made up 59% of the revenue and product 41%. The gross result increased by 21%, and the adjusted EBITDA margin for '22 came to 6.4%. When you include the previously mentioned DKK 452 million those for integration costs for the acquisition and -- as well as the liquidation in Russia, the reported EBITDA margin comes to 4.3%.

In spite of the significant cost to liquidate our activities in Russia and the cost related to integration mine technologies, we delivered a positive financial flow on the operation coming to almost DKK 968 million. We have a constant focus, as I say -- when I say we, it's management particularly, we have a constant focus on financial flow in order to ensure a healthy balance in our net working capital and net debt.

Our financial gearing increased from being minus 0.6x to 0.6x as a consequence of the acquisition mine technologies, which is expected. The financial gearing is still lower than the group's target, which is a max of 2 times the net interest-bearing debt compared to the EBITDA. The Board suggests that a dividend of DKK 3 per share is paid out which comes to a total dividend amount of DKK 173 million and a dividend yield of 1.2%. And this corresponds to a payout ratio of 49%, which is completely aligned with our targets, which is a payout of between 30% to 50% of the net profit.

Let me look forward. We expect that the market growth within the mining industry in '23 will remain practically stable compared to the market in '22. Hence, we expect revenue in mining coming to between DKK 16 billion and DKK 17 billion where mining technologies are expected to contribute with less than DKK 3 billion to the revenue in '23. We expect to adjust the mining EBITDA in the interval of 9% to 10%, which includes an expected diluting effect on the mining technologies at approximately 2% for '23. But that number does not include the integration costs of DKK 550 million for all of '23.

In cement, in the long term, we expect that the cement industry will still be marked by old capacity. And that the potential recession, and that means how much building would be set into motion will expectedly have a negative effect on market demand. We expect a revenue of DKK 6 billion to DKK 6.5 billion in '23. That means a flat development up against '22 and EBITDA margin which is slightly better in the interval between 4% to 5%. That progress reflects an increase in cement's profitability, which reflects the positive effect of the strategic initiatives that I mentioned from '22.

The expectation to noncore activities in '23 reflect our work liquidating the remaining order backlog as well as a general nonprofitable nature of the activities in the segment. Hence, we expect a revenue of between DKK 0.8 billion and DKK 1 billion and an operational loss of between DKK 250 million to DKK 350 million in '23. As a consequence of all this, we expect a revenue of DKK 23 billion to DKK 24.5 billion and an adjusted EBITDA margin of 6% to 7% for the whole group in '23. If we include the integration costs in mining coming to DKK 550, we expect 4% to 5% in the EBITDA margin. That's what we communicated when we sent out our annual report just recently.

And for good order, as always, I must add that profit forecast are always connected with insecurity as a consequence of global supply conditions, potential recession and geopolitical unrest that has also been said. As recommended by the committee on corporate governance and with reference to the publicized report, I'd like to go over and make some remarks to the remuneration of the Board and management.

Let me tell you that compared to '22, there have been no deviations regarding the general guidelines for remuneration which have been approved by the annual meeting. The connected remuneration for the group executive management, which consists of the CEO and the CFO was DKK 25.8 million in '22 up against DKK 39 million in '21. In '29, it was high because of the severance package agreed with the former CEO and low incentive payments. Payout are based on -- the target is based on reaching or us reaching the financial KPIs and individual targets in '22. The Board did not receive any payout for the long-term incentive program for the performance periods of 2019 until '21. And the Board received a total remuneration of DKK 6.6 million in '22, against DKK 6.5 million in '21.

The Board proposes that the fees for the Board of Directors for '23 remains unchanged. In connection of the annual report for '22 and like in previous years, the Board has decided to award restricted shares to a limited number of persons, including management and key employees in the long-term incentive program, the targets for '23, which cover the period from '23 to '25 would be the same as for the program for '22, which covers the vesting period from '22 to '24. So vesting and grounding will be subject to fulfillment on the targets for EBITDA margin, the total return for shareholders as well as the KPI related to sustainability.

Furthermore, the Board annually does a self-assessment in order to assess the individual members' contribution, commitment and competencies and also our ability to cooperate. As Chair, I'm responsible for carrying out the assessment. I believe that we have a transparent process. And after a good and open discussion. We've identified some matters that we can most likely better, and we have determined our priorities for the coming years board work.

But let me also add that the general conclusions of the Board Assessment in '22 was satisfactory without the big issues or matters. I'm reaching the end. In 2022, we, at FLSmidth celebrated our 140 year anniversary. Even though many things have changed since 1882, our passion to discover and innovate. Our commitment to all our customers and most importantly, the dedication talent of our employees have been the core of everything we have achieved since day 1. FLSmidth is on an interesting journey. We recognize the current macroeconomic insecurities and geopolitical unrest that we do believe but these challenges are manageable and are compensated for significantly by our fundamental long-term growth possibilities driven by, I've said it many times, green transition, financial growth and specific industry challenges within both the mining and cement industries.

In the past year, it's been crucial to us to renew ourselves and at the same time, give a clear strategic direction and thereby build a foundation for increased trust. Focus is now on implementation. And we have already come a long way in '22.

In '23, we look forward to even more progress when we continue driving our transformation journey and implementing our pure-play strategies. I'm certain that we have the right team, the right strategies they're in place. And together, we will deliver even larger results onwards.

In closing, of course, I'd like to thank both the Board and -- management Executive Committee and the Board for an open and good cooperation over the past year. I'd also like to thank our shareholders for the support and also take the opportunity to say welcome to new major investors that we have got in the past year. Welcome to FLSmidth. I'd also like to send a special thanks to our outgoing Board member Rob Smith, who is not running for reelection. Since 2016, Rob, has provided a dedicated and valuable effort for the company, among others, as the Chair of our Technology Committee. However, the largest thank you goes to all of our employees who are yet again shown a large ability to adapt in an uncertain business environment. We look forward to continuing the journey with you over the course of '23. I thank you for your attention.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Now you have the chance to make -- to ask questions and comments. So as I mentioned before, there are 3 people who have already asked for the floor. I'll ask those 3 people to come forward and then you can make these comments. And then the Chair of the Board can ask the questions first, and then he can comment on these together. And the first one is Leif Gundtoft, the Chairman of Staff Association and then presentative of LD, Mr. (inaudible).

LEIF GUNDTOFT, EMPLOYEE-ELECTED MEMBER, FLSMIDTH & CO. A/S: So thank you for giving me the floor. Dear colleagues, dear shareholders, dear Board and dear Chair, my name is Leif Gundtoft and it's my privilege and I'm speaking on behalf of the Staff Association. One year ago, very few of us had expected that we will still have a war in Ukraine. The horrifying images that we see from there that makes -- and it also makes very difficult for us to imagine this is tremendous impact that this conflict has to our world. And this has also had a huge impact on people that we can collaborate with and whom we allowed to collaborate with. So we had to tell goodbye to a number of good colleagues in Russia and other countries. So I'm happy that you should not talk about corona at this AGM, and we can start getting used to an everyday life, where we can meet with customers even though that we still have many meetings on teams.

Travels and meeting with customers all over the world contributes to emphasizing the fact that FLS is a global enterprise and employees, we are proud to be working for FLS. Last September, CKS Mining became part of FLSmidth. After very few honeymoon -- a short honeymoon, we decided to establish a division called non-collectivities, which intended not to be part of the future journey of FLS. This might be a rude awakening for our German colleagues and also for us and our former colleagues at FLS.

The management of cement activities has decided on a pure-play model, so both segments will now report results as independent business units. So this gives segments a more autonomy relative to the size of the organization and composition. So this change means that you'll give all products to services and also the spare and working parts, and this will value based on the capital projects that fit into the future focus of the company. This means that we have significant changes to the structure of cement both in Denmark and globally.

So unfortunately, we'll have to tell goodbye to a number of dedicated colleagues who have worked for FLS for more than 25 years. And I want to thank good and loyal colleagues for -- that worked for many years. Changes might be difficult and frustrating but I find that we are in a good -- on the right way and we look forward to seeing a stronger and best FLS cement. And I find that we can always see some green strategy solutions. We are already working on this in the long term or we already have in the market. They will become an essential part of solution to the greenhouse gas issues that we have at world level.

When our colleagues at mining will have a doubt at the organization. I'm sure that they will also have an efficient and profitable business area but also ensure that this journey will be difficult for many. We have seen a year with inflation it reminds me of the time when I was child, it was long time ago. But despite this situation, we're still doing well on the economy side, even though that it was predicted that the recession is waiting just around the corner. We still see a job -- an active job market. A lot happens around the world, and we also in terms of employment and pay conditions. And for the management of FLS, it's necessary to make an extra effort to attract and retain good employees.

As employees, we're having a dialogue with management about this. And we look into many of these parameters that contribute to making FLS to a good and attractive working place. It's essential for our self perception and motivation. But we can now see that we are contributing actively in many and interesting activities, which may contribute to making our solutions for our customers greener and more environmental friendly, both within cement and mining which are also our GREEN'26. I don't know what to say in Danish or English and also core CORE'26 programs.

FLS is a Danish company. We are proud and strong additions. In addition to the technical innovation and the sanction that has characterized FLS for many years, we also have decency as a very significant element of our self perception and values. We are expected to behave both as employees as a company as a part of this world and as surrounding us. We do this by working together by respecting differences and be abreast of changes both socially, financially and technical-wise. And we happen to see that FLS works actively in these areas. It's still difficult to predict as to which way the world intends to go in future.

But the new courageous initiative, FLS has shown that the company can adapt to changes with optimism, creativity and conviction. It bears witness to a strong culture as the mainstay and my dedicated and clever colleagues support to the challenges that we're facing. We can be very proud about that. So on behalf of the employees, I wish FLSmidth is strong, sustainable and not least, a prosperous year. Thank you so much.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thank you, Leif Gundtoft. And as I mentioned, I would let the first 3 speakers come to the stage before I will let the Chair replies to this from the AkademikerPension. (inaudible).

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you for the Chair of the Board for his presentation. My name is [Tal Sperl], I'm speaking on behalf of LD and the AkademikerPension. So once another year has passed with -- and in the situation for uncertainty the war in Ukraine continues, and it was not as short as we expected. On the contrary, we have seen huge tragedy, inflation and historical pressure on values or value chains. Many companies have cut links to Russia, most of the companies are also in Russia still. It's a difficult time to work and it's difficult to separate business from politics.

Together with this geopolitical uncertainty, you have started a transforming journey. The strategic focus has to be sharpened. Well, also you have to see a successful integration with TK Mining. We have many balls playing at the same time and the risk elements are abundant. We will see the results in the performance over the next quarters and years. And we hope that it will be better than historical numbers. You had a good start. And as you know, that's always halfway through but still less a long way to go, and we look forward to following further developments and also initiatives that we have taken throughout the organization.

I'm also here to motivate the that proposal made by LD and AkademikerPension. This proposal intends to support FLS in expanding the communication relating to respect human rights and labor rights. We also suggest that FLS makes more details public about the challenges that FLS meet in the market when do they encounter human rights challenges, we've had a good dialogue with the Board of Directors of this proposal, and the Board of Directors has decided to support our proposal. We are thankful because we also see this as a sign that the Board takes this seriously and also wants to propose to help OR support this in public. So there's no doubt that the FSD is one of the best in the sector. But we still know that the reporting on human rights is not exactly where it should be, but that also applies to most other major companies. As long-term investors, we want to support the long-term business success of FLS with this proposal.

And in this situation, I want to mention that we trust that FLS also works internally with human rights and also those that might impact the business. So our proposal is only a way to strengthen public communication about these subjects. And we're sure that this will profit the company in the long term. Focus on human rights issues will only become more relevant in the future increasing geopolitical issues because of the nation in Ukraine -- Russia puts great pressure on our global value chains. And also, we focus on human right issue all over the world. This cannot prevent us from -- prevent the company from being affected by this, especially when they work in sectors like mining, which is a high-risk area of human rights violations.

But it is also essential to the green transition. Environmental legislation is also coming from the EU. So it's diligence initiative to strengthen this area already now. So this is also where we see that when FLS takes a lead when they make available their documentation of their efforts public because by showing their way to best practice in the -- to the market, they will take a competitive lead, we believe. This will also benefit investors and also the world around us and invest and also the company. So we will suggest that the other shareholders will support our proposal as also the Board of Directors has done.

And we look forward to seeing how this stronger communication will develop and finally have an issue about the remuneration report because we often talk about this at AGMs. For AkademikerPension and LD, it's essential that report on remuneration is sufficient so that we can assess the connection between results and payments. Otherwise, reporting is not as sufficient as we could expect -- could want.

Unfortunately, many companies do not have sufficient transparency and we would also suggest that's FLS make that remuneration report works transparent, especially in KPIs and peers. And we -- versus against the remuneration reports in more than half of our companies so FLS is not alone. But otherwise, we suggest our support what FLS is doing. Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: And I'll now pass the floor to [Jonas Dramsgaard] from ATP and then the Chair of the Board will have a floor. And then afterwards, I'll ask whether anybody else wants the floor.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Being a Sweden, understanding Danish very well, but not speaking that they will. So I agreed with Jannick and his team that's slow in English. Thank you for the floor, and my name is [Jonas Dramsgaard] representing ATP. And thank you to the Chairman for the reports and presentation of the results for 2022. So 2022 has been an eventful year for FLS. Closing of the TK Mining deal, presentation of the new strategy at the recent Capital Markets Day. And although to be fair, it kickstarted during the last year. All this in a context of huge macroeconomic uncertainty and the war in Ukraine.

We fully support the new strategy and its pure-play approach in our view, representing a trustworthy and logic path towards profitable growth with simplification and derisking of operations as key principles. When fully implemented, it is nothing else than a transformation of the way you run the business. Last year, I think it was Claus, who was standing here and emphasized that it was really important with being transparent post to the closing of the TK mining deal. And we understand that there is a lot of work to be done. Integration of this new acquisition and on top of that, a completely new corporate strategy. But we are confident that you are on the right track, not least with the progress already achieved and the transparency concerning your route forward, you delivered at the Capital Markets Day in January.

And we also noticed the upgraded cost synergies and the more speedy realization of these. With the risk of repeating what Claus said last year, we cannot stress enough the importance of your continued work with your MissionZero strategy. And we welcome the focus you have on the commitment to science-based targets throughout your supply chain. Both mining and cement, as we all know, are CO2 intensive industries, which is why it is important to continuously work towards reducing emissions.

Gender diversity is a challenge for FLS, and we know it has been a focus area for the past couple of years. And we are pleased to see the progress made on the share of women employees in the total workforce. However, when looking at the share of women managers in FLS, things appears to be moving slower. And the target for 2022 was not met and looking from the outside, achieving the 2030 target of 25% women managers seems a little bit more difficult to achieve. So on that note, the question for the management, are you still confident that you will be able to achieve your 2030 target for women managers? And would you be able to elaborate on potential new initiatives or processes that will enable you to achieve this. So with these words, I would like to wish FLS and the employees all the best with the work ahead in 2023.

Thank you for the attention.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I'll now pass the floor to the Chair of the Board, so he can comment on those 3 submissions.

TOM KNUTZEN: First, Leif Gundtoft with whom we have a good collaboration on the Board because you also have an employee representative on the board. I want to thank you for your messages. We have to say goodbye to people who have served the company for many years, and they did deserve respects. I also want to thank you for a good and constructive dialogue also when we see changes because we see changes in all aspects of life. And I find that employees and colleagues of FLS and also you as representatives of your colleagues.

When you make a constructive contribution to this process, especially we have this underlying tone of willingness to change and also decent ways of doing it. So I just want to thank you for this contribution, and let us continue the journey that we had done. Thanks you Gundtoft. To (inaudible) from LD and AkademikerPension. It is so that we support the proposal they've made, but I wanted to add something even though that the proposal is essential because it is very fruitful to have this constructive dialogue, namely a discussion as to where is the world heading mainly what you're going to focus on, and also it is so that ESG agenda is extremely wide. And when you look at how it has developed over the past 5, 10, 15 years, I believe it is difficult to have a look at what you would -- we should have been working at today when we look ahead in those days.

So as a company, you need inspiration, you need a dialogue, and I want to thank your contribution to suggest that we're going to strengthen our public communication about human rights. I know all of us focus on this on our daily work, but we could be more transparent in this work on this as our reporting on ESG develops. And also -- I also noted your request for more information about KPIs and bonus for our future work.

And finally, to [Jonas Dramsgaard] from ATP, you're representing a major vote in this world of owners and investors. And I'm happy that you support this transformation and this journey that we're having and taking by FLS. So I will not repeat what you said already, to thank you for saying so. And also once emphasize, once more that we are so committed to complete this transformation journey that we have started. And I have trust in the fact that the current management will be able to lead us to the end. Then subject about gender diversity. I think it will hardly be saying too much by saying that we discussed this at all board meetings. This is not an excuse, but it is not so that it is deliberate that we've -- where we are now. It doesn't mean that we are not ambitious.

And today, it is not so that we have a wish to change our ambition about reaching a target of 25% women managers in 2030. We only have a little more than 15% today. So that was also the case one year ago, so we haven't improved. Management has started a number of initiatives, I want to mention 4 -- or 3, we start the program that we call it aspiring leaders program. That's a program for those who want to aspire for being managers, and we focus on individual contributions and those who want to be managers and want to focus especially on promoting even more women to become attracted by taking a management role in the future.

At a global level, we have started adversity equity and inclusion program is also a council said -- and this council is going to have a more focus on ownership and diversity, and this council comprises employees across the organization to discuss how do we do this? It's a collective task. It doesn't come just from top to down. We also had to include employees so that we can inspire especially women to go for management positions.

And also, we are looking for more relevant candidates and about 30% of those will recruit from managerial positions. So we hope that also over time, this will also lead us in the right direction. I cannot guarantee anything, but what I can promise is that the efforts and the will to do something with this agenda, we have that. Thank you so much.

Questions and Answers

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: And we have somebody put up their hand down here. Please come up here and start by stating your name.

LARS H. NIELSEN: My name is Lars H. Nielsen. Since 2011, I've written critically about increased top wages on Twitter. The Danish Parliament has changed the tax level for top management in Denmark. The question is, has the Board discussed the -- of increasing wages, which have reached DKK 7.7 million, the CEO of FLSmidth, Mikko Keto, wage is DKK 16.7 million and you're not allowed to deduct taxes of more than DKK 7.7 million. How much has increased after that law was implemented. How much does it cost in extra costs for payment?

And on the Danish Parliament home page, you can see distal and you can see that it's been approved. Does FLSmidth have more employees with a salary of over DKK 7.7 million. And if so, what is the total salary cost for the company? Parliament has set a moral law -- more room for how large wages or salary should be in order to not create polarization and inequality in Danish society. FLSmidth, or to take the consequence of this law by building in these numbers in the annual report. And we should like to see the calculations of the tax level for top salaries. And could you please take this down for the minutes. Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Yes, we'll take down the main contents of what was said and the response to the minutes. I'd like for the Chair to respond to these very concrete questions.

TOM KNUTZEN: To Lars Nielsen, first, I'd like to thank you for your statement and I can't do the calculations in my head because I don't have a concrete number and I don't -- I'm not able to do calculations in my head, but the company tax in Denmark is 22% in the concrete example. There was a compensation for DKK 16.7 million from Mikko Keto. So there is a limit of DKK 9.9 million. So I think that -- it comes to last year, DKK 1.8 million, give or take. I don't know if we should say what has been said, with a smile. Luckily, we only have one CEO in this business, and there is a certain hierarchy.

We've become very transparent regarding compensation in general compared to previously. And of course, there will be certain people in top management who are at the salary level, when I look at our CFO and additional members. So he's not the only one, but a rough estimate would well. It can't be over DKK 6 million, DKK 8 million, DKK 10 million in total. Please take that as an indicative level that would be my attempt giving you a concrete answer.

The other thing is that on the board, we have a compensation committee who works with compensation in general. What should the structure be between a base wage and short-term in sentiments and long term. So regarding the taxation level on salaries in Denmark, well, we compete in a global industry. The cement business is global. Mining is global, cement is global, and it's important to us that we have the correct management right competencies. And therefore, I can also say that we have top management consisting of a long line of nationalities, and they have moved to Denmark, they work yet and if the consequence there is -- that because of tax regulations in Denmark and they differ in -- for each country, must pay more compared to early in order to have the right competencies. Well, then we, as a board and do handle the shareholders' interests. Well, we have to take that not without a critical attitude towards it, but we also have to make critical decisions. So that's part one.

Second part of my response, we are aware this and we know that the Board is working on this or we prioritize making the correct decisions for the company, and that goes for all stakeholders on their behalf and also the shareholders. Would anybody else like to take the floor? That's not the case.

Then I'd like to summarize where we are on the agenda. The first item was the Board of Directors report. There's no vote on that and when nobody wishes to take the floor, then it has been accepted. The second item was the presentation of the annual report. I haven't noted any other speakers in that regard. So I will consider that approved.

The next item, Item #3, approval of the Board of Directors' fees. There are 2 items there. The first one is the final approval of fees for '22, that is last year. And last year, it was preliminarily approved based on -- a base fee of DKK 450,000 as described. And we propose that it is finally adopted this year. If there are no remarks, it will be approved. And as the Chair said, the board suggests that this is unaltered for '23. So that is probably also dramatical and can be considered as being approved.

The fourth item is distribution profits or covering and losses. And this proposal is a dividend of DKK 3 per share. And I take it that everybody is interested in that. So let's consider that as approved.

The fifth item is presentation of the remuneration report for an advisory note, the low demands that there must be a separate remuneration report, and there must be an advisory vote. So if it is not adopted well then next year, the Board has to explain how it's taken suggested into consideration, but it has already been adopted on the basis of the votes received. So I also consider that has been approved.

The sixth item is election of members of the Board of Directors. And here, it appears from the articles of association that there must be at least 5 members and currently, there are 6. And as we already heard, Rob Smith is not seeking the election for the Board of Directors, but there's a proposal reelection of Tom Knutzen, Mads Nipper, Anne Louise Eberhard, Gillian Dawn Winckler and Thrasyvoulos Moraitis. And there's a proposal of election of Daniel Reimann, who is present, could you please stand up and show your face.

And currently, there are no other candidates and that would also be difficult based on the votes cast. I'd like to congratulate you on reelection and being elected additional to that. I can inform you that there are also employee elected members of the Board, and it's Mr. (inaudible) and Leif Gundtoft, who are members of the Board.

The next item is Item #7, election of company auditor, and we propose reelection of Ernst & Young and as stated, that is the proposal from the Audit Committee, and they have not been affected by third parties in this proposal. There are rarely other candidates regarding this item, so I can also conclude that you've been reelected, good luck in coming year.

And then we have Item #8, 8.1 amendment of the articles. One can give authorization to issue shares, and that's in the interest of everyone in most cases, and it can be extended for 1 year. It only runs out on the 29th of March or 28. So the proposal is that we change 2 years in the authorization given that it's not controversial. So I think I can conclude that it has been adopted with 2/3 majority. And almost all -- largely in companies, would like to ask operation to purchase their own shares up to -- you can never at any given time, own more than 10%, no matter what you may have to begin with. And it cannot deviate from the exchange rate on the stock exchange by more than 10%. Are there any questions? You're standing at Kjeld Beyer.

So I also take that we have notified you on this, and then we have Item #9, which is a shareholder proposal from AkademikerPension and LD Funde, which has already been motivated by AkademikerPension and commenced on by the Chair. The shareholder proposals that this should be communication with the Board of Directors regarding human rights and labor rights in accordance with the United Nations guiding principles on business and human rights and the content of the proposal have been described in the notice to convene.

Are there any questions for that? No. Then I also consider that as being approved.

That brings us to any other business. Item #10 here. You can -- been given the chance to speak, but you can't decide anything.

KJELD BEYER: My name is Kjeld Beyer. And as you say, I normally say (inaudible) this website. What I want to say today is that initially, you said we don't need to have any votes because we have already proxies. That seems very unintegrated to me because that means that you gets this income from the other shareholders that might not have that many shares. It might be sure that they wanted to vote against some of these proposals, but this is a strike from the beginning because you told already that it doesn't matter. And this is what we see in societies today that nobody listens to us.

Now you complaining about all the things that you have to close down due to the Russians. But have we ever been asked whether we want to go to war, it is something that the Prime Minister does because she sends weapons to the war, but we cannot have nurses for our hospitals. There's something wrong with our democracy for the time being. And I also believe that people don't realize that we experienced so much in censorship Denmark. We've heard a lot about the pandemic of -- the COVID pandemic and football, but we don't hear much about the Russian leader because he has tried to remove -- sorry, Ukraine has had censorship in 2014, and the war in Ukraine is because Russians living in Ukraine have asked Russia for help. So we are on the wagon for World Economic Forum. Many people don't know what is World Economic Forum, but this forum has huge impact on what happens at world level. Also MPs from Denmark, they also go there and get medicated by this forum.

It is a very bad development and the World Economic Forum support the war in Ukraine because they have interest in that country. I think you should know it. And the last thing I want to mention is that we see a lot of human trafficking and crime at open sea, but that also relates both to the UN, WHO and Red Cross. We've been told, you should know that things are happening that we don't like and these cannot -- this is outside the scope of democracy. Thank you for allowing me to take the floor.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I will pass the floor to the Chair or technically from my position as the Chair of this meeting. I will mention that this year about that, we have submitted those beforehand that is seen by most people as an expression of democratic development because those shareholders who cannot be present, they can vote beforehand. Just by telling the Board that they can just vote on their behalf, but they can say, yes or no whether they vote in favor of an item. You see actually that most listed companies, they have so many proxies that they can -- most proposals we adopted, but that does not prevent you from attending the AGM so that you can make yourself input. I actually find that the company is very transparent by telling what has been adopted beforehand. So we don't need to have to take a vote in case it has already been decided beforehand.

I'll pass the floor to the Chair who can comment.

TOM KNUTZEN: Well, thank you, Kjeld Beyer. I want to focus on one issue, namely that my job as the Chair of the Board of FLS and representative of the shareholders. I need to focus on the agenda pursued by FLS and not the major political agendas. So I don't focus on many of the elements that you mentioned.

But one thing I want to mention. As regards to democracy, to me, it is essential at FLS that we have an AGM. You can also follow this externally. And you can also be allowed to take the floor so that you can express all your views as to what the company is doing. I've also told the other people who have taken the floor that we appreciate the dialogue because that we believe that dialogue would contribute to a valuable impact for the company. So thank you, Kjeld Beyer, for your contribution as well.

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: So this is any other business -- any other, who wants to take the floor? It's the last chance. If that's not the case, I will say formally, thank you for this year and pass the floor to the Chair of the Board. So that he can end this year's AGM.

TOM KNUTZEN: Thank you so much. I want to thank the AGM participants and for the submission you have made and for working -- doing here in the proper order and also to the Chair of this meeting for leading us through. So maybe we could see again -- meet again next year in the same room. So thank you for this event. Thank you for today. And use time after the AGM to talk to each other, and I look forward to complete the transformation phase that we've started both on the Board and also with our employees. So thank you for today, and have a safe journey home.

[Statements in English on this transcript were spoken by an interpreter present on the live call.]

[Refinitiv, an LSEG business, reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 FNDW000020230330ej3t005mt


11 Picks to Play a Resurgent Energy Sector, From Our Roundtable Experts -- Barrons.com
By Avi Salzman
12188 字
2023 年 5 月 19 日 05:30 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2023, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
It has been decades since energy took on such a central role in global affairs. Oil and gas stocks soared last year as the war in Ukraine upended the market. Now, commodity prices are tumbling again, the stocks are wobbling, and an even bigger change -- a global transition to clean energy -- appears to be around the corner.

To understand how all these dynamics will play out in the coming years, Barron's convened a roundtable of energy experts that met May 9 on Zoom. The group included Helima Croft, head of global commodity strategy and Middle East and North Africa research at RBC Capital Markets; Dan Pickering, founder and chief investment officer at Pickering Energy Partners; Christyan Malek, global head of energy strategy and head of Europe, the Middle East, and Africa oil and gas equity research at J.P. Morgan; and Karim Fawaz, director of financial and capital markets at S&P Global Commodity Insights.

An edited version of the conversation follows.

Barron's: Everything seemed lined up for oil prices to rise after OPEC said last month that it would cut production. Yet, Brent crude, the global benchmark, is still $75 a barrel, and could be heading lower. Let's begin with your oil-price targets for the end of 2023.

Karim Fawaz: A lot of people thought we had escaped the macro headwinds back in April, when OPEC [the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries] initiated voluntary production cuts. Clearly, that hasn't been the case so far. There is still a lot of macro pressure. It is difficult to predict what will happen next month at the OPEC meeting, but we still see sequential demand growth between now and August of around three million barrels a day.

At the same time, you're going to see another million barrels a day of supply come off the market because of OPEC production suspensions as the cuts go into effect. It's very difficult to see a path where energy-market fundamentals don't tighten significantly in the next two quarters, so we remain relatively constructive on prices. We still see Brent prices averaging $92 a barrel in the third quarter, and easing slightly into the end of the year to the mid- to high-$80s.

Dan, what is your price target for crude?

Dan Pickering: Forecasting is notoriously difficult, but to start with the long term, I'm pretty bullish on the next three to five years. I've got an $80 number for West Texas Intermediate [the U.S. benchmark for oil] as an average over that period. I expect things to improve over the remainder of this year, so $75 to $85 WTI at year end is my near-term target. Supply is constrained but demand is the wild card. The market is treating oil as a risk-off or risk-on asset. We should expect volatility, and I'm 100% convinced I'll be wrong on that year-end price number.

Helima, what are your thoughts?

Helima Croft: I echo a lot of what was said. Oil really struggled with this sort of sum-of-all-fears worry. OPEC has shown that they are willing to midwife a recovery. It looks like they're meeting in person in June, which seems a signal that they are willing to do more. There are also other geopolitical factors that continue to be important in the market, but might not be priced in. We still have a pipeline offline in Iraq, with no signs of an imminent restart. The Iran issue remains pretty important for the back half of the year. Right now, oil struggles when everyone focuses on the broader macroeconomic story. The fundamentals should come into the driver's seat at some point in the back half of the year.

So, do you see prices moving higher or lower?

Croft: They could go lower because of macro concerns. But we see a path toward a $90 price environment, based on the fundamentals. And again, there are some wild cards out there on the geopolitical side that aren't even factored in when we talk about $90.

Christyan, let's hear from you.

Christyan Malek: We were bearish from 2013 to 2020. We turned formally bullish on the long term in our supercycle thesis in the spring of 2020, which was a difficult time, for obvious reasons. [A commodity supercycle is a period of sustained expansion, usually characterized by high prices.] Having said that, we have put the supercycle thesis on hold this year, and tend to think that this year is a bit of a write-off for energy. We turned bearish on energy in December of last year, both on the asset class and the commodities. It will be a difficult first half of the year. The rest of the year is highly dependent on the recession outlook. I expect that energy prices will be rangebound through the end of the year. Demand is like a sword hanging over the market.

By rangebound, do you mean Brent will stay in the high-$70s?

Malek: Yes. We have talked about the worst-case scenario being around $60 a barrel this year. OPEC stepped in to protect $60 oil, not $80 [as some other analysts have said]. We can expect more OPEC intervention. In other words, they're not trying to create a higher-price scenario, but protect a really bad scenario from playing out. It's not about trying to stoke the price at the expense of the consumer. If anything, it is protecting investment today to protect the consumer in years to come. Without that investment today, we could see severe energy inflation in the future. We have talked about $200 oil by 2025 as an upside scenario, with $80 being a long-run forecast for Brent.

We are less than a month from another OPEC meeting. OPEC is now in an alliance with Russia, with serious geopolitical implications. Helima, what do you expect to happen?

Croft: It's really about market management. One of the key drivers for Saudi Arabia is to deliver on Vision 2030, its massive infrastructure and job-creation program. It grounds a lot of the country's oil policy. The White House didn't see an OPEC cut coming in October. Because it happened right before the midterm election, everything was seen through the prism of Washington politics, when in fact the Saudis were really trying to put in a circuit breaker to stop oil from falling quickly. I don't see that the Saudis are going to end their relationship with Russia in terms of market management. If oil is in its current price range or potentially even lower at the OPEC meeting next month, then OPEC is prepared to take additional action. They believe they have to support the market until more fundamental factors reassert themselves.

Speaking of Russia, it has been more than a year since the invasion of Ukraine, and the war is still going on. Russian oil is still on the market; it's just moving in different directions. What does this mean for oil and natural gas longer term?

Croft: The Biden administration was clear from the start of the war: It was going to sanction everything, but wanted to keep Russian energy flowing. It was deeply concerned about maintaining popular support for the war in an energy crisis. Primarily, the goal of price caps on Russian oil was to blunt the impact of the European Union's package of sanctions, particularly the ban on oil services to move Russian barrels to third-party markets. That Russian oil is still going in large quantities to India and China was the key objective of price caps.

The Russians themselves decided to take their natural gas off the market. The question is: Has Europe built sufficient supply to get through winter? There is a lot of optimism in EU countries that they have built sufficient stockpiles to get through next winter, and the focus now is on 2024. But the real question is: Has Russia played its last card? Could we potentially see [energy] infrastructure attacks linked to Russia?

What do you think, Karim?

Fawaz: I mostly agree with Helima. The U.S. administration's objective coming into the fall was fairly clear. It was safeguarding oil flows in a way that was destructive to Russian revenue. That has happened, to a large extent, partly because prices have been low enough that the majority of oil exports from Russia have been de facto trading below the price cap. A large share of Russia's fleet has been able to access Western services. What's more interesting to think about is, if prices move higher in the second half of the year, as we expect, and oil suddenly starts to trade near or above the price cap, will the EU start looking to enforce it more stringently?

The commodity that has been inspiring the most debate lately is natural gas, which soared to $9 per million British thermal units last year and crashed to $2 this year. Meanwhile, gas-related stocks haven't fallen as much as the commodity. We're in a relatively lengthy period with a lot of supply and, at least in the U.S., not a ton of export capacity for liquefied natural gas to sell that supply elsewhere. Where do prices for natural gas and the stocks go next, Dan?

Pickering: The siren call of new LNG export capacity in 2025 and 2026 is keeping the market pretty bullish on gas. A couple of LNG projects are coming online in 2025 and '26, so U.S. producers will be able to export more of their product overseas. Despite low prices, you're seeing a reluctance by the industry to slow production activity because no one wants to be behind the curve when the market, in theory, tightens up in late 2025. We're in a Catch-22; the long term is bullish, the short term is bearish. Winter is always a wild card, but no one is expecting much out of natural-gas pricing in the near term. The risk is if LNG exports slip or new projects take longer to build. Then gas will have another leg down in sentiment.

Are you cautious on the stocks of gas-focused producers?

19 May 2023 01:30 ET 11 Picks to Play a Resurgent Energy Sector, From -2-

Pickering: The stocks have fallen. Antero Resources [ticker: AR] has been cut in half. It is starting to look interesting. The question is: What's the catalyst for the stock to work, particularly relative to the oil names? Gas is sort of a no man's land from a stock perspective. The stocks aren't particularly expensive. The companies have their balance sheets in order. There isn't financial distress. I'd rather play oil than gas from a stock market perspective, both the commodity and the companies that produce it. Really, these are 2025 stories, which means you probably get paid next year, not this year.

Christyan, you have written that the world isn't investing enough in energy. But there seems to be plenty of natural gas.

Malek: There is so much additional gas coming online in the next few years. We see a race to the downside in gas. If anything, gas feels like it's on a downward trend with fake highs because so much additional supply is coming online. China is switching a lot of its usage into coal, with less regard for net-zero emissions than it used to have. The extra production coming through in 2025 and '26, whether from Qatar, the U.S., or potentially the Saudis, means having too much gas supply just when demand isn't keeping up.

The reverse is true for oil. Remember the airports last year? You had a 10-minute queue just to get a coffee in Terminal 2 at Heathrow. That was because of very strong travel demand. Oil also carried a risk premium, too, which was a function of the concern around a lack of supply coming from Russia, which ultimately didn't play out. OPEC had to add production to deal with the increase in demand, but also that risk premium. Now we're seeing a mean reversion, or a correction in terms of how much production we need from OPEC to normalize demand. That is true in the West as we move past a partial lockdown and into a potential recession, and in China as we get past lockdown into whatever things look like after Covid.

Just what are you expecting?

Malek: Over the next 12 to 18 months, we're going to progress through this choppy demand outlook as we find our feet, post-Covid. Demand has been [a more important issue than supply this year]. We'll see it switch. In other words, supply becomes king. Demand doesn't have to grow by multimillions of barrels a day every year. What we see in our numbers is supply growth grinding to a halt in 2024 and 2025, predominantly because shale is becoming the marginal-cost producer.

Come two or three years, shale productivity is going to plateau. We don't have another [oil] basin as we did in Angola in the early 2000s. We don't see any incremental quantity of supply past 2024. So how do we solve the deficit? We solve it through the price moving to a point where it starts to hurt demand. At that point, clearly, it's whatever price OPEC is comfortable with.

How high, then, could the oil price go?

Malek: At J.P. Morgan, we believe the world can cope with $150 a barrel. There is plenty of scope to go up without hurting demand. It's very different from any previous cycle. You have ESG [environmental, social, and corporate governance] pressures not to invest in oil. It comes at a higher [cost of capital] than it traditionally has. You have policy that's conducive to clean energy, and ultimately getting in the way of investing in oil. And then -- this is what surprised us the most in our supercycle thesis going out to 2028 and '29 -- the energy transition itself will create the biggest demand shock for oil that we've ever seen.

The energy system needed to get the electrons to the consumer is so materials-intensive, so oil-intensive, that it could be the equivalent of China's growth in the 2000s. The transition will create huge demand for oil, multimillions of barrels, which we can't meet because the energy system is moving toward clean energy. That can exacerbate prices well above $200. It isn't our base case, but I'm just giving you scenarios.

What do the rest of you make of that?

Croft: I broadly agree. It's an interesting dynamic that has been playing out. We discussed the Saudi-Russia relationship earlier. If we think about the energy transition, lack of investment in energy in Europe, pressures around ESG investing, and what is happening in the U.S. shale basin, the last man standing is going to be the national oil companies in the Middle East. That raises a lot of questions about geopolitics, as well.

In the heyday of shale, we talked so much about American energy dominance and what that meant for U.S. foreign policy in terms of the ability to either retreat from a region like the Middle East or sanction countries we didn't like, such as Venezuela or Iran, and shield U.S. consumers from the impact of that policy. We are in the waning days of American energy dominance. Yes, LNG is a big story and we are helping Europe meet its energy needs. But Saudi Aramco, Adnoc [Abu Dhabi National Oil Company], and Kuwait Petroleum are continuing to invest, and they dominate in production of oil.

Karim, you have written about these issues. Any further thoughts?

Fawaz: I would look at it a bit differently. In the early 2000s, we had capital available and a willingness to invest in supply, but we didn't have the resource available [before the U.S. shale revolution]. In the current environment, we have the resource, but the questions are around capital and the willingness of companies to invest.

In the second half of 2021 and in 2022, organic capital generated by the energy industry created sufficient funds to invest in supply in the medium term. Midway through last year, a lot of people were of the view that even in a higher-price environment, companies wouldn't increase capital spending. To some extent in the U.S., that was true as far as [shale] is concerned, although a lot of it was due to service-sector limitations and an inability to invest more even if companies wanted to. Yet, we saw the biggest global-exploration spending on record.

There has been underinvestment in energy production for the past decade. Some countries don't have a lot of projects, but suddenly in the past 18 months they've had enough capital to invest. Outside of the Guyanas, Norways, and Brazils of the world -- all big producers -- production declined by about 600,000 barrels a day in 2020 and 300,000 barrels in 2021. It was flat last year. Capital has gone into existing operations. Over time, the compounding effect can really change the supply picture.

How would you size up demand?

Fawaz: The deceleration of demand matters more than the peak. A lot of people focus on when demand might peak. Is it 2028 or 2030? We think about the point at which the rate of demand growth starts to slow materially, and we see that starting in 2026-27 in a meaningful way, especially for products like gasoline and diesel and jet fuel.

If you think about it from a supply standpoint, the treadmill is slowing. In that context, the U.S. doesn't need to be growing a million barrels a day per year to meet global demand growth. The U.S. needs to grow [supply] by 300,000 barrels a day per year because the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia have ambitious growth objectives.

In the medium term, we don't see the ingredients to move into a sustained-scarcity world. We believe, however, that you need a significantly higher oil price than in the past decade. The shale-era price band of $45 to $65 is insufficient to meet demand through the medium term.

Lastly, China is a different element in the oil market that hasn't existed in the past. It is a large consumer with slowing demand over the medium term, access to large inventories, and a willingness to swing imports depending on market conditions.

What are the implications of that?

Fawaz: The market avoided a catastrophic drawdown of oil inventories through last summer only because China took a three-month breather on imports of an average of about 2.5 million barrels a day. You now have an actor on the consumer side of the ledger that is able to regulate the upside in prices, to some extent.

Let's transition to the energy transition. Given that all of you seem to see oil growing more expensive in the next few years, is this shaping up to be a lucrative last hurrah for the commodity?

Malek: The energy supercycle will last well into the 2030s. We will [have too little] oil well before we no longer need it. That lifts prices of old-economy stocks -- of oil, gas, and even coal producers. We're positioned bullishly in energy stocks that have a bias toward carbon and fossil fuels. It's a relatively cautious moment if you have a six-month horizon, but those looking out over the next few years will want to prioritize companies that can grow their oil volumes. It is dangerous to say that this is the last hurrah, unless you define a last hurrah as 20 years. You want to own companies that can grow their joules of energy while decarbonizing and generating cash flow.

Energy accounts for 4% to 5% of the S&P 500. Should investors seek to double that exposure in their portfolios?

Malek: I would suggest at least 10%.

Would you put a significant portion of that in alternative-energy stocks?

Malek. No. Alternative energy and renewables are significantly overvalued. Returns are suffering because of cost inflation. Interest rates are going up. It's almost like shale 2.0, where everyone is chasing growth and thinks about returns later. Returns will diminish and companies will struggle to deliver. It is likely that old-economy stocks re-rate higher as cash flow grows, and clean-energy stocks de-rate as delivery disappoints.

19 May 2023 01:30 ET 11 Picks to Play a Resurgent Energy Sector, From -3-

Croft: In the West, we are having one conversation on the energy transition, and the developing world is having a very different conversation. At COP 28 [the United Nations' global climate conference scheduled for November], you're going to see debates about what is the best transition. If you listen to conversations from Indian officials, from sub-Saharan African officials, they're still focused on affordability. When millions of people use biomass to heat their homes, are you going to go immediately to solar? Or are you going to focus on what is the cheapest, most reliable form of energy? The developing world is an important driver of demand.

Dan, how should investors approach both conventional and alternative energy?

Pickering: They ought to be overweight energy. I recommend an 85/15 split between conventional and energy-transition names. The only reason you do 15% is to learn about the sector so you can spend a lot of time investing in it in the 2030s. It's still too early. It's the shiny new toy that is overcapitalized. The conventional stuff is trading for four to six times cash flow. Energy has been the best sector in the market for two years, but still has reluctant owners. The stocks are probably discounting $65 oil.

That's a perfect segue to your stock picks. Dan, you're based in Texas, an epicenter of the shale revolution. There is concern that the boom is ending. Is that true, and if so, how does it influence your investing?

Pickering: The shale story is plateauing. The assets aren't getting a heck of a lot better from here. That has positive implications. If U.S. shale isn't going to deliver big volumes, then that is supportive for oil prices and probably for aggregate valuation. But there are still great stories within the shale patch, and we'll see consolidation in that sector. When I think about stocks, I pick two out in the Permian, because it's the lowest-cost basin. One is a mid-cap, Permian Resources [PR], with about a $5 billion market cap. The other is Diamondback Energy [FANG], with about a $23 billion market cap.

Both companies have a significant inventory, which will become more valuable in the next three to five years. Both are well managed. They are both likely takeout candidates at some point, as bigger companies consolidate the business. And both have good cost structures and acreage positions.

Diamondback trades for about five times cash flow. It discounts about $65 oil. If you discount $80-a-barrel oil, it would trade at $195 [up from around $130]. The company has been a tactical acquirer, and will continue to be. It is committed to returning 75% of its free cash flow, so it is giving investors what they want in terms of return of capital. It is relatively low-growth. The growth will come through acquisitions.

What do you like about Permian Resources?

Pickering: Permian Resources is a bit different. It's a 10% volume grower annually. It's a $10 stock that probably trades at $20 if oil is 80 bucks. The management team is young and aggressive. There is a bit of an overhang from private-equity ownership that owns about 40% of the stock. But as private equity sells down, you're going to have a company that investors want to own for the oil leverage. You can play shale, but be selective. It isn't without volatility, so you'd better be able to stomach that.

Those are interesting picks, but what is the catalyst for a move up? The stocks have languished lately.

Pickering: Demand uncertainty and recession are overhangs. The catalyst would be that, if oil prices rise, you're going to wake up in two years and these names are going to be 30% to 50% higher because they're returning a lot of cash to shareholders. They're buying back shares. You're going to wake up and energy might not be any more popular, but it is going to be more valuable. So the catalyst could be the commodity, and consolidation. You can't count on either in the very near term, so you'd better own names that you like, and that are adding value along the way.

Will ESG concerns continue to weigh on the stocks?

Pickering: The ESG dynamic is probably plateauing, as well. The reality is, it was easy to hate these companies for the past couple of years because they burned you for five-plus years. They destroyed a lot of capital in the shale boom. When they're returning cash and generating 10% to 30% free cash yields, it's a heck of a lot harder to hate them. Some investors are never going to play. That's OK, so the universe of buyers is smaller. But these companies are making money, and I expect that you will see investors gradually and grudgingly return.

Malek: I second Dan's point on this. I meet with a lot of the CIOs [chief investment officers] in Europe. I asked one in Sweden, "At what point would you get involved in energy?" And he said, "Once it gets to 7% to 8% of the index, we have a problem. Then you are underperforming your own [stock market] benchmarks."

There's a pain threshold. It has been OK not to be in energy, because it has underperformed, so there has been no FOMO [fear of missing out]. But as energy outperforms, then it starts to become a larger part of the index and you can't ignore it. Also, policy makers are realizing that the energy system needs a huge amount of current energy sources. So, the companies need to be requalified away from being bad to good. They become part of the solution. Those two things will converge within the next two or three years. They are around the corner.

Christyan, you have written positively about some European oil companies. Which do you like now?

Malek: The best-placed companies are TotalEnergies [TTE], Shell [SHEL], and Galp Energia [GLPEY]. The reason these companies are best-placed, particularly TotalEnergies, is because they have a significant amount of runway to produce oil, gas, and gigawatts while also lowering their carbon footprint and returning lots of cash.

Fast-forward two or three years, and you'll start to see bifurcation. You'll see companies transitioning too quickly at the expense of their own cash return, because they've sold the oil. You'll also see companies that have managed to hold it all together, producing all forms of energy, without reducing their oil footprint, generating the cash flow and cash return. My favorite names are TotalEnergies and Shell.

Do you like any U.S. or Middle East names?

Malek: Globally, we like Exxon Mobil [XOM] and Saudi Arabian Oil [ARAMCO.Saudi Arabia], and Diamondback is one of our favorites, as well as Marathon Oil [MRO]. We like companies that have a disproportionate skew to oil-volume growth, which then generates lots of cash flow. But a really important thing is distinguishing between investors. Investors in Europe do care about carbon. Global investors and U.S. investors aren't saying it's irrelevant, but it is going to be cash flow that speaks to them the most. Can I convince a European investor to buy an Exxon? Quite difficult. Is Exxon one of our top picks? Absolutely, because it can grow oil production and produce lots of cash flow. Doesn't look so well on the carbon.

Dan, are there any oil servicers or companies in other subindustries that you like?

Pickering: I've got two names to talk about One is a small-cap offshore-drilling company, Diamond Offshore Drilling [DO]. It's about a billion-dollar market cap. This sector was left for dead, but the world is coming back to offshore. The supply of rigs has dwindled because of retirements. Demand is improving. Day rates, which bottomed at $200,000 a day to rent one of those rigs, are now like $400,000 a day. The stock could double, as nothing else needs to happen except oil holds at $70 to $75 a barrel.

Schlumberger [now called SLB (SLB)] isn't a cheap name, at 15 times earnings or so, but it is the international leader in oil servicing. It is a global provider of services to all of the big oil-and-gas companies worldwide. It is consistently profitable, with good cash generation, and it is buying back shares, albeit slowly.

Malek: I'll second that. This sector is constantly being viewed as a cyclical sector. If you arrive at a supercycle, it isn't cyclical anymore. It is idiosyncratic. It isn't growth, it isn't value. It isn't momentum. To carry on from Dan's point, I remember when Schlumberger was trading at 28 to 30 times earnings. Everyone said it was too expensive. It got more expensive. When you think about how we're short of oil, and this company can deliver it through its services, you don't question the valuation. This is a structural upcycle. I'm less concerned about whether we're in a recession in three years, because we just don't have the supply of energy, and therefore valuation is less relevant.

Christyan, are there any clean-energy-focused names you would buy now?

Malek: At the moment, we're not that bullish on clean energy. We're still waiting to see valuations come in. But if they do, I'd argue that Orsted [DNNGY] and Engie [ENGIY] could do well. NextEra Energy [NEE] is another popular name. We may see eventual consolidation among the majors and clean energy. It's not about finding the right valuation. It's also looking at who is the most susceptible to being acquired.

Pickering: I am not in love with anything on the energy-transition or the clean- energy side. Ironically, Tesla is [TSLA] the biggest market cap that falls into the new-energies category, and that stock is interesting at $120, and uninteresting at $200. It's in the middle now. Everything else isn't profitable, is burning cash, needs to raise money, or is expensive. You need to spend a lot of time in the sector, getting to know these companies and the technologies, but I don't think you need to own it. The investment here is your time, not your money.

What needs to happen for these areas to be investible?

19 May 2023 01:30 ET 11 Picks to Play a Resurgent Energy Sector, From -4-

Pickering: It's really the time it is going to take to move these companies toward profitability. Some have raised enough money to be able to make it to profitability, but it's the process of getting there. In the meantime, you've got a bunch of companies that are going to go broke.

To wrap up, what might surprise people in energy over the next year?

Malek: As I said, demand is king. And it could disappoint. What a cocktail we're facing: higher mortgage rates, expensive everything. My biggest worry is that China could become very different socioeconomically, industrially, behaviorally than it was previously, and it doesn't really catch up [to its previous trajectory]. In that case, we can talk underinvestment all day long, but it will take a while before that deficit materializes, ultimately because demand disappoints.

Croft: We are into the second year of the Russia-Ukraine war. We have become so complacent. Even in Washington, the view is that Russia played its cards, and is a spent force. What would surprise us is a decision in Moscow to cause significant economic pain for the West -- that they aren't done. We shouldn't take off our radar the possibility that Russia still tries to change Western calculations about continued support for Ukraine. As long as the West continues to supply Ukraine with more weapons, the war from Russia's standpoint is difficult to win.

Pickering: I have four potential surprises. The demand side can surprise us. I'm estimating $80 oil. If it's $60, something happened with demand -- we didn't have a moderate recession; we had a severe recession. The second follows on Helima's comment about Russia, although I'd take a different tack. If peace breaks out, oil goes down. It probably shouldn't, but it will, at least in the near term. If peace breaks out, that could be surprising.

I also wrote the word stagflation. If inflation is stickier than people think, oil is likely a contributing factor and investors will be making inflation plays. Energy would certainly be a part of that trade. Lastly, what if we see a wave of takeouts? It's not just that Exxon would buy Pioneer Natural Resources [PXD], which has been rumored, but what if Exxon bought ConocoPhillips [COP]? Those would be four potential surprises, none of which are in our base case.

Karim, what's on your mind?

Fawaz: To echo a lot of what has been said already, demand is still the biggest concern in the short term. In terms of something harder to visualize, the past 12 months, especially 2022, was the year of intense government intervention [in sanctioning Russian oil and more]. To some extent, that slowed down over the past four months. There's a sense of complacency that we went through this wave of intervention and now we're normalizing. But the reality is, you can end up in a pre-interventionist environment pretty quickly if markets break out of this quasi-comfortable range. If prices move closer to $100 a barrel, does the U.S. administration change the way it is thinking about these things -- and vice versa on the downside? OPEC countries have significant modernization needs, so how that friction emerges in the next two years is also going to be interesting.

I was just in New York and Boston, talking with a lot of our investor clients. This is the first time in 10 years that I didn't get a single question about U.S. shale. That is interesting to me. To some extent, U.S. exploration and production companies have succeeded in making themselves boring and stopped being disrupters, which they have wanted to do for a number of years. But this system is still dynamic. This year is difficult, but over the next couple of years, you might start to see more comfort with potentially moving from 0% to 5% [production growth] to 3% to 7% production growth. You might also see consolidation in the hands of producers that are more comfortable growing than the current operators. We're one U.S. supply overshoot away from supply abundance getting back in the narrative. It's a low-likelihood outcome, but if the U.S. overshoots one more time, it's difficult to see how this sector gets on a sustainably more bullish trajectory in the medium term.

That's a lot to think about. Thank you, all.

Write to Avi Salzman at avi.salzman@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

19 May 2023 16:05 ET 11 Picks to Play a Resurgent Energy Sector, From Our Roundtable Experts -- Barrons.com

By Avi Salzman

It has been decades since energy took on such a central role in global affairs. Oil and gas stocks soared last year as the war in Ukraine upended the market. Now, commodity prices are tumbling again, the stocks are wobbling, and an even bigger change -- a global transition to clean energy -- appears to be around the corner.

To understand how all of these dynamics will play out in the coming years, Barron's convened a roundtable of energy experts that met on May 9 on Zoom. The group included Helima Croft, head of global commodity strategy and Middle East and North Africa research at RBC Capital Markets; Dan Pickering, founder and chief investment officer at Pickering Energy Partners; Christyan Malek, global head of energy strategy and head of Europe, the Middle East, and Africa oil and gas equity research at J.P. Morgan; and Karim Fawaz, director of financial and capital markets at S&P Global Commodity Insights.

An edited version of the conversation follows.

Barron's: Everything seemed lined up for oil prices to rise after OPEC said last month that it would cut production. Yet, Brent crude, the global benchmark, is still $75 a barrel, and could be heading lower. Let's begin with your oil-price targets for the end of 2023.

Karim Fawaz: A lot of people thought we had escaped the macro headwinds back in April, when OPEC [the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries] initiated voluntary production cuts. Clearly, that hasn't been the case so far. There is still a lot of macro pressure. It is difficult to predict what will happen next month at the OPEC meeting, but we still see sequential demand growth between now and August of around three million barrels a day.

At the same time, you're going to see another million barrels a day of supply come off the market because of OPEC production suspensions as the cuts go into effect. It's very difficult to see a path where energy-market fundamentals don't tighten significantly in the next two quarters, so we remain relatively constructive on prices. We still see Brent prices averaging $92 a barrel in the third quarter, and easing slightly into the end of the year to the mid- to high-$80s.

Dan, what is your price target for crude?

Dan Pickering: Forecasting is notoriously difficult, but to start with the long term, I'm pretty bullish on the next three to five years. I've got an $80 number for West Texas Intermediate [the U.S. benchmark for oil] as an average over that period. I expect things to improve over the remainder of this year, so $75 to $85 WTI at year end is my near-term target. Supply is constrained, but demand is the wild card. The market is treating oil as a risk-off or risk-on asset. We should expect volatility, and I'm 100% convinced I'll be wrong on that year-end price number.

Helima, what are your thoughts?

Helima Croft: I echo a lot of what was said. Oil really struggled with this sort of sum-of-all-fears worry. OPEC has shown that they are willing to midwife a recovery. It looks like they're meeting in person in June, which seems a signal that they are willing to do more. There are also other geopolitical factors that continue to be important in the market, but might not be priced in. We still have a pipeline off-line in Iraq, with no signs of an imminent restart. The Iran issue remains pretty important for the back half of the year. Right now, oil struggles when everyone focuses on the broader macroeconomic story. The fundamentals should come into the driver's seat at some point in the back half of the year.

So, do you see prices moving higher or lower?

Croft: They could go lower because of macro concerns. But we see a path toward a $90 price environment, based on the fundamentals. And again, there are some wild cards out there on the geopolitical side that aren't even factored in when we talk about $90.

Christyan, let's hear from you.

Christyan Malek: We were bearish from 2013 to 2020. We turned formally bullish on the long term in our supercycle thesis in the spring of 2020, which was a difficult time, for obvious reasons. [A commodity supercycle is a period of sustained expansion, usually characterized by high prices.] Having said that, we have put the supercycle thesis on hold this year, and tend to think that this year is a bit of a write-off for energy. We turned bearish on energy in December of last year, both on the asset class and the commodities. It will be a difficult first half of the year. The rest of the year is highly dependent on the recession outlook. I expect that energy prices will be range-bound through the end of the year. Demand is like a sword hanging over the market.

By range-bound, do you mean that Brent will stay in the high-$70s?

Malek: Yes. We have talked about the worst-case scenario being around $60 a barrel this year. OPEC stepped in to protect $60 oil, not $80 [as some other analysts have said]. We can expect more OPEC intervention. In other words, they're not trying to create a higher-price scenario, but protect a really bad scenario from playing out. It's not about trying to stoke the price at the expense of the consumer. If anything, it is protecting investment today to protect the consumer in years to come. Without that investment today, we could see severe energy inflation in the future. We have talked about $200 oil by 2025 as an upside scenario, with $80 being a long-run forecast for Brent.

We are less than a month from another OPEC meeting. OPEC is now in an alliance with Russia, with serious geopolitical implications. Helima, what do you expect to happen?

Croft: It's really about market management. One of the key drivers for Saudi Arabia is to deliver on Vision 2030, its massive infrastructure and job-creation program. It grounds a lot of the country's oil policy. The White House didn't see an OPEC cut coming in October. Because it happened right before the midterm election, everything was seen through the prism of Washington politics, when in fact the Saudis were really trying to put in a circuit breaker to stop oil from falling quickly. I don't see that the Saudis are going to end their relationship with Russia in terms of market management. If oil is in its current price range or potentially even lower at the OPEC meeting next month, then OPEC is prepared to take additional action. They believe they have to support the market until more fundamental factors reassert themselves.

Speaking of Russia, it has been more than a year since the invasion of Ukraine, and the war is still going on. Russian oil is still on the market; it's just moving in different directions. What does this mean for oil and natural gas longer term?

Croft: The Biden administration was clear from the start of the war: It was going to sanction everything, but wanted to keep Russian energy flowing. It was deeply concerned about maintaining popular support for the war in an energy crisis. Primarily, the goal of price caps on Russian oil was to blunt the impact of the European Union's package of sanctions, particularly the ban on oil services to move Russian barrels to third-party markets. That Russian oil is still going in large quantities to India and China was the key objective of price caps.

The Russians themselves decided to take their natural gas off the market. The question is: Has Europe built sufficient supply to get through winter? There is a lot of optimism in EU countries that they have built sufficient stockpiles to get through next winter, and the focus now is on 2024. But the real question is: Has Russia played its last card? Could we potentially see [energy] infrastructure attacks linked to Russia?

What do you think, Karim?

Fawaz: I mostly agree with Helima. The U.S. administration's objective coming into the fall was fairly clear. It was safeguarding oil flows in a way that was destructive to Russian revenue. That has happened, to a large extent, partly because prices have been low enough that the majority of oil exports from Russia have been de facto trading below the price cap. A large share of Russia's fleet has been able to access Western services. What's more interesting to think about is, if prices move higher in the second half of the year, as we expect, and oil suddenly starts to trade near or above the price cap, will the EU start looking to enforce it more stringently?

The commodity that has been inspiring the most debate lately is natural gas, which soared to $9 per million British thermal units last year and crashed to $2 this year. Meanwhile, gas-related stocks haven't fallen as much as the commodity. We're in a relatively lengthy period with a lot of supply and, at least in the U.S., not a ton of export capacity for liquefied natural gas to sell that supply elsewhere. Where do prices for natural gas and the stocks go next, Dan?

Pickering: The siren call of new LNG export capacity in 2025 and 2026 is keeping the market pretty bullish on gas. A couple of LNG projects are coming on-line in 2025 and '26, so U.S. producers will be able to export more of their product overseas. Despite low prices, you're seeing a reluctance by the industry to slow production activity because no one wants to be behind the curve when the market, in theory, tightens up in late 2025. We're in a Catch-22; the long term is bullish; the short term is bearish. Winter is always a wild card, but no one is expecting much out of natural-gas pricing in the near term. The risk is if LNG exports slip or new projects take longer to build. Then, gas will have another leg down in sentiment.

Are you cautious on the stocks of gas-focused producers?

19 May 2023 16:05 ET 11 Picks to Play a Resurgent Energy Sector, From -2-

Pickering: The stocks have fallen. Antero Resources [ticker: AR] has been cut in half. It is starting to look interesting. The question is: What's the catalyst for the stock to work, particularly relative to the oil names? Gas is sort of a no man's land from a stock perspective. The stocks aren't particularly expensive. The companies have their balance sheets in order. There isn't financial distress. I'd rather play oil than gas from a stock market perspective, both the commodity and the companies that produce it. Really, these are 2025 stories, which means you probably get paid next year, not this year.

Christyan, you have written that the world isn't investing enough in energy. But there seems to be plenty of natural gas.

Malek: There is so much additional gas coming on-line in the next few years. We see a race to the downside in gas. If anything, gas feels like it's on a downward trend with fake highs because so much additional supply is coming on-line. China is switching a lot of its usage into coal, with less regard for net-zero emissions than it used to have. The extra production coming through in 2025 and '26, whether from Qatar, the U.S., or potentially the Saudis, means having too much gas supply just when demand isn't keeping up.

The reverse is true for oil. Remember the airports last year? You had a 10-minute queue just to get a coffee in Terminal 2 at Heathrow. That was because of very strong travel demand. Oil also carried a risk premium, too, which was a function of the concern around a lack of supply coming from Russia, which ultimately didn't play out. OPEC had to add production to deal with the increase in demand, but also that risk premium. Now, we're seeing a mean reversion, or a correction in terms of how much production we need from OPEC to normalize demand. That is true in the West as we move past a partial lockdown and into a potential recession, and in China as we get past lockdown into whatever things look like after Covid.

Just what are you expecting?

Malek: Over the next 12 to 18 months, we're going to progress through this choppy demand outlook as we find our feet, post-Covid. Demand has been [a more important issue than supply this year]. We'll see it switch. In other words, supply becomes king. Demand doesn't have to grow by multimillions of barrels a day every year. What we see in our numbers is supply growth grinding to a halt in 2024 and 2025, predominantly because shale is becoming the marginal-cost producer.

Come two or three years, shale productivity is going to plateau. We don't have another [oil] basin as we did in Angola in the early 2000s. We don't see any incremental quantity of supply past 2024. So, how do we solve the deficit? We solve it through the price moving to a point where it starts to hurt demand. At that point, clearly, it's whatever price OPEC is comfortable with.

How high, then, could the oil price go?

Malek: At J.P. Morgan, we believe the world can cope with $150 a barrel. There is plenty of scope to go up without hurting demand. It's very different from any previous cycle. You have ESG [environmental, social, and corporate governance] pressures not to invest in oil. It comes at a higher [cost of capital] than it traditionally has. You have policy that's conducive to clean energy, and ultimately getting in the way of investing in oil. And then -- this is what surprised us the most in our supercycle thesis going out to 2028 and '29 -- the energy transition itself will create the biggest demand shock for oil that we've ever seen.

The energy system needed to get the electrons to the consumer is so materials-intensive, so oil-intensive, that it could be the equivalent of China's growth in the 2000s. The transition will create huge demand for oil, multimillions of barrels, which we can't meet because the energy system is moving toward clean energy. That can exacerbate prices well above $200. It isn't our base case, but I'm just giving you scenarios.

What do the rest of you make of that?

Croft: I broadly agree. It's an interesting dynamic that has been playing out. We discussed the Saudi-Russia relationship earlier. If we think about the energy transition, lack of investment in energy in Europe, pressures around ESG investing, and what is happening in the U.S. shale basin, the last man standing is going to be the national oil companies in the Middle East. That raises a lot of questions about geopolitics, as well.

In the heyday of shale, we talked so much about American energy dominance and what that meant for U.S. foreign policy in terms of the ability to either retreat from a region like the Middle East or sanction countries we didn't like, such as Venezuela or Iran, and shield U.S. consumers from the impact of that policy. We are in the waning days of American energy dominance. Yes, LNG is a big story, and we are helping Europe meet its energy needs. But Saudi Aramco, Adnoc [Abu Dhabi National Oil Co.], and Kuwait Petroleum are continuing to invest, and they dominate in production of oil.

Karim, you have written about these issues. Any further thoughts?

Fawaz: I would look at it a bit differently. In the early 2000s, we had capital available and a willingness to invest in supply, but we didn't have the resource available [before the U.S. shale revolution]. In the current environment, we have the resource, but the questions are around capital and the willingness of companies to invest.

In the second half of 2021 and in 2022, organic capital generated by the energy industry created sufficient funds to invest in supply in the medium term. Midway through last year, a lot of people were of the view that even in a higher-price environment, companies wouldn't increase capital spending. To some extent in the U.S., that was true as far as [shale] is concerned, although a lot of it was due to service-sector limitations and an inability to invest more even if companies wanted to. Yet, we saw the biggest global-exploration spending on record.

There has been underinvestment in energy production for the past decade. Some countries don't have a lot of projects, but suddenly in the past 18 months they've had enough capital to invest. Outside of the Guyanas, Norways, and Brazils of the world -- all big producers -- production declined by about 600,000 barrels a day in 2020 and 300,000 barrels in 2021. It was flat last year. Capital has gone into existing operations. Over time, the compounding effect can really change the supply picture.

How would you size up demand?

Fawaz: The deceleration of demand matters more than the peak. A lot of people focus on when demand might peak. Is it 2028 or 2030? We think about the point at which the rate of demand growth starts to slow materially, and we see that starting in 2026-27 in a meaningful way, especially for products like gasoline and diesel and jet fuel.

If you think about it from a supply standpoint, the treadmill is slowing. In that context, the U.S. doesn't need to be growing a million barrels a day per year to meet global demand growth. The U.S. needs to grow [supply] by 300,000 barrels a day per year because the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia have ambitious growth objectives.

In the medium term, we don't see the ingredients to move into a sustained-scarcity world. We believe, however, that you need a significantly higher oil price than in the past decade. The shale-era price band of $45 to $65 is insufficient to meet demand through the medium term.

Lastly, China is a different element in the oil market that hasn't existed in the past. It is a large consumer with slowing demand over the medium term, access to large inventories, and a willingness to swing imports depending on market conditions.

What are the implications of that?

Fawaz: The market avoided a catastrophic drawdown of oil inventories through last summer only because China took a three-month breather on imports of an average of about 2.5 million barrels a day. You now have an actor on the consumer side of the ledger that is able to regulate the upside in prices, to some extent.

Let's transition to the energy transition. Given that all of you seem to see oil growing more expensive in the next few years, is this shaping up to be a lucrative last hurrah for the commodity?

Malek: The energy supercycle will last well into the 2030s. We will [have too little] oil well before we no longer need it. That lifts prices of old-economy stocks -- of oil, gas, and even coal producers. We're positioned bullishly in energy stocks that have a bias toward carbon and fossil fuels. It's a relatively cautious moment if you have a six-month horizon, but those looking out over the next few years will want to prioritize companies that can grow their oil volumes. It is dangerous to say that this is the last hurrah, unless you define a last hurrah as 20 years. You want to own companies that can grow their joules of energy while decarbonizing and generating cash flow.

Energy accounts for 4% to 5% of the S&P 500 index. Should investors seek to double that exposure in their portfolios?

Malek: I would suggest at least 10%.

Would you put a significant portion of that in alternative-energy stocks?

Malek. No. Alternative energy and renewables are significantly overvalued. Returns are suffering because of cost inflation. Interest rates are going up. It's almost like shale 2.0, where everyone is chasing growth and thinks about returns later. Returns will diminish, and companies will struggle to deliver. It is likely that old-economy stocks re-rate higher as cash flow grows, and clean-energy stocks de-rate as delivery disappoints.

19 May 2023 16:05 ET 11 Picks to Play a Resurgent Energy Sector, From -3-

Croft: In the West, we are having one conversation on the energy transition, and the developing world is having a very different conversation. At COP 28 [the United Nations' global climate conference scheduled for November], you're going to see debates about what is the best transition. If you listen to conversations from Indian officials, from sub-Saharan African officials, they're still focused on affordability. When millions of people use biomass to heat their homes, are you going to go immediately to solar? Or are you going to focus on what is the cheapest, most reliable form of energy? The developing world is an important driver of demand.

Dan, how should investors approach both conventional and alternative energy?

Pickering: They ought to be overweight energy. I recommend an 85/15 split between conventional and energy-transition names. The only reason you do 15% is to learn about the sector so you can spend a lot of time investing in it in the 2030s. It's still too early. It's the shiny new toy that is overcapitalized. The conventional stuff is trading for four to six times cash flow. Energy has been the best sector in the market for two years, but still has reluctant owners. The stocks are probably discounting $65 oil.

That's a perfect segue to your stock picks. Dan, you're based in Texas, an epicenter of the shale revolution. There is concern that the boom is ending. Is that true, and if so, how does it influence your investing?

Pickering: The shale story is plateauing. The assets aren't getting a heck of a lot better from here. That has positive implications. If U.S. shale isn't going to deliver big volumes, then that is supportive for oil prices and probably for aggregate valuation. But there are still great stories within the shale patch, and we'll see consolidation in that sector. When I think about stocks, I pick two out in the Permian, because it's the lowest-cost basin. One is a mid-cap, Permian Resources [PR], with about a $5 billion market cap. The other is Diamondback Energy [FANG], with about a $23 billion market cap.

Both companies have a significant inventory, which will become more valuable in the next three to five years. Both are well managed. They are both likely takeout candidates at some point, as bigger companies consolidate the business. And both have good cost structures and acreage positions.

Diamondback trades for about five times cash flow. It discounts about $65 oil. If you discount $80-a-barrel oil, it would trade at $195 [up from about $130]. The company has been a tactical acquirer, and will continue to be. It is committed to returning 75% of its free cash flow, so it is giving investors what they want in terms of return of capital. It is relatively low-growth. The growth will come through acquisitions.

What do you like about Permian Resources?

Pickering: Permian Resources is a bit different. It's a 10% volume grower annually. It's a $10 stock that probably trades at $20 if oil is 80 bucks. The management team is young and aggressive. There is a bit of an overhang from private-equity ownership that owns about 40% of the stock. But as private equity sells down, you're going to have a company that investors want to own for the oil leverage. You can play shale, but be selective. It isn't without volatility, so you'd better be able to stomach that.

Those are interesting picks, but what is the catalyst for a move up? The stocks have languished lately.

Pickering: Demand uncertainty and recession are overhangs. The catalyst would be that, if oil prices rise, you're going to wake up in two years and these names are going to be 30% to 50% higher because they're returning a lot of cash to shareholders. They're buying back shares. You're going to wake up, and energy might not be any more popular, but it is going to be more valuable. So, the catalyst could be the commodity, and consolidation. You can't count on either in the very near term, so you'd better own names that you like, and that are adding value along the way.

Will ESG concerns continue to weigh on the stocks?

Pickering: The ESG dynamic is probably plateauing, as well. The reality is, it was easy to hate these companies for the past couple of years because they burned you for five-plus years. They destroyed a lot of capital in the shale boom. When they're returning cash and generating 10% to 30% free cash yields, it's a heck of a lot harder to hate them. Some investors are never going to play. That's OK, so the universe of buyers is smaller. But these companies are making money, and I expect that you will see investors gradually and grudgingly return.

Malek: I second Dan's point on this. I meet with a lot of the CIOs [chief investment officers] in Europe. I asked one in Sweden, "At what point would you get involved in energy?" And he said, "Once it gets to 7% to 8% of the index, we have a problem. Then you are underperforming your own [stock market] benchmarks."

There's a pain threshold. It has been OK not to be in energy because it has underperformed, so there has been no FOMO [fear of missing out]. But as energy outperforms, then it starts to become a larger part of the index, and you can't ignore it. Also, policy makers are realizing that the energy system needs a huge amount of current energy sources. So, the companies need to be requalified away from being bad to good. They become part of the solution. Those two things will converge within the next two or three years. They are around the corner.

Christyan, you have written positively about some European oil companies. Which do you like now?

Malek: The best-placed companies are TotalEnergies [TTE], Shell [SHEL], and Galp Energia [GLPEY]. The reason these companies are best placed, particularly TotalEnergies, is because they have a significant amount of runway to produce oil, gas, and gigawatts while also lowering their carbon footprint and returning lots of cash.

Fast-forward two or three years and you'll start to see bifurcation. You'll see companies transitioning too quickly at the expense of their own cash return, because they've sold the oil. You'll also see companies that have managed to hold it all together, producing all forms of energy, without reducing their oil footprint, generating the cash flow and cash return. My favorite names are TotalEnergies and Shell.

Do you like any U.S. or Middle East names?

Malek: Globally, we like Exxon Mobil [XOM] and Saudi Arabian Oil [ARAMCO.Saudi Arabia], and Diamondback is one of our favorites, as well as Marathon Oil [MRO]. We like companies that have a disproportionate skew to oil-volume growth, which then generates lots of cash flow. But a really important thing is distinguishing between investors. Investors in Europe do care about carbon. Global investors and U.S. investors aren't saying it's irrelevant, but it is going to be cash flow that speaks to them the most. Can I persuade a European investor to buy an Exxon? Quite difficult. Is Exxon one of our top picks? Absolutely, because it can grow oil production and produce lots of cash flow. Doesn't look so well on the carbon.

Dan, are there any oil servicers or companies in other subindustries that you like?

Pickering: I've got two names to talk about. One is a small-cap offshore-drilling company, Diamond Offshore Drilling [DO]. It's about a billion-dollar market cap. This sector was left for dead, but the world is coming back to offshore. The supply of rigs has dwindled because of retirements. Demand is improving. Day rates, which bottomed at $200,000 a day to rent one of those rigs, are now like $400,000 a day. The stock could double, as nothing else needs to happen except oil holds at $70 to $75 a barrel.

Schlumberger [now called SLB (SLB)] isn't a cheap name at 15 times earnings or so, but it is the international leader in oil servicing. It is a global provider of services to all of the big oil-and-gas companies worldwide. It is consistently profitable, with good cash generation, and it is buying back shares, albeit slowly.

Malek: I'll second that. This sector is constantly being viewed as a cyclical sector. If you arrive at a supercycle, it isn't cyclical anymore. It is idiosyncratic. It isn't growth; it isn't value. It isn't momentum. To carry on from Dan's point, I remember when Schlumberger was trading at 28 to 30 times earnings. Everyone said it was too expensive. It got more expensive. When you think about how we're short of oil, and this company can deliver it through its services, you don't question the valuation. This is a structural upcycle. I'm less concerned about whether we're in a recession in three years because we just don't have the supply of energy, and therefore valuation is less relevant.

Christyan, are there any clean-energy-focused names you would buy now?

Malek: At the moment, we're not that bullish on clean energy. We're still waiting to see valuations come in. But if they do, I'd argue that Orsted [DNNGY] and Engie [ENGIY] could do well. NextEra Energy [NEE] is another popular name. We may see eventual consolidation among the majors and clean energy. It's not about finding the right valuation. It's also looking at who is the most susceptible to being acquired.

Pickering: I am not in love with anything on the energy-transition or the clean-energy side. Ironically, Tesla is [TSLA] the biggest market cap that falls into the new-energies category, and that stock is interesting at $120, and uninteresting at $200. It's in the middle now. Everything else isn't profitable, is burning cash, needs to raise money, or is expensive. You need to spend a lot of time in the sector, getting to know these companies and the technologies, but I don't think you need to own it. The investment here is your time, not your money.

What needs to happen for these areas to be investible?

19 May 2023 16:05 ET 11 Picks to Play a Resurgent Energy Sector, From -4-

Pickering: It's really the time it is going to take to move these companies toward profitability. Some have raised enough money to be able to make it to profitability, but it's the process of getting there. In the meantime, you've got a bunch of companies that are going to go broke.

To wrap up, what might surprise people in energy over the next year?

Malek: As I said, demand is king. And it could disappoint. What a cocktail we're facing: higher mortgage rates, expensive everything. My biggest worry is that China could become very different socioeconomically, industrially, behaviorally than it was previously, and it doesn't really catch up [to its previous trajectory]. In that case, we can talk underinvestment all day long, but it will take a while before that deficit materializes, ultimately because demand disappoints.

Croft: We are into the second year of the Russia-Ukraine war. We have become so complacent. Even in Washington, the view is that Russia played its cards and is a spent force. What would surprise us is a decision in Moscow to cause significant economic pain for the West -- that they aren't done. We shouldn't take off our radar the possibility that Russia still tries to change Western calculations about continued support for Ukraine. As long as the West continues to supply Ukraine with more weapons, the war from Russia's standpoint is difficult to win.

Pickering: I have four potential surprises. The demand side can surprise us. I'm estimating $80 oil. If it's $60, something happened with demand -- we didn't have a moderate recession; we had a severe recession. The second follows on Helima's comment about Russia, although I'd take a different tack. If peace breaks out, oil goes down. It probably shouldn't, but it will, at least in the near term. If peace breaks out, that could be surprising.

I also wrote the word stagflation. If inflation is stickier than people think, oil is likely a contributing factor, and investors will be making inflation plays. Energy would certainly be a part of that trade. Lastly, what if we see a wave of takeouts? It's not just that Exxon would buy Pioneer Natural Resources [PXD], which has been rumored, but what if Exxon bought ConocoPhillips [COP]? Those would be four potential surprises, none of which are in our base case.

Karim, what's on your mind?

Fawaz: To echo a lot of what has been said already, demand is still the biggest concern in the short term. In terms of something harder to visualize, the past 12 months, especially 2022, was the year of intense government intervention [in sanctioning Russian oil and more]. To some extent, that slowed down over the past four months. There's a sense of complacency that we went through this wave of intervention and now we're normalizing. But the reality is, you can end up in a pre-interventionist environment pretty quickly if markets break out of this quasi-comfortable range. If prices move closer to $100 a barrel, does the U.S. administration change the way it is thinking about these things -- and vice versa on the downside? OPEC members have significant modernization needs, so how that friction emerges in the next two years is also going to be interesting.

I was just in New York and Boston, talking with a lot of our investor clients. This is the first time in 10 years that I didn't get a single question about U.S. shale. That is interesting to me. To some extent, U.S. exploration-and-production companies have succeeded in making themselves boring and stopped being disrupters, which they have wanted to do for a number of years. But this system is still dynamic. This year is difficult, but over the next couple of years, you might start to see more comfort with potentially moving from 0% to 5% [production growth] to 3% to 7% production growth. You might also see consolidation in the hands of producers that are more comfortable growing than the current operators. We're one U.S. supply overshoot away from supply abundance getting back in the narrative. It's a low-likelihood outcome, but if the U.S. overshoots one more time, it's difficult to see how this sector gets on a sustainably more bullish trajectory in the medium term.

That's a lot to think about. Thank you, all. B

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 19, 2023 16:05 ET (20:05 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020230519ej5j000e4


Weekend
F-16 JETS ADD TO UKRAINIAN FIREPOWER; The US-built fighter jets could play a crucial role in augmenting future Ukrainian counteroffensives aimed at retaking occupied land and forcing Russia out of Crimea
1596 字
2023 年 8 月 12 日
The Irish Times
IRTI
6
英文
© 2023, The Irish Times.
As Ukrainian pilots prepare to train

this month on US-built F-16 fighter jets, there are two big strategic aims at stake: transforming Ukraine’s old Soviet-style air force into a western one, and hauling its military more rapidly into line with Nato’s defensive capabilities.

Both of those aims are essentially about securing Ukraine’s future. Geopolitically, supplying enough F-16s for an effective small air force is a hugely expensive multi-year project demanding the type of EU and Nato collaboration that will illustrate to Vladimir Putin the resolve of Kyiv’s allies.

And tactically, having sent that message of unshakeable resolve, while the jets cannot hope to provide anything approaching air superiority for Ukraine, they have the potential to form the basis of a relatively up-to-date deterrent in a battlefield where every deterrent saves civilian lives.

That’s why, when the Biden White House relented in May and reversed an earlier decision not to sanction the use of F-16s by Ukraine, it said the reversal was based on the function of the aircraft in supporting “mid- and long-term defence needs” – in other words, the need to dovetail with Nato.

It’s important to realise though that F-16s are not “plug-and-play” technology of the type participants in 21st century conflict expect.

While they’ve been popular because they can fight both air-to-air and air-to-ground, they’ve been in service since 1979, have had multiple upgrades since then – and as a result often have differing software, radar and even electronic warfare standards from country to country.

That’s the crux facing the Dutch, who’ve been chosen as the European training co-ordinators for the Ukrainian pilots, assisted by Denmark. Straight out of the starting blocks, the challenge is to source somewhere between 20 and 30 of these jets with – primarily – common software standards.

The Dutch and the Danes were chosen at the Nato summit in Vilnius last month because both countries are in the process of transitioning from the F-16 to the new generation Lockheed Martin F-35 – which fly out of Volkel airfield, a former Luftwaffe base in the south of the Netherlands.

While F-16s are referred to in terms of their technical kit as “fourth generation aircraft”, the F-35 is very much fifth generation – which typically means it has low-probability intercept radar, stealth capability, agile airframe and advanced avionics, including weapons systems.

Volkel, in fact, is home to a squadron of each generation – 312 Squadron is an F-16 squadron, and 313 Squadron is an F-35 squadron. Many of the pilots have flown both, some on multiple missions in Afghanistan before the return to power there of the Taliban in 2021.

For those who remember the original Top Gun movie, Volkel is the more low-key Dutch equivalent of Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, near San Diego, California, nicknamed “Fightertown USA”.

As a result, the Dutch know F-16s intimately, still fly 24 of them, still train on them, and already have 18 retired and available for immediate transfer to Ukraine. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy has characteristically been more bullish, saying Kyiv would ultimately like to receive 40 to 50.

So how will the training progress?

In March, the first two Ukrainian pilots, highly experienced flying Soviet-era MiGs, began training in the US, having their capabilities assessed on simulators in Tucson, Arizona, to begin to generate some realistic indicators of the parameters of a wider training programme and the time required.

Three stages

In June, Dutch defence minister Kajsa Ollongren, in a written briefing to parliament, revealed that a new flight training centre would be established in an unnamed “eastern Nato member country”, which has since transpired to be Romania.

The training will be in three stages: conversion training, language proficiency, and then initial flight training. Two groups of 12 Ukrainian pilots each would start the programme, to be combined with a €40 million air defence package for Ukraine announced by the defence contact group, Ollongren said.

“Flying-wise, if you’re an experienced fighter pilot, even the F-16 to some extent is just another airplane,” says Col Laurens-Jan Vijge, a Dutch F-35 pilot who flew F-16s for 15 years and who’s part of the team assembled to train the Ukrainians.

In a recent interview with Reuters, he identified an essential difference between flying an F-16 and a MiG – what he calls “the hands-on throttle and stick”.

“On the F-16 you use the throttle to accelerate and the stick to control the plane. That means that on both the throttle and the stick there are lots of buttons you use to control the avionics. Usually in Soviet aircraft, that’s less part of the design or even non-existent.”

It’s worth remembering too that it’s not just about flying these highly responsive attack jets, capable of reaching a top speed of Mach 2 or 2,100kmh.

Making the programme a success means training the Ukrainians to fly, service and maintain the jets, with adequate ammunition and spare parts and all the high-end technical expertise to keep the show on the road in moments of crisis.

In July, at a meeting between the defence ministers of Ukraine, the Netherlands and Denmark, Romania as the training location was finally out in the open and the timescale was gradually becoming clearer, as was the impressive number of countries committed to providing technical and support personnel – the UK, Canada, Poland, Norway, Sweden, Portugal, Belgium and Luxembourg.

Ukraine’s defence minister Oleksii Reznikov said the best advice by then was that the training modules would last no longer than six months.

Denmark’s acting defence minister Troels Lund Poulsen agreed and again emphasised the rolling nature of the collaboration: “Hopefully, we’ll see the results by the beginning of next year. This is a long-term initiative, however. That’s why we need as many countries as possible joining forces to begin the task.”

Even so, Brynn Tannehill, a senior technical analyst at US think tank Rand, has no illusions about the capacity of F-16s to turn the course of the war in Ukraine’s favour, although she does see how such capacity might support Kyiv’s campaign to win back the Crimean peninsula, annexed by Putin in February 2014.

As things stand, she says, even in the hands of US aviators, F-16s are no match for large Russian fighters such as the MiG-31 or the Su-35, both of which can “see” significantly further with their more powerful radar.

“In other words, Russian jets can potentially spot F-16s and shoot them down before the F-16s see them coming. That’s exactly what’s been happening with Ukraine’s current fleet of MiG-29s and Su-27s, and the improved capabilities of the F-16 are not enough to tilt this disparity in Ukraine’s favour. So it’s not a panacea.”

On the other hand, suggests Tannehill, if Ukraine’s F-16s were to be equipped with long-range Joint Air-to-Surface Stand-off Missiles (JASSM) they could be critical to Ukraine’s aim to retake Crimea “without a fight”, as Reznikov suggested recently.

Achieving this would require the capacity to leave Russian troops on the peninsula exposed by cutting them off from their supply lines via the Kerch Strait bridge, via the land route from Rostov-on-Don – the largest city in southern Russia, just 100km from Ukraine’s border – or via Black Sea ports such as Sevastopol or Novorossijsk.

‘Orchestra’

Using JASSM, F-16s could give Ukraine the ability to consistently hit logistics hubs such as port facilities, ammunition depots, command-and-control facilities, and bridges such as Kerch – at 19km the longest and most complex bridge ever constructed by Russia – and by any standards a prestige target.

That’s why, while it undoubtedly came as a surprise that Ukraine used sea drones in two separate high-profile attacks on Russian ships in the Black Sea last weekend, it was little surprise that the targets were located where they were.

For Ukrainian tacticians, the name of the game in the Black Sea is disruption of Russian logistics.

In that context, it’s worth noting that JASSM could also serve as a stand-in for the ground-launched ATACMS (Army Tactical Missile System), a tactical ballistic missile with a range of about 300km which Ukraine has so far unsuccessfully requested from the US.

The bottom line then is that the tactical challenge is far more complicated than simply retraining a corps of experienced Ukrainian pilots and delivering a handful of well-used but reliable F-16s to them.

Every step closer that Ukraine can move to Nato capabilities is positive for the country in that – barring tumultuous change emanating from the White House – it commits both sides to future technological co-evolution and the cultural convergence that comes with it.

And while the doughty F-16 on its own may indeed not be a game-changer, military operations are sometimes described as coming together like “an orchestra of firepower”.

In such an orchestra, it could play a crucial role in augmenting future Ukrainian counteroffensives aimed at retaking occupied land and forcing Russia out of Crimea.

The Irish Times

文件 IRTI000020230812ej8c00033


TORM plc - Earnings Release - Form 6-K
TORM plc published this content on 17 Aug 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 17 Aug 2023 21:01:55 UTC.
15190 字
2023 年 8 月 17 日
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Filings
SAEXC
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1655891/0000919574-23-004888-index.html]

Earnings Release - Form 6-K

Highlights

“During the second quarter of 2023, we experienced a continued healthy rate environment, contributing to a profit before tax of USD 184m compared to USD 107m in the same period last year," says Jacob Meldgaard and continues: "Based on this, we will return USD 126.6m to our shareholders as dividends for the period."

Results

• TCE for Q2 2023: USD/day 36,360 (Q2 2022: USD/day 29,622). TCE for Q1-Q2 2023: USD/day 38,903 (Q1-Q2 2022: USD/day 23,152).

• EBITDA for Q2 2023: USD 236.8m (Q2 2022: 153.4m). EBITDA for Q1-Q2 2023: USD 435.4m (Q1-Q1 2022: 213.8m).

• Unrealized gains from financial instruments related to freight and bunker for Q2 2023: USD 37.0m (Q2 2022: USD -9.5m). For Q1-Q2 2023: USD 21.2m (Q1-Q2 2022: USD -11.1m).

• Adjusted EBITDA for Q2 2023: USD 199.8m (Q2 2022: 162.9m). Adjusted EBITDA for Q1-Q2 2023: USD 414.2m (Q1-Q1 2022: 224.9m).

• Profit before tax for Q2 2023: USD 184.4m (Q2 2022: USD 107.0m). Profit before tax for Q1-Q2 2023: USD 339.5m (Q1-Q2 2022: USD 117.7m).

• EPS: Q2 2023: USD 2.23/share, DKK 15.25/share (Q2 2022: USD 1.31/share, DKK 9.16/share). EPS Q1-Q2 2023: USD 4.10/share, DKK 28.26/share (Q1-Q2 2022: USD 1.44/share, DKK 9.80/share).

• Return on Invested Capital: Q2 2023: 33.9% (Q2 2022: 22.7%). Return on Invested Capital Q1-Q2 2023: 31.6% (Q1-Q2 2022: 13.7%).

• Declared dividends for Q2 2023 of USD 1.50/share, with an expected total dividend of USD 126.6m Expected payment date is 12 September 2023 based on shareholders on record on 29 August 2023. Ex-dividend date will be 28 August 2023.

Coverage

• As of 14 August 2023, the coverage for the third quarter of 2023 was 74% at USD/day 30,534:

• LR2: 70% at USD/day 32,579

• LR1: 88% at USD/day 29,626

• MR: 71% at USD/day 30,349

Business highlights

• In the second quarter of 2023, TORM announced a new collaboration with Seabulk to participate in the Tanker Security Program (TSP) led by the U.S. Maritime Administration (MARAD). The TSP aims to enhance the competitiveness of a core fleet of U.S. based product tankers in international trade and bolster the resilience of the U.S. supply chain for liquid fuel products. Three of TORM's MR vessels, (TORM Thor, TORM Thunder, and TORM Timothy) will participate in the program, serving both MARAD and continuing their regular operations under TORM. As part of their participation, the vessels will undergo reflagging to the U.S. flag in the second half of 2023.

• During Q2 2023, TORM increased the fleet by net four vessels to 87 vessels in total. We took delivery of two LR1 vessels acquired in January 2023 and three MR vessels acquired in March 2023 and further during Q2, TORM sold and delivered one LR1 vessel. In the beginning of Q3, we sold one MR vessel with expected delivery in August 2023. Following these transactions TORM has a fleet of 86 vessels.

• In Q2, TORM completed the refinancing of bank and leasing agreements for USD 480m and further secured a USD 73m facility that can be used for additional secondhand vessel

financing. Since the announcement in March 2023, TORM has utilized USD 50m of the USD 123m that was originally committed for secondhand financing. As a result of the transaction, debt maturities have been extended to 2028-2029. In addition to the bilateral facility financed by one specialized shipping bank, nine banks participated in the syndicated facilities agreement.

• As of 17 August 2023, TORM has installed a total of 62 scrubbers across the fleet (Q2 2022: 51).

• Based on broker valuations, TORM's fleet had a market value of USD 3,083.6m including assets held for sale as of 30 June 2023 (Q2 2022: USD 2,209m), representing an increase of USD 40.6m or 1% since 31 March 2023, when correcting for acquired and sold vessels delivered in Q2.

• Based on broker valuations, TORM's consolidated Net Asset Value (NAV) was USD 2,515.1m as of 30 June 2023 (Q2 2022: USD 1,510.8m).

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

2

Key figures

                                                                                                                     
USDm                                                                          Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Income statements                                                                                                    
Revenue                                                                       384.3   338.5   774.5      547.9      1,443.4
Time charter equivalent earnings (TCE) ¹⁾ ⁵⁾                                  308.0   209.6   572.9      333.0      981.5
Gross profit ¹⁾                                                               255.4   158.5   471.5      232.6      781.8
EBITDA ¹⁾                                                                     236.8   153.4   435.4      213.8      743.0
Adjusted EBITDA ¹⁾                                                            199.8   162.9   414.2      224.9      743.6
Operating profit/(loss) (EBIT)                                                199.8   118.7   363.3      141.3      601.4
Financial items                                                               -15.4   -11.7   -23.8      -23.6      -44.7
Profit/(loss) before tax                                                      184.4   107.0   339.5      117.7      556.7
Net profit/(loss) for the year/period                                         185.4   106.6   339.1      117.0      562.6
Net profit/(loss) ex. non-recurrent items¹⁾                                   184.3   99.7    338.0      112.7      548.4
Unrealized gain/(loss) on financial instruments related to freight and bunker 37.0    -9.5    21.2       -11.1      -0.6
Balance sheet and cash flow                                                                                          
Non-current assets                                                            2,172.4 1,857.3 2,172.4    1,857.3    1,874.5
Total assets                                                                  2,860.6 2,421.1 2,860.6    2,421.1    2,614.2
Equity                                                                        1,566.3 1,214.7 1,566.3    1,214.7    1,503.7
Total liabilities                                                             1,294.3 1,206.4 1,294.3    1,206.4    1,110.5
Invested capital ¹⁾                                                           2,446.4 2,096.7 2,446.4    2,096.7    2,142.3
Net interest-bearing debt ¹⁾                                                  893.6   894.0   893.6      894.0      649.6
Net Asset Value (NAV) ²⁾                                                      2,515.1 1,510.8 2,515.1    1,510.8    2,329.8
Cash and cash equivalents incl. restricted cash                               269.0   157.7   269.0      157.7      323.8
Investment in tangible fixed assets                                           118.5   12.7    333.6      59.6       119.3
Free cash flow                                                                89.8    96.6    62.9       74.8       513.2
                                                                                                                     
¹⁾ For definition of the calculated key figures, please refer to the glossary on pages 31-36.
²⁾ Based on broker valuations, excluding charter commitments.
                                                                                      
                                               Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Key financial figures ¹⁾                                                              
Gross margin                                   66.5%   46.8%   60.9%      42.5%      54.2%
EBITDA margin                                  61.6%   45.3%   56.2%      39.0%      51.5%
Adjusted EBITDA margin                         52.0%   48.1%   53.5%      41.0%      51.5%
Operating profit/(loss) (EBIT) margin          52.0%   35.1%   46.9%      25.8%      41.6%
Return on Equity (RoE)                         46.0%   36.9%   44.2%      20.6%      44.0%
Return on Invested Capital (RoIC)              33.9%   22.7%   31.6%      13.7%      29.2%
Adjusted RoIC                                  33.4%   21.9%   31.1%      13.2%      28.1%
Equity ratio ³⁾                                54.8%   50.2%   54.8%      50.2%      57.5%
TCE per day (USD) ⁵⁾                           36,360  29,622  38,903     23,152     34,154
OPEX per day (USD) ⁵⁾                          7,053   6,809   7,170      6,625      6,825
Net Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio ³⁾ ⁵⁾            29.1%   42.3%   29.1%      42.3%      24.8%
Share-related key figures ¹⁾                                                          
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (USD)          2.23    1.31    4.10       1.44       6.92
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (USD)        2.14    1.31    3.95       1.44       6.80
Declared dividend per share (USD)              1.50    0.58    2.96       0.58       4.63
Declared dividend (USDm)                       126.6   47.0    247.7      47.0       378.7
Dividend paid per share (USD)                  4.05    -       4.05       -          2.04
Net Asset Value per share (NAV/share) (USD) ³⁾ 29.8    18.5    29.8       18.5       28.5
Share price in DKK ³⁾ ⁶⁾                       164.2   96.1    164.2      96.1       198.4
Share price in USD ³⁾ ⁷⁾                       24.2    13.6    24.2       13.6       29.2
Number of shares ³⁾ ⁴⁾                         84.4    81.5    84.4       81.5       81.8
No. of shares, weighted average (million) ⁴⁾   83.5    81.2    82.7       81.0       81.3
                                                                                      
³⁾ End of period
⁴⁾ Excluding treasury shares
⁵⁾ For Tanker segment                                                                 
⁶⁾ Source: Nasdaq OMX Nordic                                                          
⁷⁾ Source: Nasdaq US                                                                  
                                               

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

3

Financial review

TCE

We saw a significant increase in the average TCE rate/day by 68% from 23,152 to 38,903 in the first six months of 2023 compared to the same period last year. This increase was a result of both an increase in revenue and decrease in port expenses, bunkers, commissions, and other costs of goods sold.

Revenue for the first six months of 2023 increased by USD 226.6m to USD 774.5m compared to the same period last year, corresponding to a 41% increase. For the current quarter, revenue increased by 14% or USD 45.8m to USD 384.3m compared to the same quarter last year. The increase in the revenue for both comparison periods can primarily be attributed to the higher freight rates. Higher freight rates continue to be driven by a strong product tanker market supported by the trade recalibration caused by the sanctions and self-sanctioning of Russian product exports.

Port expenses, bunkers, commissions, and other cost of goods sold for the first six months of 2023 were USD 196.3m, a decrease of USD 18.6m compared to USD 214.9m in the same period last year. The decrease is driven by an increase in unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments regarding freight and bunkers of USD 32.3m, coming from an unrealized loss of USD 11.1m for the first six months of 2022 to an unrealized gain of USD 21.2m for the first six months of 2023. The development is offset by increased port expenses and cost of goods sold related to the Marine Exhaust segment since it was acquired and consolidated in TORM´s accounts as of Q3 2022.

For the current quarter, port expenses, bunkers, commissions, and other costs of goods sold decreased by USD 54.8m to USD 74.1m compared to USD 128.9m in the same quarter last year. The decrease for the current quarter is also driven by an increase in

unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments regarding freight and bunkers. The increase in unrealized gains was USD 46.5m, coming from an unrealized loss of USD 9.5m in Q2 2022 to an unrealized gain of USD 37.0m in Q2 2023. The decrease was further impacted by lower bunker prices.

During Q2 2023, the change in market value of TORM's derivative financial instruments regarding freight and bunkers that was positive at USD 37.0m directly impacts the TCE, but not the TCE/day measure. The market value of the contracts was USD 21.2m as of 30 June 2023.

Assets

As of 30 June 2023, total assets were USD 2,860.6m (2022, same period: USD 2,421.1m). The increase was primarily driven by an increase in vessel values and capitalized dry-docking of USD 312.6m offset by a decrease in assets held-for-sale of USD 58.4m, and secondly by an increase in trade receivables of USD 54.4m and an increase in cash position of USD 111.3m resulting from higher revenue.

The carrying value of the fleet was USD 2,149.4m as of 30 June 2023 (2022, same period: USD 1,836.8m). The increase was due to investment in 11 vessels and capitalized dry-docking of USD 452.2m. 10 of the 11 vessels were purchased during the first six months of 2023. Additionally, the increase was impacted by two vessels that ceased to be classified as assets held-for-sale for a total of USD 18.6m. The increase since 30 June 2022 was offset by the divestment of one vessel and one vessel held for sale for a total of USD 22.7m, and additionally, depreciations and impairments for a total of USD 135.5m.

Based on broker valuations, TORM's fleet had a market value of USD 3,083.6m as of 30 June 2023, 43% above carrying value.

TORM´s liquidity position by the end of Q2 2023 was USD 496.7m including restricted cash of USD 29.9m and undrawn credit facilities of USD 227.7m.

Equity

As of 30 June 2023, TORM's equity was USD 1,566.3m (2022, same period: USD 1,214.7m). The increase was mainly driven by an increase in retained profit as a result of increased freight rates, and secondly by an increase in share premium as a result of the capital increase related the previously announced purchase of three MR product tankers in a partly share-based transaction.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

4

Financial review

Cash flow statement

Net cash flow from operating activities for the first six months of 2023 was USD 407.3m (2022, same period: USD 89.0m). The increase was primarily driven by an increase in TCE.

Net cash flow from investing activities for the first six months of 2023 was USD -344.4m (2022, same period: USD -14.2m), as a result of the purchase and delivery of 10 secondhand vessels.

Net cash flow from financing activities for the first six months of 2023 was USD -144.2m (2022, same period: USD -86.3m). The decrease was primarily driven by dividends paid of USD 336.6m offset mainly by proceeds from borrowings as a result of higher vessel purchase activities.

Distribution

A dividend of USD 1.50 per share has been approved by the Board of Directors for the second quarter of 2023 with an expected total value of USD 126.6m. The distribution is in line with TORM's Distribution Policy based on liquidity available for distribution amounting to USD 283m (cash position (USD +269.0m) plus working capital facilities (USD +100.0m) less restricted cash (USD -29.9m), earmarked proceeds (USD -52.0m) and cash position related to Marine Exhaust Technology A/S (USD -4.1m)) adjusted for a cash reservation per vessel of USD 1.8m equivalent to USD 156.6m for 87 vessels.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

5

The product tanker market

Market development in Q2 2023

The product tanker market remained strong but volatile in the second quarter of 2023, albeit rates were lower than in the first quarter.

The lower rates were primarily related to the following factors:

• Spring refinery maintenance in Russia, which peaked in May, led to a temporary reduction in exports and consequently released some Russian trading vessels to the remaining market, thereby increasing capacity (and putting downward pressure on rates).

• EU clean petroleum product imports remained below pre-sanction levels in the second quarter due to lower diesel demand and increased drawdown on stocks.

• An increasing share of EU imports came from the more efficient Transatlantic market (as opposed to East of Suez), hence reducing inefficiencies.

Market outlook

At the start of the third quarter, the product tanker market has improved supported by higher product exports from the US Gulf and China and a pick-up in middle distillate imports to the EU.

Higher Russian exports amid refineries returning from maintenance has increased tonnage capacity occupied with Russian trade.

The need to rebuild diesel stockpiles in Europe, reflected in recent pick-up in European diesel prices, and the new refining capacity in the Middle East added this year suggest increasing East to West

middle distillate flows in the coming months. In the medium term, the market remains supported by low new-building deliveries, recovering global oil demand and changes in the refinery landscape.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

6

Outlook for Q3 and full-year 2023

Financial outlook for 2023

To assess our financial performance, the number of covered days, interest-bearing debt, the TCE market, and EBITDA sensitivity to freight rates are included in our periodic ongoing reporting.

The primary driver for our financial performance is the product tanker market which is highly uncertain and therefore expected to be highly volatile. We expect to maintain relatively stable OPEX on a per vessel day basis, however, with a slightly increasing trend compared to recent historical levels.

Our financial outlook is primarily based on the assumptions described on the preceding pages, and the most important macroeconomic factors affecting our TCE earnings in 2023 are expected to be:

• The EU ban on imports and transportation of Russian crude oil and oil products, and the G7 price gap vis-à-vis imports of Russian oil by third countries

• Global economic growth or recession, consumption of refined oil products, and inflationary pressure

• Location of closing and opening refineries and temporary shutdowns due to maintenance

• Oil price development

• Oil trading activity and developments in ton-mile

• Bunker price developments

• Global fleet growth and newbuilding ordering activity

• Potential difficulties of major business partners

• One-off market-shaping events such as strikes, embargoes, political instability, weather conditions, etc.

For further information and a detailed description of the most significant risks, please refer to Note 24 of TORM's Annual Report 2022.

We have very low visibility on TCE rates that are not yet fixed with our customers. Hence, these rates may be significantly lower or significantly higher than our current expectations.

For the full-year 2023, TCE earnings are expected to be in the range of USD 1,050-1,175m (previous outlook: USD 1,025-1,375m), and EBITDA is expected to be in the range of USD 775-900m (previous outlook: USD 750-1,100m) based on the current fleet size, including published acquisitions and divestments of vessels. Please refer to page 34 for a definition of TCE earnings.

As of 14 August 2023, TORM had covered 72% of the 2023 full-year earning days at USD/day 36,531. Hence, 28% of the 2023 full-year earning days are subject to change. As 8,367 earning days in 2023 are unfixed as of 14 August 2023, a change in freight rates of USD/day 1,000 will - all other things being equal - impact the EBITDA by USD 8.4m. We expect to have 29,459 earning days in 2023.

Also as of 14 August 2023, 74% of the Q3 2023 earning days was covered at USD/day 30,534. For the individual segments, the Q3 2023 coverage was 70% at USD/day 32,579 for LR2, 88% at USD/day 29,626 for LR1 and 71% at USD/day 30,349 for MR.

Disclaimer on financial outlook

The purpose of this Financial Outlook for 2023 is to comply with reporting requirements for companies listed in Denmark. Actual results may vary, and this information may not be accurate or appropriate for other purposes. Information about our financial outlook for 2023, including the various assumptions underlying it, is forward-looking and should be read in conjunction with the "Safe Harbor Statements as to the Future" on page 11, and the related disclosure and information about various economic, competitive, and regulatory assumptions, factors, and risks that may cause our actual future financial and operating results to differ materially from what we currently expect.

The information included in this Financial Outlook for 2023 is preliminary, unaudited and based on estimates and information available to us at this time. TORM has not finalized its financial statements for the periods presented. During the course of the financial statement closing process, TORM may identify items that would require it to make adjustments, which may be material to the information provided in this section. As mentioned above, the provided information constitutes forward-looking statements and is subject to risks and uncertainties, including possible adjustments to the financial outlook for 2023.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

7

Coverage 2023-2025

Total earning and covered days in TORM as of 14 August 2023

The coverage figures include FFA positions.

As of 30 June 2023, the market value of TORM's Forward Freight Agreements and bunker swaps that are accounted for through the profit and loss statement are assessed at a total of USD 21.2m. This included 1,698 days related to MR vessels at a rate of USD/day 40,566 and 977 days related to LR1 vessels at a rate of USD/day 45,114. Split into quarters, the exposure for MR is: 660 days at USD/day 40,334 in Q3 2023, 660 days at USD/day 40,485 in Q4 2023 and 377 days at USD/day 41,114 in Q1 2024. For LR1 the exposure is: 456 days at USD/day 44,900 in Q3 2023, 456 days at USD/day 45,186 in Q4 2023 and 65 days at USD/day 46,108 in Q1 2024. As of 14 August 2023, TORM has covered 744 days of the remainder of Q3 2023 through FFA and bunker swap positions at USD/day 42,267. As of 14 August 2023, the market value of TORM's FFA and bunker swaps are assessed at a total of USD 17.3m.

                   Q3 2023 Q4 2023 FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2025
Total earning days                                  
LR2                1,191   1,189   4,526   4,702   4,641
LR1                1,265   1,217   4,489   4,968   4,878
MR                 5,230   5,184   20,444  21,213  20,864
Total              7,685   7,591   29,459  30,882  30,383
                                                    
Covered days                                        
LR2                833     4       2,991   0       0
LR1                1,114   456     3,579   65      0
MR                 3,722   774     14,522  521     0
Total              5,669   1,234   21,092  586     -
                        Q3 2023 Q4 2023 FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2025
Covered, %                                               
LR2                     70%     0.3%    66%     0%      0%
LR1                     88%     38%     80%     1%      0%
MR                      71%     15%     71%     3%      0%
Total                   74%     16%     72%     2%      0%
                                                         
Coverage rates, USD/day                                  
LR2                     32,579  47,345  50,090  0       0
LR1                     29,626  45,186  36,342  46,108  0
MR                      30,349  39,609  33,785  40,503  0
Total                   30,534  41,693  36,531  41,125  -
Actual no. of days can vary from projected no. of days primarily due to vessel sales and delays of vessel deliveries.

Total available earning days are defined as total calendar days less off-hire days.

The FFA position is covering two trades, all carrying clean products. The first is a triangulation route from the European Continent to the US Atlantic Cost (TC2), followed by a backhaul and from the US Gulf back to the European Continent (TC14) for the MR fleet. The second is a round trip and from the Middle East Gulf to Japan (TC5) and back for the LR1 fleet. Both trades are representative of their segment and the geographical location and are supported by adequate trading volumes in the futures market.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

8

Earnings data

USDm                                                                                                Q2 2022 Q3 2022 Q4 2022 Q1 2023 Q2 2023 Change Q2 22 - Q2 23
LR2 vessels                                                                                                                                  
Available earning days1)                                                                            1,306   1,184   1,096   1,071   1,074   -18%
Spot rates 2⁾                                                                                       39,027  52,595  64,485  65,245  48,775  25%
TCE per earning day 3⁾                                                                              30,741  55,532  58,889  65,551  47,918  56%
Calendar days                                                                                       1,331   1,220   1,196   1,170   1,183   -11%
Operating expenses per calendar day                                                                 6,961   7,196   7,469   7,637   7,490   8%
LR1 vessels                                                                                                                                  
Available earning days1)                                                                            691     685     621     758     1,249   81%
Spot rates 2⁾                                                                                       36,535  51,089  50,287  44,141  35,060  -4%
TCE per earning day 3⁾                                                                              33,269  51,102  48,067  42,047  36,674  10%
Calendar days                                                                                       729     736     736     810     1,277   75%
Operating expenses per calendar day                                                                 6,588   6,640   7,236   6,709   7,534   14%
MR vessels                                                                                                                                   
Available earning days1)                                                                            5,309   5,161   5,138   4,903   5,127   -3%
Spot rates 2⁾                                                                                       34,115  43,284  47,876  37,058  33,336  -2%
TCE per earning day 3⁾                                                                              29,174  40,968  45,029  36,461  33,862  16%
Calendar days                                                                                       5,347   5,315   5,244   5,130   5,306   -1%
Operating expenses per calendar day                                                                 6,808   7,055   6,901   7,314   6,839   0%
Handy vessels                                                                                                                                
Available earning days1)                                                                            92      6       -       -       -       -100%
Spot rates 2⁾                                                                                       12,602  12,505  -       -       -       -100%
TCE per earning day 3⁾                                                                              12,196  6,397   -       -       -       -100%
Calendar days                                                                                       103     7       -       -       -       -100%
Operating expenses per calendar day                                                                 6,455   11,462  -       -       -       -100%
Tanker segment                                                                                                                               
Available earning days1)                                                                            7,398   7,035   6,855   6,732   7,451   1%
Spot rates 2⁾                                                                                       34,844  45,646  50,818  42,476  35,875  3%
TCE per earning day 3⁾                                                                              29,622  44,376  47,520  41,717  36,360  23%
Calendar days                                                                                       7,510   7,278   7,176   7,110   7,766   3%
Operating expenses per calendar day                                                                 6,809   7,041   7,030   7,299   7,053   4%
1)Total available earning days = Total calendar days less off-hire days2 ⁾ Spot rates = Time Charter Equivalent Earnings for all charters with less than six months' duration. 
3) TCE = Time Charter Equivalent Earnings. Please refer to the glossary on pages 31-36 for definitions.                                         
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

9

TORM fleet development

The table shows TORM's operating fleet. In addition to 57 owned

product tankers, TORM had 30 vessels under sale-and-leaseback

agreements with options to buy back the vessels as of 30 June 2023

(financially reported as owned vessels in accordance with our

accounting policies).

During Q2 2023, TORM took delivery of two LR1 vessels including

TORM Evelyn and TORM Evolve and three MR vessels including TORM

Beatrice, TORM Birgitte and TORM Belis. In addition, TORM sold one

LR1 vessel (TORM Sara) that was delivered to its new owner in Q2

2023.

During Q2 2023, TORM completed our refinancing transaction, as

announced earlier in Q1 2023. As a result of the transaction, five

leased MR vessels (TORM Titan, TORM Australia, TORM New Zealand,

TORM Singapore and TORM Malaysia) will be refinanced to debt

financing in August and September. Further, the MR vessel TORM

Torino that was previously leased was refinanced with bank financing

early August 2023,

In the first part of July TORM sold one MR vessel (TORM Freya) which

is expected to be delivered to its new owner in August 2023. The

vessel was held for sale at the end of Q2 2023.

TORM expects to operate a total of 86 vessels by the end of Q3 2023.

TORM fleet development

Q1 2023

Changes

Q2 2023

Changes

Q3 2023

Changes

FY 2023

Owned vessels

LR2

7

-

7

7

-

7

LR1

8

-1

7

-

7

-

7

MR

40

3

43

5

48

-

48

Total

55

2

57

5

62

-

62

Leaseback vessels

LR2

6

-

6

-

6

-

6

LR1

5

2

7

-

7

-

7

MR

17

-

17

-6

11

-

11

Total

28

2

30

-6

24

-

24

Total fleet

83

4

87

-1

86

-

86

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

10

Responsibility statement

We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:

The condensed consolidated set of financial statements has been prepared in accordance with IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting ("IAS 34") as adopted in the UK and also in accordance with IAS 34 as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") and IAS 34 as adopted by the EU, as applied to the financial periods beginning on or after 01 January 2023 and additional Danish disclosure requirements for interim reports of listed companies

• The interim report gives a true and fair view of the Group's financial position as of 30 June 2023 as well as of the Group's financial performance and cash flow for the period 01 January - 30 June 2023.

• The interim management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Group's business and of the financial position as a whole and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties for the remaining six months of 2023.

• The interim management report includes a fair review of the material related party transactions which have taken place in the period and material changes to those described in the last annual report.

By order of the Board of Directors

Jacob Meldgaard

Executive Director

17 August 2023

Disclaimer

The interim report has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Group's strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed. The interim report should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.

The interim report contains certain forward-looking statements. These statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report. Such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking statements.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

11

Safe harbor statement as to the future

Matters discussed in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides safe harbor protections for forward-looking statements in order to encourage companies to provide prospective information about their business. Forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance and may include statements concerning plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance, and underlying assumptions and other statements, which are other than statements of historical facts. The Company desires to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and is including this cautionary statement in connection with this safe harbor legislation. Words such as, but not limited to, "believe", "anticipate", "intend", "estimate", "forecast", "project", "plan", "potential", "may", "should", "expect", "pending" and similar expressions or phrases may identify forward-looking statements.

The forward-looking statements in this release are based upon various assumptions, many of which are, in turn, based upon further assumptions, including without limitation, management's examination of historical operating trends, data contained in our records and other data available from third parties.

Although the Company believes that these assumptions were reasonable when made, because these assumptions are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies that are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond our control, the Company cannot guarantee that it will achieve or accomplish these expectations, beliefs, or projections.

Important factors that, in our view, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our future operating or financial results; changes in governmental rules and regulations or actions taken by regulatory authorities; the central bank policies intended to combat overall inflation and rising interest rates and foreign exchange rates; inflationary pressure; increased cost of capital or limited access to funding due to EU Taxonomy or relevant territorial taxonomy regulations; general domestic and

international political conditions or events, including "trade wars" and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, including the end of the conflict; changes in economic and competitive conditions affecting our business, including market fluctuations in charter rates and charterers' abilities to perform under existing time charters; changes in the supply and demand for vessels comparable to ours and the number of newbuildings under construction; the highly cyclical nature of the industry that we operate in; the loss of a large customer or significant business relationship; changes in worldwide oil production and consumption and storage; risks associated with any future vessel construction; our expectations regarding the availability of vessel acquisitions and our ability to complete acquisition transactions planned; availability of skilled crew members other employees and the related labor costs; work stoppages or other labor disruptions by our employees or the employees of other companies in related industries; the impact of increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors, lenders and other market participants with respect to our ESG policies; Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or other applicable regulations relating to bribery; effects of new products and new technology in our industry, including the potential for technological innovation to reduce the value of our vessels and charter income derived therefrom; new environmental regulations and restrictions, whether at a global level stipulated by the International Maritime Organization, and/or imposed by regional or national authorities such as the European Union or individual countries; the impact of an interruption in or failure of our information technology and communications systems, including the impact of cyber-attacks, upon our ability to operate; potential conflicts of interest involving members of our board of directors and senior management; the failure of counterparties to fully perform their contracts with us; changes in credit risk with respect to our counterparties on contracts; our dependence on key personnel and our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; adequacy of insurance coverage; our ability to obtain indemnities from customers; changes in laws, treaties or regulations; our incorporation under the laws of England and Wales and the different rights to relief that may be available compared to other countries, including the United States; government requisition of our vessels during a period of war or emergency; the arrest of our vessels by maritime claimants; any further changes in U.S. trade policy that could trigger retaliatory

actions by the affected countries; potential disruption of shipping routes due to accidents, climate-related incidents, environmental factors, political events, public health threats, acts by terrorists or acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels; the impact of adverse weather and natural disasters; damage to storage and receiving facilities; potential liability from future litigation and potential costs due to environmental damage and vessel collisions; and the length and number of off-hire periods and dependence on third-party managers.

In the light of these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements contained in this release because they are statements about events that are not certain to occur as described or at all. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of our future performance, and actual results and future developments may vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.

Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, the Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions or updates to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Please see TORM's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a more complete discussion of certain of these and other risks and uncertainties. The information set forth herein speaks only as of the date hereof, and the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this communication.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

12

Condensed consolidated income statement

USDm                                                                              Note Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Revenue                                                                                384.3   338.5   774.5      547.9      1,443.4
Port expenses, bunkers, commissions, and other cost of goods and services sold         -74.1   -128.9  -196.3     -214.9     -459.5
Operating expenses                                                                1    -54.8   -51.1   -106.7     -100.4     -202.1
Profit from sale of vessels                                                       2    3.5     0.8     3.5        0.8        10.2
Administrative expenses                                                           1, 2 -21.9   -12.5   -39.5      -25.9      -55.0
Other operating income and expenses                                                    -0.2    6.7     -0.1       6.4        5.8
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures                                             -       -0.1    -          -0.1       0.2
Operating profit before depreciation, amortization and impairment losses (EBITDA)      236.8   153.4   435.4      213.8      743.0
                                                                                                                              
Impairment losses on tangible assets                                              2    -       -0.2    -          -2.8       -2.6
Depreciation and amortization                                                     2    -37.0   -34.5   -72.1      -69.7      -139.0
Operating profit (EBIT)                                                                199.8   118.7   363.3      141.3      601.4
                                                                                                                              
Financial income                                                                       2.6     0.3     6.7        0.3        4.1
Financial expenses                                                                     -18.0   -12.0   -30.5      -23.9      -48.8
Profit before tax                                                                      184.4   107.0   339.5      117.7      556.7
                                                                                                                              
Tax                                                                                    1.0     -0.4    -0.4       -0.7       5.9
Net profit for the period                                                              185.4   106.6   339.1      117.0      562.6
                                                                                                                              
Net profit for the period attributable to:                                                                                    
TORM plc shareholders                                                                  185.8   106.6   339.4      117.0      562.8
Non-controlling interest                                                               -0.4    -       -0.3       -          -0.2
Net profit for the period                                                              185.4   106.6   339.1      117.0      562.6
                                                                                                                              
Earnings per share                                                                                                            
Basic earnings per share (USD)                                                    6    2.23    1.31    4.10       1.44       6.92
Diluted earnings per share (USD)                                                  6    2.14    1.31    3.95       1.44       6.80
                                                                                                                              
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

13

Condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income

USDm                                                                                                Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
                                                                                                                                           
Net profit for the year                                                                             185.4   106.6   339.1      117.0      562.6
                                                                                                                                           
Other comprehensive income:                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                           
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:                                                                                          
Exchange rate adjustment arising from translation of entities using a functional currency different from USD-0.4    -0.2    -0.3       -0.3       -0.5
Reclassification of exchange rate adjustments on disposal of joint venture                          -       -       -          -          0.1
Fair value adjustment on hedging instruments                                                        12.5    8.0     6.3        35.0       54.8
Fair value adjustment on hedging instruments transferred to income statement                        -5.4    1.3     -10.2      4.3        1.7
Tax on other comprehensive income                                                                   -1.8    -       0.9        -          -13.2
Other comprehensive income after tax                                                                4.9     9.1     -3.3       39.0       42.9
                                                                                                                                           
Total comprehensive income for the period                                                           190.3   115.7   335.8      156.0      605.5
                                                                                                                                           
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to:                                                                                 
TORM plc shareholders                                                                               190.9   115.7   336.3      156.0      605.6
Non-controlling interest                                                                            -0.6    -       -0.5       -          -0.1
Total comprehensive income for the period                                                           190.3   115.7   335.8      156.0      605.5
                                                                                                                                           
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

14

Condensed consolidated balance sheet

                                                     30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                            Note 2023    2022    2022
ASSETS                                                                
Non-current Assets                                                    
Intangible assets                                                     
Goodwill                                             1.8     -       1.8
Other intangible assets                              1.8     -       2.0
Total intangible assets                              3.6     -       3.8
Tangible fixed assets                                                 
Land and buildings                                   5.3     3.7     3.8
Vessels and capitalized dry-docking             2    2,149.4 1,836.8 1,855.9
Prepayments on vessels                          3    4.4     4.3     -
Other plant and operating equipment                  4.8     5.6     5.6
Total tangible fixed assets                          2,163.9 1,850.4 1,865.3
Financial assets                                                      
Investments in joint ventures                        -       1.3     0.1
Loan receivables                                     4.6     4.6     4.6
Deferred tax asset                                   0.3     0.6     0.5
Other investments                                    -       0.4     0.2
Total financial assets                               4.9     6.9     5.4
Total non-current assets                             2,172.4 1,857.3 1,874.5
Current Assets                                                        
Inventories                                          66.9    78.3    72.0
Trade receivables                                    226.3   171.9   259.5
Other receivables                                    102.8   77.3    74.0
Prepayments                                          12.4    9.4     10.4
Cash and cash equivalents incl. restricted cash      269.0   157.7   323.8
Current assets, excl. assets held-for-sale           677.4   494.6   739.7
Assets held-for-sale                            2    10.8    69.2    -
Total current assets                                 688.2   563.8   739.7
Total Assets                                         2,860.6 2,421.1 2,614.2
                                                          30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                                 Note 2023    2022    2022
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                                                     
Equity                                                                     
Common shares                                             0.8     0.8     0.8
Share premium                                             222.1   165.2   167.5
Treasury shares                                           -4.2    -4.2    -4.2
Hedging reserves                                          36.9    35.7    39.9
Translation reserves                                      -0.6    -0.1    -0.5
Retained profit                                           1,309.4 1,017.3 1,297.8
Equity attributable to TORM plc shareholders              1,564.4 1,214.7 1,501.3
Non-controlling interests                                 1.9     -       2.4
Total equity                                              1,566.3 1,214.7 1,503.7
LIABILITIES                                                                
Non-current Liabilities                                                    
Non-current tax liability related to held-over gains      45.2    45.2    45.2
Deferred tax liability                                    4.6     -       6.1
Borrowings                                           4    856.2   910.7   849.8
Other non-current liabilities                             2.9     -       3.0
Total non-current liabilities                             908.9   955.9   904.1
Current Liabilities                                                        
Borrowings                                           4    297.5   133.6   117.1
Trade payables                                            38.5    50.1    48.5
Current tax liabilities                                   1.3     1.1     2.0
Other liabilities                                         40.5    53.7    31.1
Provisions                                           7    6.8     12.0    6.8
Deferred income                                           0.8     -       0.9
Total current liabilities                                 385.4   250.5   206.4
Total liabilities                                         1,294.3 1,206.4 1,110.5
Total Equity and Liabilities                              2,860.6 2,421.1 2,614.2
Note 5 and 8-12 on pages 24 to 27                                          
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

15

Condensed consolidated statement of changes in equity

01 January-30 June

USDm                                             Common shares Share premium Treasury shares Hedging reserves Translation reserves Retained profit Equity attributable to shareholders of TORM plc Non-controlling interest Total
Equity as of 01 January 2023                     0.8           167.5         -4.2            39.9             -0.5                 1,297.8         1,501.3                                         2.4                      1,503.7
Comprehensive income/loss for the period                                                                                                                                                                                     
Net profit for the period                        -             -             -               -                -                    339.4           339.4                                           -0.3                     339.1
Other comprehensive income for the period        -             -             -               -3.9             -0.1                 -               -4.0                                            -0.2                     -4.2
Tax on other comprehensive income                -             -             -               0.9              -                    -               0.9                                             -                        0.9
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period -             -             -               -3.0             -0.1                 339.4           336.3                                           -0.5                     335.8
Capital increase ¹⁾                              -             54.7          -               -                -                    -               54.7                                            -                        54.7
Transaction costs of capital increase            -             -0.1          -               -                -                    -               -0.1                                                                     -0.1
Share-based compensation                         -             -             -               -                -                    8.8             8.8                                             -                        8.8
Paid dividend                                    -             -             -               -                -                    -336.6          -336.6                                          -                        -336.6
Total changes in equity for the period           -             54.6          -               -3.0             -0.1                 11.6            63.1                                            -0.5                     62.6
Equity as of 30 June 2023                        0.8           222.1         -4.2            36.9             -0.6                 1,309.4         1,564.4                                         1.9                      1,566.3
¹⁾ During the year, the share capital was increased amounting to USD 6.2m as a result of the exercise of Restricted Share Units and 48.5m from a non-cash issue in relation to purchase of three vessels.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
USDm                                                                                                Common shares Share premium Treasury shares Hedging reserves Translation reserves Retained profit Equity attributable to shareholders of TORM plc Non-controlling interest Total
Equity as of 01 January 2022                                                                        0.8           159.8         -4.2            -3.6             0.2                  899.2           1,052.2                                         -                        1,052.2
Comprehensive income/(loss) for the period:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Net profit/(loss) for the period                                                                    -             -             -               -                -                    117.0           117.0                                           -                        117.0
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period                                                    -             -             -               39.3             -0.3                 -               39.0                                            -                        39.0
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period                                                    -             -             -               39.3             -0.3                 117.0           156.0                                           -                        156.0
Capital increase ¹⁾                                                                                 -             5.4           -               -                -                    -               5.4                                             -                        5.4
Share-based compensation                                                                            -             -             -               -                -                    1.1             1.1                                             -                        1.1
Total changes in equity for the period                                                              -             5.4           -               39.3             -0.3                 118.1           162.5                                           -                        162.5
Equity as of 30 June 2022                                                                           0.8           165.2         -4.2            35.7             -0.1                 1,017.3         1,214.7                                         -                        1,214.7
¹⁾ During the year, the share capital was increased amounting to USD 5.4m as a result of the exercise of Restricted Share Units.               
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

16

Condensed consolidated cash flow statement

USDm                                                  Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Cash flow from operating activities                                          
Net profit for the year                               339.1      117.0      562.6
                                                                             
Reversals:                                                                   
Profit from sale of vessels                           -3.5       -0.8       -10.2
Depreciation and amortization                         72.1       69.7       139.0
Impairment losses on tangible assets                  -          2.8        2.6
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures            -          0.1        -0.2
Financial income                                      -6.7       -0.3       -4.1
Financial expenses                                    30.5       23.9       48.8
Tax expenses                                          0.4        0.7        -5.9
Other non-cash movements                              -12.4      6.0        -3.6
                                                                             
Interest received and realized exchange gains         6.7        0.1        4.0
Interest paid and realized exchange losses            -32.4      -26.1      -49.6
Income taxes paid                                     -1.5       -0.3       -0.7
Change in inventories, receivables and payables, etc. 15.0       -103.8     -180.9
                                                                             
Net cash flow from operating activities               407.3      89.0       501.9
                                                                             
USDm                                                               Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Cash flow from investing activities                                                       
Investment in tangible fixed assets¹⁾                              -333.6     -59.6      -119.3
Investment in intangible fixed assets                              -0.2       -          -0.6
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired                  -          -          1.1
Sale of tangible fixed assets                                      16.0       42.9       106.6
Change in restricted cash                                          -26.6      2.5        23.5
                                                                                          
Net cash flow from investing activities                            -344.4     -14.2      11.3
                                                                                          
Cash flow from financing activities                                                       
Proceeds, borrowings                                               439.5      58.2       96.3
Repayment, borrowings                                              -253.2     -149.9     -275.1
Dividend paid                                                      -336.6     -          -166.7
Capital increase¹⁾                                                 6.2        5.4        8.0
                                                                                          
Net cash flow from financing activities                            -144.2     -86.3      -337.5
                                                                                          
Net cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities   -81.3      -11.5      175.7
                                                                                          
Cash and cash equivalents beginning balance                        320.5      144.8      144.8
Cash and cash equivalents ending balance                           239.1      133.3      320.5
Restricted cash equivalents ending balance                         29.9       24.4       3.3
Cash and cash equivalents including restricted cash ending balance 269.0      157.7      323.8
¹⁾ During 2023 share capital was increased by USD 54.7m including a USD 48.5m non-cash share issue in relation to purchase of three vessels.
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

17

Segment reporting - condensed consolidated income statement

                                                                                  Q2 2023       Q2 2022
USDm                                                                              Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total
Revenue                                                                           375.0         11.8                 -2.5                      384.3 338.5         -                    -                         338.5
Port expenses, bunkers and commissions                                            -67.0         -                    -                         -67.0 -128.9        -                    -                         -128.9
Other cost of goods and services sold                                             -             -8.6                 1.5                       -7.1  -             -                    -                         -
Operating expenses                                                                -54.8         -                    -                         -54.8 -51.1         -                    -                         -51.1
Profit from sale of vessels                                                       3.5           -                    -                         3.5   0.8           -                    -                         0.8
Administrative expenses                                                           -19.2         -2.7                 -                         -21.9 -12.5         -                    -                         -12.5
Other operating income and expenses                                               -0.2          -                    -                         -0.2  6.7           -                    -                         6.7
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures                                        -             -                    -                         -     -0.1          -                    -                         -0.1
Operating profit before depreciation, amortization and impairment losses (EBITDA) 237.3         0.5                  -1.0                      236.8 153.4         -                    -                         153.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Impairment losses on tangible assets                                              -             -                    -                         -     -0.2          -                    -                         -0.2
Depreciation and amortization                                                     -36.7         -0.3                 -                         -37.0 -34.5         -                    -                         -34.5
Operating profit (EBIT)                                                           200.6         0.2                  -1.0                      199.8 118.7         -                    -                         118.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Financial income                                                                  2.6           -                    -                         2.6   0.3           -                    -                         0.3
Financial expenses                                                                -17.9         -0.1                 -                         -18.0 -12.0         -                    -                         -12.0
Profit before tax                                                                 185.3         0.1                  -1.0                      184.4 107.0         -                    -                         107.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Tax                                                                               1.0           -                    -                         1.0   -0.4          -                    -                         -0.4
Net profit for the period                                                         186.3         0.1                  -1.0                      185.4 106.6         -                    -                         106.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

18

Segment reporting - condensed consolidated income statement

                                                                                  Q1-Q2 2023    Q1-Q2 2022           FY 2022
USDm                                                                              Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total  Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total  Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total
Revenue                                                                           758.8         21.2                 -5.5                      774.5  547.9         -                    -                         547.9  1,440.4       5.9                  -2.9                      1,443.4
Port expenses, bunkers and commissions                                            -185.9        -                    -                         -185.9 -214.9        -                    -                         -214.9 -458.9        -                    -                         -458.9
Other cost of goods and services sold                                             -             -14.2                3.8                       -10.4  -             -                    -                         -      -             -3.0                 2.4                       -0.6
Operating expenses                                                                -106.7        -                    -                         -106.7 -100.4        -                    -                         -100.4 -202.1        -                    -                         -202.1
Profit from sale of vessels                                                       3.5           -                    -                         3.5    0.8           -                    -                         0.8    10.2          -                    -                         10.2
Administrative expenses                                                           -34.1         -5.4                 -                         -39.5  -25.9         -                    -                         -25.9  -52.4         -2.6                 -                         -55.0
Other operating income and expenses                                               -0.2          0.1                  -                         -0.1   6.4           -                    -                         6.4    5.8           -                    -                         5.8
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures                                        -             -                    -                         -      -0.1          -                    -                         -0.1   0.2           -                    -                         0.2
Operating profit before depreciation, amortization and impairment losses (EBITDA) 435.4         1.7                  -1.7                      435.4  213.8         -                    -                         213.8  743.2         0.3                  -0.5                      743.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Impairment losses on tangible assets                                              -             -                    -                         -      -2.8          -                    -                         -2.8   -2.6          -                    -                         -2.6
Depreciation and amortization                                                     -71.5         -0.6                 -                         -72.1  -69.7         -                    -                         -69.7  -138.7        -0.3                 -                         -139.0
Operating profit (EBIT)                                                           363.9         1.1                  -1.7                      363.3  141.3         -                    -                         141.3  601.9         -                    -0.5                      601.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Financial income                                                                  6.7           -                    -                         6.7    0.3           -                    -                         0.3    4.0           0.1                  -                         4.1
Financial expenses                                                                -30.3         -0.2                 -                         -30.5  -23.9         -                    -                         -23.9  -48.7         -0.1                 -                         -48.8
Profit before tax                                                                 340.3         0.9                  -1.7                      339.5  117.7         -                    -                         117.7  557.2         -                    -0.5                      556.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Tax                                                                               -0.5          0.1                  -                         -0.4   -0.7          -                    -                         -0.7   5.9           -                    -                         5.9
Net profit for the period                                                         339.8         1.0                  -1.7                      339.1  117.0         -                    -                         117.0  563.1         -                    -0.5                      562.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

19

Segment reporting - condensed consolidated balance sheet

                                                30 June 2023  30 June 2022         31 December 2022
USDm                                            Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total   Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total   Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total
ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Non-current Assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Intangible assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Goodwill                                        -             1.8                  -                         1.8     -             -                    -                         -       -             1.8                  -                         1.8
Other intangible assets                         0.7           1.1                  -                         1.8     -             -                    -                         -       0.7           1.3                  -                         2.0
Total intangible assets                         0.7           2.9                  -                         3.6     -             -                    -                         -       0.7           3.1                  -                         3.8
Tangible fixed assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Land and buildings                              4.5           0.8                  -                         5.3     3.7           -                    -                         3.7     2.8           1.0                  -                         3.8
Vessels and capitalized dry-docking             2,160.1       -                    -10.7                     2,149.4 1,836.8       -                    -                         1,836.8 1,863.4       -                    -7.5                      1,855.9
Prepayments on vessels                          -             4.9                  -0.5                      4.4     4.3           -                    -                         4.3     -             -                    -                         -
Other plant and operating equipment             3.5           1.3                  -                         4.8     5.6           -                    -                         5.6     4.1           1.5                  -                         5.6
Total tangible fixed assets                     2,168.1       7.0                  -11.2                     2,163.9 1,850.4       -                    -                         1,850.4 1,870.3       2.5                  -7.5                      1,865.3
Financial assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Investments in joint ventures                   -             -                    -                         -       1.3           -                    -                         1.3     0.1           -                    -                         0.1
Loan receivables                                4.6           -                    -                         4.6     4.6           -                    -                         4.6     4.6           -                    -                         4.6
Deferred tax asset                              0.3           -                    -                         0.3     0.6           -                    -                         0.6     0.5           -                    -                         0.5
Other investments                               -             -                    -                         -       0.4           -                    -                         0.4     0.2           -                    -                         0.2
Total financial assets                          4.9           -                    -                         4.9     6.9           -                    -                         6.9     5.4           -                    -                         5.4
Total non-current assets                        2,173.7       9.9                  -11.2                     2,172.4 1,857.3       -                    -                         1,857.3 1,876.4       5.6                  -7.5                      1,874.5
Current Assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Inventories                                     61.1          5.8                  -                         66.9    78.3          -                    -                         78.3    61.1          11.0                 -0.1                      72.0
Trade receivables                               221.3         5.2                  -0.2                      226.3   171.9         -                    -                         171.9   255.7         4.2                  -0.4                      259.5
Other receivables                               100.6         2.2                  -                         102.8   77.3          -                    -                         77.3    72.7          1.3                  -                         74.0
Prepayments                                     10.1          2.3                  -                         12.4    9.4           -                    -                         9.4     9.7           0.7                  -                         10.4
Cash and cash equivalents incl. restricted cash 264.9         4.1                  -                         269.0   157.7         -                    -                         157.7   321.4         2.4                  -                         323.8
Current assets, excl. assets held-for-sale      658.0         19.6                 -0.2                      677.4   494.6         -                    -                         494.6   720.6         19.6                 -0.5                      739.7
Assets held-for-sale                            10.8          -                    -                         10.8    69.2          -                    -                         69.2    -             -                    -                         -
Total current assets                            668.8         19.6                 -0.2                      688.2   563.8         -                    -                         563.8   720.6         19.6                 -0.5                      739.7
Total Assets                                    2,842.5       29.5                 -11.4                     2,860.6 2,421.1       -                    -                         2,421.1 2,597.0       25.2                 -8.0                      2,614.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

20

Segment reporting - condensed consolidated balance sheet

                                                     30 June 2023  30 June 2022         31 December 2022
USDm                                                 Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total   Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total   Tankersegment MarineExhaustsegment Inter-segment elimination Total
Total equity                                         1,561.7       6.8                  -2.2                      1,566.3 1,214.7       -                    -                         1,214.7 1,498.0       6.2                  -0.5                      1,503.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Non-current Liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Non-current tax liability related to held-over gains 45.2          -                    -                         45.2    45.2          -                    -                         45.2    45.2          -                    -                         45.2
Deferred tax liability                               4.3           0.3                  -                         4.6     -             -                    -                         -       5.8           0.3                  -                         6.1
Borrowings                                           852.6         3.6                  -                         856.2   910.7         -                    -                         910.7   844.6         5.2                  -                         849.8
Other non-current liabilities                        2.4           0.5                  -                         2.9     -             -                    -                         -       2.2           0.8                  -                         3.0
Total non-current liabilities                        904.5         4.4                  -                         908.9   955.9         -                    -                         955.9   897.8         6.3                  -                         904.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Current Liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Borrowings                                           293.4         4.1                  -                         297.5   133.6         -                    -                         133.6   115.7         1.3                  -                         117.1
Trade payables                                       35.7          3.4                  -0.6                      38.5    50.1          -                    -                         50.1    46.4          3.5                  -1.4                      48.5
Current tax liabilities                              1.3           -                    -                         1.3     1.1           -                    -                         1.1     1.6           0.4                  -                         2.0
Other liabilities                                    39.4          1.1                  -                         40.5    53.7          -                    -                         53.7    31.0          0.3                  -0.2                      31.1
Provisions                                           6.5           0.3                  -                         6.8     12.0          -                    -                         12.0    6.5           0.3                  -                         6.8
Deferred income                                      -             9.4                  -8.6                      0.8     -             -                    -                         -       -             6.8                  -5.9                      0.9
Total current liabilities                            376.3         18.3                 -9.2                      385.4   250.5         -                    -                         250.5   201.2         12.7                 -7.5                      206.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Total liabilities                                    1,280.8       22.7                 -9.2                      1,294.3 1,206.4       -                    -                         1,206.4 1,099.0       19.0                 -7.5                      1,110.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Total Equity and Liabilities                         2,842.5       29.5                 -11.4                     2,860.6 2,421.1       -                    -                         2,421.1 2,597.0       25.2                 -8.0                      2,614.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

21

NOTE 1 - STAFF COSTS

USDm                                Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
                                                                           
Included in operating expenses      2.1     1.9     4.2        4.2        7.7
Included in administrative expenses 18.7    9.5     32.7       20.3       42.0
Total staff costs                   20.8    11.4    36.9       24.5       49.7
                                                                           
NOTE 2 - VESSELS AND CAPITALIZED DRY-DOCKING

Included in the carrying amount for "Vessels and capitalized dry-docking" are capitalized dry-docking costs in the amount of USD 63.5m (30 June 2022: USD 50.6m, 31 December 2022: USD 50.1m).

The depreciation for the six months ended 30 June 2023 related to "Other plant and operating equipment" of USD 1.7m (30 June 2022: USD 1.2m, 31 December 2022: USD 2.8m) and "Land and buildings" of USD 1.2m (30 June 2022: USD 1.1m, 31 December 2022: USD 2.3m) is related to "Administrative expenses".

IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT

For determination of the vessel values, TORM has carried out an impairment indicator assessment and has found no indication of impairment, and therefore, TORM has not reassessed the recoverable amount as of 30 June 2023.

ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

During the first six months of 2023, TORM sold one vessel and one vessel was presented as asset held for sale as of 30 June 2022.

NOTE 2 - Continued

                                           30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                       2023    2022    2022
                                                            
Cost:                                                       
Balance as of beginning of period          2,421.2 2,443.3 2,443.3
Additions                                  352.1   14.4    77.2
Disposals                                  -23.0   -1.7    -14.2
Transferred from prepayments               33.0    50.8    55.1
Transferred to assets held-for-sale        -39.1   -172.6  -140.2
Balance                                    2,744.2 2,334.2 2,421.2
                                                            
Depreciation:                                               
Balance as of beginning of period          543.8   475.0   475.0
Disposals                                  -22.7   -1.7    -14.2
Depreciation for the period                69.2    67.3    133.7
Transferred to assets held-for-sale        -16.0   -63.7   -50.7
Balance                                    574.3   476.9   543.8
                                                            
Impairment:                                                 
Balance as of beginning of period          21.5    30.5    30.5
Impairment losses on tangible fixed assets -       2.8     2.7
Transferred to assets held-for-sale        -1.0    -12.8   -11.7
Balance                                    20.5    20.5    21.5
                                                            
Carrying amount                            2,149.4 1,836.8 1,855.9
                                                            
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

22

NOTE 3 - PREPAYMENTS ON VESSELS

                                  30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                              2023    2022    2022
                                                   
Balance as of beginning of period -       12.0    12.0
Additions                         37.4    43.1    43.1
Transferred to vessels            -33.0   -50.8   -55.1
Carrying amount                   4.4     4.3     -
                                                   
NOTE 4 - BORROWINGS

                                                      30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                                  2023    2022    2022
                                                                       
Mortgage debt and bank loans to be repaid as follows:                  
Falling due within one year                           197.3   134.1   117.3
Falling due between one and two years                 166.7   123.0   128.4
Falling due between two and three years               148.5   130.0   126.9
Falling due between three and four years              136.4   210.3   185.6
Falling due between four and five years               225.7   89.1    161.4
Falling due after five years                          286.4   365.7   253.4
Total                                                 1,161.0 1,052.2 973.0
Borrowing costs                                       -13.5   -12.0   -11.1
Right-of-use lease liabilities                        6.2     4.1     5.0
Total borrowings                                      1,153.7 1,044.3 966.9
                                                                       
As of 30 June 2023, TORM was in compliance with the financial covenants. TORM expects to remain in compliance with the financial covenants in the remaining period of 2023.

NOTE 5 - DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

                                                                                30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                                                            2023    2022    2022
Fair value of derivatives:                                                                       
Derivative financial instruments regarding freight and bunkers:                                  
Forward freight agreements - fair value through profit and loss                 26.9    -15.0   -
Bunker swaps - fair value through profit and loss                               -5.7    4.5     -
Bunker swaps - hedge accounting                                                 -0.8    1.7     -
                                                                                                 
Derivative financial instruments regarding interest and currency exchange rate:                  
Forward exchange contracts - hedge accounting                                   0.9     -2.5    0.4
Interest rate swaps - hedge accounting                                          49.2    37.1    53.7
Total                                                                           70.5    25.8    54.1
                                                                                                 
Derivative financial instruments are recognized in the following balance sheet items:

                  30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm              2023    2022    2022
Other receivables 77.1    43.3    54.5
Other liabilities -6.6    -17.5   -0.4
Total             70.5    25.8    54.1
                                   
The fair value hierarchy for the above derivative financial instruments is Level 2.

There are no changes in the methods and assumptions used in determining the fair value of the financial instruments. Please refer to the Annual Report 2022, page 169.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

23

NOTE 6 - EARNINGS PER SHARE

                                                                                     Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
EARNINGS PER SHARE                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                            
Net profit for the year attributable to TORM plc shareholders (USDm)                 185.8   106.6   339.4      117.0      562.8
                                                                                                                            
Million shares                                                                                                              
Weighted average number of shares                                                    84.0    81.7    83.2       81.5       81.8
Weighted average number of treasury shares                                           -0.5    -0.5    -0.5       -0.5       -0.5
Weighted average number of shares outstanding                                        83.5    81.2    82.7       81.0       81.3
Dilutive effect of outstanding share options                                         3.2     0.2     3.2        0.2        1.5
Weighted average number of shares outstanding incl. dilutive effect of share options 86.7    81.4    85.9       81.2       82.8
                                                                                                                            
Basic earnings per share (USD)                                                       2.23    1.31    4.10       1.44       6.92
Diluted earnings per share (USD)                                                     2.14    1.31    3.95       1.44       6.80
                                                                                                                            
NOTE 7 - PROVISIONS

In 2020, TORM became involved in cargo claims relating to a customer having granted indemnities for discharge of cargoes, and not being able to honor those obligations. The cases involved irregular activities by the customer. Legal action was initiated by TORM in the UK and in India against the customer and related individuals. TORM has recognized provisions amounting to USD 6.5m as of 30 June 2023 relating to the case complex (30 June 2022: USD 12.0m, 31 December 2022: USD 6.5m). Legal proceedings are still ongoing and therefore the provisions recognized are subject to uncertainty relating to both timing and amount.

NOTE 8 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

TORM is involved in certain legal proceedings and disputes. It is Management's opinion that the outcome of these proceedings and disputes will not have any material impact on TORM's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

NOTE 9 - CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS

As of 30 June 2023, TORM had contractual obligations regarding scrubber investments and other minor commitments of USD 16.7m (30 June 2022: USD 13.2m, 31 December 2022: USD 18.4m).

As of 30 June 2023, TORM had contractual obligations regarding second-hand vessels of USD 0.0m (30 June 2022: USD 36.0m, 31 December 2022: USD 0.0m).

NOTE 10 - POST BALANCE SHEET DATE EVENTS

After the reporting date, TORM's Board of Directors has decided to declare a dividend of USD 1.50 per share, with an expected total dividend payment of USD 126.6m. The distribution is in line with TORM's Distribution Policy with cash position (USD +269.0m), Working Capital Facilities (USD +100.0m), restricted cash (USD -29.9m) and earmarked proceeds (USD -52.0m) and a cash position related to Marine Exhaust (USD -4.1m). Cash reservation per vessel is USD 1.8m or for 87 vessels USD 156.6m in total. Payment is expected on 12 September 2023 of shareholder of record on 29 August 2023, with the ex-dividend date on 28 August 2023. The dividends have not been recognized as liabilities and there are no tax consequences.

NOTE 11 - RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

On 01 September 2022, TORM purchased 75% of the shares in Marine Exhaust Technology A/S thereby obtaining a controlling interest in its joint venture entity Marine Exhaust Technology Ltd in Hong Kong. During the six months ended 30 June 2022, TORM's transactions with its joint venture entity producing scrubbers for the TORM fleet covered CAPEX of USD 4.5m in total. During the six months ended 30 June 2023, there have been no related party transactions.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

24

NOTE 12 - ACCOUNTING POLICIES & GOING CONCERN

General information

The information for the year ended 31 December 2022 does not constitute statutory accounts as defined in section 434 of the Companies Act 2006. A copy of the statutory accounts for that year has been delivered to the Registrar of Companies. The auditor's report on those accounts was not qualified, did not include a reference to any matters to which the auditors drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying the report and did not contain statements under section 498(2) or (3) of the Companies Act 2006.

The interim report for the period 01 January-30 June 2023 is not audited or reviewed.

Significant accounting policies

The interim report for the period 01 January-30 June 2023 is presented in accordance with IAS 34 "Interim Financial Reporting" ("IAS 34") as adopted in the UK. The interim financial statements are also prepared in accordance with IAS 34 as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") and IAS 34 as adopted by the EU, as applied to financial periods beginning on or after 01 January 2023 and the additional Danish disclosure requirements for interim reports of listed companies.

TORM has implemented the following standards and amendments issued by the IASB and adopted by the UK in the consolidated financial statements for 2023:

• IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts

• IAS 12 amendments Deferred Tax related to Assets and liabilities arising from a Single Transaction

• IAS 12 amendments International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules

• IAS 8 amendments Definition of Accounting Estimates

• IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2 amendments Disclosure of Accounting Policies

The amendments on International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules introduce a mandatory exception in IAS 12 'Income Taxes' to recognizing and disclosing information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes. The amendments have been adopted by the UK Endorsement Board but have yet to be endorsed in the EU. The operation of the Pillar Two Model Rules is complex and it is unclear whether the Pillar Two Model Rules create additional temporary differences, whether to remeasure deferred taxes for the Pillar Two model rules and how to determine the tax rate for measuring deferred taxes. Accordingly, TORM has concluded that not accounting for deferred taxes related to Pillar Two income taxes would result in the most appropriate accounting policy pending the completion of the EU endorsement process. TORM is currently assessing the future impact of these rules upon the financial statements.

For the remaining new standards and amendments, it is assessed that application of these effective on 01 January 2023 has not had any material impact on the consolidated financial statements in 2023. The interim report has been prepared using the same accounting policies and methods of computation as in the Annual Report 2022.

NOTE 12 - Continued

For critical estimates and judgements, please refer to the Annual Report 2022, pages 134-135.

Going concern

TORM monitors its funding position throughout the year to ensure that it has access to sufficient funds to meet its forecast cash requirements, including newbuilding, second-hand vessels and loan commitments, and to monitor compliance with the financial covenants within its loan facilities. As of 30 June 2023, TORM's available liquidity including undrawn facilities was USD 496.7m, including a total cash position of USD 269.0m (including restricted cash of USD 29.9m). TORM's net interest-bearing debt was USD 893.6m, and the net debt loan-to-value ratio was 29.1%. TORM performs sensitivity calculations to reflect different scenarios including, but not limited to, future freight rates and vessel valuations in order to identify risks to future liquidity and covenant compliance and to enable Management to take corrective actions, if required.

The sensitivity calculations are similar to those applied in connection with covenant testing in the Annual Report. The principal risks and uncertainties facing TORM are set out on page 71 in the annual report.

A key element for TORM's financial performance in the going concern period relates to the increased geopolitical risk following Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 and the associated effects on the product tanker market. The changed geopolitical situation has so far been positive for the product tanker market, and TORM's base case assumes that this positive sentiment related to freight rates and vessel values will continue throughout 2023 and Q3 2024. In the base case, TORM has sufficient liquidity and headroom for all the covenant limits.

The Board of Directors has considered TORM's cash flow forecasts and the expected compliance with TORM's financial covenants for a period of not less than 12 months from the date of approval of this interim report. Based on this review, the Board of Directors has a reasonable expectation that, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance and vessel valuations, TORM's will be able to continue in operational existence and comply with its financial covenants for the next 12 months. Accordingly, TORM's continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.

TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

25

Condensed consolidated income statement per quarter

USDm                                                                              Q2 2023 Q1 2023 Q4 2022 Q3 2022 Q2 2022
Revenue                                                                           384.3   390.2   447.4   448.1   338.5
Port expenses, bunkers, commissions, and other cost of goods and services sold    -74.1   -122.1  -114.2  -130.4  -128.9
Operating expenses                                                                -54.8   -51.9   -50.4   -51.3   -51.1
Profit from sale of vessels                                                       3.5     -       0.2     9.2     0.8
Administrative expenses                                                           -21.9   -17.6   -15.7   -13.4   -12.5
Other operating income and expenses                                               -0.2    -0.1    -0.3    -0.3    6.7
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures                                        -       -       -       0.3     -0.1
Operating profit before depreciation, amortization and impairment losses (EBITDA) 236.8   198.5   267.0   262.2   153.4
                                                                                                                   
Impairment losses on tangible assets                                              -       -       -       0.2     -0.2
Depreciation and amortization                                                     -37.0   -35.0   -35.5   -33.8   -34.5
Operating profit (EBIT)                                                           199.8   163.5   231.5   228.6   118.7
                                                                                                                   
Financial income                                                                  2.6     4.1     2.6     1.2     0.3
Financial expenses                                                                -18.0   -12.5   -12.4   -12.5   -12.0
Profit/ before tax                                                                184.4   155.1   221.7   217.3   107.0
                                                                                                                   
Tax                                                                               1.0     -1.5    6.8     -0.2    -0.4
Net profit for the period                                                         185.4   153.6   228.5   217.1   106.6
                                                                                                                   
Earnings per share                                                                                                 
Basic earnings per share (USD)                                                    2.23    1.87    2.80    2.66    1.31
Diluted earnings per share (USD)                                                  2.14    1.80    2.75    2.63    1.31
                                                                                                                   
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

26

Condensed consolidated statement of cash flow per quarter

USDm                                                  Q2 2023 Q1 2023 Q4 2022 Q3 2022 Q2 2022
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES                                                    
Net profit for the year                               185.4   153.6   228.5   217.1   106.6
                                                                                       
Reversals:                                                                             
Profit from sale of vessels                           -3.5    -       -0.2    -9.2    -0.8
Depreciation and amortization                         37.0    35.0    35.5    33.8    34.5
Impairment losses on tangible assets                  -       -       -       -0.2    0.2
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures            -       -       -       -0.3    0.1
Financial income                                      -2.6    -4.1    -2.6    -1.2    -0.3
Financial expenses                                    18.0    12.5    12.4    12.5    12.0
Tax expenses                                          -1.0    1.5     -6.8    0.2     0.4
Other non-cash movements                              -30.7   18.3    -5.2    -4.3    3.6
                                                                                       
Interest received and realized exchange gains         2.6     4.2     2.6     1.3     0.1
Interest paid and realized exchange losses            -19.2   -13.2   -11.4   -12.1   -11.9
Income taxes paid                                     -0.1    -1.4    -0.3    -0.1    -
Change in inventories, receivables and payables, etc. 6.7     8.3     -4.9    -72.2   -73.4
                                                                                       
Net cash flow from operating activities               192.6   214.7   247.6   165.3   71.1
                                                                                       
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

27

Condensed consolidated statement of cash flow per quarter

USDm                                                                Q2 2023 Q1 2023 Q4 2022 Q3 2022 Q2 2022
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES                                                                  
Investment in tangible fixed assets¹⁾                               -118.5  -215.1  -12.6   -47.1   -12.7
Investment in intangible fixed assets                               -0.2    -       -0.6    -       -
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired                   -       -       0.1     1.0     -
Sale of tangible fixed assets                                       16.0    -       0.2     63.5    42.9
Change in restricted cash                                           -0.1    -26.5   11.1    9.9     -4.7
                                                                                                     
Net cash flow from investing activities                             -102.8  -241.6  -1.8    27.3    25.5
                                                                                                     
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES                                                                  
Proceeds, borrowings                                                327.5   112.0   -       38.1    20.0
Repayment, borrowings                                               -223.0  -30.3   -31.2   -94.0   -62.3
Dividend paid                                                       -336.6  -       -119.4  -47.3   -
Capital increase¹⁾                                                  0.6     5.6     1.3     1.3     4.1
                                                                                                     
Net cash flow from financing activities                             -231.6  87.3    -149.3  -101.9  -38.2
                                                                                                     
Net cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities    -141.8  60.4    96.5    90.7    58.4
                                                                                                     
Cash and cash equivalents beginning balance                         380.9   320.5   224.0   133.3   74.9
Cash and cash equivalents, ending balance                           239.1   380.9   320.5   224.0   133.3
Restricted cash equivalents ending balance                          29.9    29.8    3.3     14.5    24.4
Cash and cash equivalents including restricted cash, ending balance 269.0   410.7   323.8   238.5   157.7
¹⁾ During 2023 share capital was increased by USD 54.7m including a USD 48.5m non-cash share issue in relation to purchase of three vessels.
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

28

Glossary

Key financial figures

 TCE per day                                  = TCE excluding unrealized gains/losses on derivativesAvailable earning days                     
                                                                                                                                               
 Gross profit %                               = Gross ProfitRevenue                                                                            
                                                                                                                                               
 EBITDA %                                     = EBITDARevenue                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                               
 Operating profit/(loss) %                    = Operating profit/(loss) (EBIT)Revenue                                                          
                                                                                                                                               
 Return on Equity (RoE) %                     = Net profit/(loss) for the yearAverage equity                                                   
                                                                                                                                               
 Return on Invested Capital(RoiC) %           = Operating profit/(loss) less taxAverage invested capital                                       
                                                                                                                                               
 Equity ratio                                 = EquityTotal assets                                                                             
                                                                                                                                               
 Earnings per share, EPS                      = Net profit/(loss) for the yearAverage number of shares                                         
                                                                                                                                               
 Diluted earnings/(loss) per share, EPS (USD) = Net profit/(loss) for the yearAverage number of shares less average number of treasury shares  
                                                                                                                                               
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

29

Glossary

Alternative performance measures group

Throughout the interim report, several alternative performance measures (APMs) are used.

The APMs used are the same as in the Annual Report 2022 and therefore we refer to the principles for these on pages 198-202 in the TORM plc Annual Report 2022. The following

APMs relate to the Group.

Net profit/(loss) for the year excluding non-recurrent items: Net profit/loss excluding non-recurrent items is net profit/loss less non-recurring items, e.g. impairment and reversals of impairment on vessels, profit from sale of vessels and claims provisions. TORM reports net profit excluding non-recurrent items because we believe it provides additional meaningful information to investors regarding the operational performance excluding non-recurrent fluctuations.

USDm                                                   Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Reconciliation to net profit/(loss)                                                           
Net profit/(loss) for the period                       185.4   106.6   339.1      117.0      562.6
Profit from sale of vessels                            -3.5    -0.8    -3.5       -0.8       -10.2
Impairment losses and reversals on tangible assets     -       0.2     -          2.8        2.6
Provisions                                             -       -6.3    -          -6.3       -6.3
Expense of capitalized bank fees at refinancing        2.4     -       2.4        -          -
Step up gain related to acquisition                    -       -       -          -          -0.3
Net profit/(loss) for the year ex. non-recurrent items 184.3   99.7    338.0      112.7      548.4
Gross profit: TORM defines gross profit, a performance measure, as revenues less port expenses, bunkers and commissions and other cost of goods and services sold, charter hire and operating expenses. TORM reports gross profit because we believe it provides additional meaningful information to investors, as gross profit measures the net earnings from shipping activities. Gross profit is calculated as follows:

USDm                                                                          Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Reconciliation to revenue                                                                                            
Revenue                                                                       384.3   338.5   774.5      547.9      1,443.4
Port expenses, bunkers, commissions and other cost of goods and services sold -74.1   -128.9  -196.3     -214.9     -459.5
Operating expenses                                                            -54.8   -51.1   -106.7     -100.4     -202.1
Gross profit                                                                  255.4   158.5   471.5      232.6      781.8
                                                                                                                     
Return on Invested Capital (RoIC): TORM defines RoIC as earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) less tax, divided by the average invested capital for the period. Invested capital is defined below.

RoIC expresses the returns generated on capital invested in TORM. The progression of RoIC is used by TORM to measure progress against our longer-term value creation goals outlined to investors. RoIC is calculated as follows:

USDm                                 Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Operating profit/(loss) (EBIT)       199.8   118.7   363.3      141.3      601.4
Tax                                  1.0     -0.4    -0.4       -0.7       5.9
EBIT less Tax                        200.8   118.3   362.9      140.6      607.3
EBIT less Tax - Full year equivalent 803.2   473.2   725.8      281.2      607.3
Invested capital, opening balance    2,291.7 2,081.5 2,142.3    2,011.3    2,011.3
Invested capital, ending balance     2,446.4 2,096.7 2,446.4    2,096.7    2,142.3
Average invested capital             2,369.1 2,089.1 2,294.4    2,054.0    2,076.8
Return on Invested Capital (RoIC)    33.9%   22.7%   31.6%      13.7%      29.2%
                                                                            
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

30

Glossary

Alternative performance measures group

Adjusted Return on Invested Capital (Adjusted RoIC): TORM defines adjusted RoIC as earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) less tax and non-recurrent items, divided by the average invested capital less average impairment for the period. Invested capital is defined below.

The Adjusted RoIC expresses the returns generated on capital invested in TORM adjusted for impacts related to non-recurrent items. The progression of RoIC is used by TORM to measure progress against our longer-term value creation goals outlined to investors. Adjusted RoIC is calculated as follows:

USDm                                             Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
EBIT less Tax - Full year equivalent             803.2   473.2   725.8      281.2      607.3
Profit from sale of vessels                      -3.5    -0.8    -3.5       -0.8       -10.2
Impairment losses on tangible assets             -       0.2     -          2.8        2.6
Provisions                                       -       -6.3    -          -6.3       -6.3
Expense of capitalized bank fees at refinancing  2.4     -       2.4        -          -
Step-up gain related to acquisition              -       -       -          -          -0.3
EBIT less tax and impairment                     802.1   466.3   724.7      276.9      593.1
Average invested capital¹⁾                       2,369.1 2,089.1 2,294.4    2,054.0    2,076.8
Average impairment ²⁾                            32.4    36.9    32.4       36.9       37.4
Average invested capital adjusted for impairment 2,401.5 2,126.0 2,326.8    2,090.9    2,114.2
Adjusted RoIC                                    33.4%   21.9%   31.1%      13.2%      28.1%
                                                                                        
¹⁾ Average invested capital is calculated as the average of the opening and closing balance of invested capital.
²⁾ Average impairment is calculated as the average of the opening and closing balances of impairment charges on vessels and goodwill in the balance sheet.
Adjusted EBITDA: TORM defines adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA net of the fair value adjustments on freight and bunker derivatives. EBITDA is used as a supplemental financial measure by Management and external users of financial statements, such as lenders, to assess TORM's operating performance as well as compliance with the financial covenants and restrictions contained in TORM's financing agreements. TORM believes that EBITDA assists Management and investors in evaluating TORM's operating performance by increasing comparability of TORM's performance from period to period. This increased comparability is achieved by excluding the potentially disparate effects of interest, depreciation, impairment, amortization, and taxes. These are items which could be affected by various changing financing methods and capital structures, which may significantly affect profit/(loss) between periods. The adjusted EBITDA is calculated as follows:

USDm                                                     Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
EBITDA                                                   236.8   153.4   435.4      213.8      743.0
Fair value adjustments on freight and bunker derivatives -37.0   9.5     -21.2      11.1       0.6
Adjusted EBITDA                                          199.8   162.9   414.2      224.9      743.6
                                                                                                
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

31

Glossary

Alternative performance measures group

Invested capital: TORM defines invested capital as the sum of intangible assets, tangible fixed assets, investments in joint ventures, deferred tax assets, other investments, bunkers, accounts receivable, assets held for sale (when applicable), non-current tax liability related to held over gains, deferred tax liabilities, trade payables, current tax liabilities, dividend payable, provisions and deferred income. Invested capital measures the net investment used to achieve our operating profit. TORM believes that invested capital is a relevant measure which Management uses to measure the overall development of the assets and liabilities generating our net profit. Such measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Invested capital is calculated as follows:

                                                     30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                                 2023    2022    2022
Tangible and intangible fixed assets                 2,167.5 1,850.4 1,869.1
Investments in joint ventures                        -       1.3     0.1
Deferred tax asset                                   0.3     0.6     0.6
Other investments                                    -       0.4     0.2
Inventories                                          66.9    78.3    72.0
Accounts receivable                                  341.5   258.6   343.9
Assets held-for-sale                                 10.8    69.2    -
Non-current tax liability related to held over gains -45.2   -45.2   -45.2
Deferred tax liability                               -4.6    -       -6.1
Trade payables ²⁾                                    -81.9   -103.8  -82.6
Current tax liabilities                              -1.3    -1.1    -2.0
Provisions                                           -6.8    -12.0   -6.8
Deferred income                                      -0.8    -       -0.9
Invested capital                                     2,446.4 2,096.7 2,142.3
                                                                      
¹⁾ Accounts receivable include Trade receivables, Other receivables and Prepayments.
²⁾ Trade payables include Trade payables, Other non-current liabilities and Other liabilities.
Net interest-bearing debt: Net interest-bearing debt is defined as mortgage debt and bank loans (current and non-current), lease liabilities less cash equivalents and interest-bearing loan receivables. Net interest-bearing debt depicts the net capital resources, which cause net interest expenditure and interest rate risk and which, together with equity, are used to finance our investments. As such, TORM believes that net interest-bearing debt is a relevant measure, which Management uses to measure the overall development of our use of financing, other than equity. Such measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Net interest-bearing debt is calculated as follows:

                                                     30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                                 2023    2022    2022
Borrowings¹⁾                                         1,167.2 1,056.3 978.0
Loan receivables                                     -4.6    -4.6    -4.6
Cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash -269.0  -157.7  -323.8
Net interest-bearing debt                            893.6   894.0   649.6
                                                                      
¹⁾ Borrowings include long-term and short-term borrowings, excluding capitalized loan costs of USD 13.5m.
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

32

Glossary

Alternative performance measures group

Liquidity: TORM defines liquidity as available cash, comprising cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash, as well as undrawn and committed credit facilities. TORM finds the APM important as the liquidity expresses TORM's financial position, ability to meet current liabilities and cash buffer. Further, it expresses TORM's ability to act and invest when new possibilities occur.

                                                                                                 30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                                                                             2023    2022    2022
Cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash                                             269.0   157.7   323.8
Undrawn credit facilities and committed facilities incl. sale & leaseback financing transactions 227.7   82.7    92.6
Liquidity                                                                                        496.7   240.4   416.4
                                                                                                                  
Free cash flow: TORM defines free cash flow as net cash flow from operating activities less the net cash flow from investing activities. TORM finds the APM important as free cash flow reflects our ability to generate cash, repay liabilities and pay dividends.

USDm                                    Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Net cash flow from operating activities 192.6   71.1    407.3      89.0       501.9
Net cash flow from investing activities -102.8  25.5    -344.4     -14.2      11.3
Free cash flow                          89.8    96.6    62.9       74.8       513.2
                                                                               
Net Asset Value per share (NAV/share): TORM believes that the NAV/share is a relevant measure which Management uses to measure the overall development of the assets and liabilities per share. Such measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. NAV/share is calculated using broker values of vessels and excluding charter commitments. NAV/share is calculated as follows:

                                                                           30 June  30 June  31 December
USDm                                                                       2023     2022     2022
Vessel values (broker values)                                              3,083.6  2,160.1  2,650.3
Vessel values of purchased secondhand vessel not delivered (broker values) -        49.0     -
Other committed investment CAPEX                                           16.7     13.2     18.4
Committed liability CAPEX                                                  -16.7    -49.2    -18.4
Goodwill                                                                   1.8      -        1.8
Other intangible assets                                                    1.8      -        2.0
Land and buildings                                                         5.3      3.7      3.8
Other plant and operating equipment                                        4.8      5.6      5.6
Investments in joint ventures                                              -        1.3      0.1
Loan receivables                                                           4.6      4.6      4.6
Deferred tax asset                                                         0.3      0.6      0.5
Other investments                                                          -        0.4      0.2
Inventories                                                                66.9     78.3     72.0
Accounts receivable ¹⁾                                                     341.5    258.6    343.9
Cash and cash equivalents incl. restricted cash                            269.0    157.7    323.8
Deferred tax liability                                                     -4.6     -        -6.1
Borrowings ²⁾                                                              -1,167.2 -1,056.3 -978.0
Trade payables ³⁾                                                          -81.9    -103.8   -82.6
Current tax liabilities                                                    -1.3     -1.1     -2.0
Provisions                                                                 -6.8     -12.0    -6.8
Deferred income                                                            -0.8     -        -0.9
Total Net Asset Value (NAV)                                                2,517.0  1,510.8  2,332.2
Non-controlling interest                                                   -1.9     -        -2.4
Total Net Asset Value (NAV) excl. non-controlling interest                 2,515.1  1,510.8  2,329.8
Total number of shares, end of period excluding treasury shares (million)  84.4     81.5     81.8
Total Net Asset Value per share (NAV/share)                                29.8     18.5     28.5
¹⁾ Accounts receivable includes Trade receivables, Other receivables and Prepayments.
²⁾ Borrowings include long-term and short-term borrowings, excluding capitalized loan costs of USD 13.5m.
³⁾ Trade payables includes Trade payables, Other non-current liabilities and Other liabilities.
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

33

Glossary

Alternative performance measures Tanker segment

Throughout the interim report, several alternative performance measures (APMs) are used. The APMs used are the same as in the Annual Report 2022 and therefore we refer to the principles for these on pages 198-202 in the TORM plc Annual Report 2022. After the acquisition of Marine Exhaust Technology A/S on 01 September 2022, the following APMs relate to the primary segment, the Tanker segment.

Time Charter Equivalent (TCE) earnings: TORM defines TCE earnings, a performance measure, as revenue less port expenses, bunkers and commissions incl. freight and bunker derivatives. TORM reports TCE earnings because we believe it provides additional meaningful information to investors in relation to revenue, the most directly comparable IFRS measure. TCE earnings is a standard shipping industry performance measure used primarily to compare period-to-period changes in a shipping company's performance irrespective of changes in the mix of charter types (i.e., spot charters, time charters and bareboat charters) under which the vessels may be employed between the periods. To be able to reconcile the TCE earnings to the TCE/day measure, adjusted TCE earnings are presented net of the fair value adjustments on freight and bunker derivatives. The TCE/day measure is calculated as the adjusted TCE earnings divided by available earning days. TCE earnings and adjusted TCE earnings are presented below:

USDm                                                     Q2 2023 Q2 2022 Q1-Q2 2023 Q1-Q2 2022 FY 2022
Reconciliation to revenue                                                                       
Revenue                                                  375.0   338.5   758.8      547.9      1,440.4
Port expenses, bunkers and commissions                   -67.0   -128.9  -185.9     -214.9     -458.9
TCE earnings                                             308.0   209.6   572.9      333.0      981.5
Fair value adjustments on freight and bunker derivatives -37.0   9.5     -21.2      11.1       0.6
Adjusted TCE earnings                                    271.0   219.1   551.7      344.1      982.1
                                                                                                
Available earning days                                   7,451   7,398   14,183     14,866     28,756
TCE per earning day (USD)                                36,360  29,622  38,903     23,152     34,153
                                                                                                
Net Loan-to-value (LTV): TORM defines Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio as vessel values divided by net borrowings of the vessels.

LTV describes the net debt ratio of the vessels and is used by TORM to describe the financial situation and the liquidity risk as well as to express the future possibilities to raise new capital by new loan facilities.

                                                                            30 June 30 June 31 December
USDm                                                                        2023    2022    2022
Vessel values (broker values)                                               3,083.6 2,160.1 2,650.3
Vessel values of purchased second-hand vessel not delivered (broker values) -       49.0    -
Other committed investment CAPEX                                            16.7    13.2    18.4
Total vessel values                                                         3,100.3 2,222.3 2,668.7
Borrowings ¹⁾                                                               1,159.5 1,056.3 971.4
- Debt regarding Land and buildings & Other plant and operating equipment   -4.9    -4.1    -3.2
Committed liability CAPEX                                                   16.7    49.2    18.4
Loan receivable                                                             -4.6    -4.6    -4.6
Cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash                        -264.9  -157.7  -321.4
Total (loan)                                                                901.8   939.1   660.6
Net Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio                                               29.1%   42.3%   24.8%
                                                                                             
¹⁾ Borrowings include long-term and short-term borrowings, excluding capitalized loan costs of USD 13.5m.
TORM INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS OF 2023

34

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1655891/0000919574-23-004888-index.html]

Disclaimer

TORM plc published this content on 17 August 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 17 August 2023 21:16:03 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 SAEXC00020230817ej8h005oq


Features
Denmark to police sanction-busting Russian tankers leaving the Baltic Sea?
Ben Aris in Berlin
1203 字
2023 年 11 月 19 日 23:01 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2023. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
The European Commission may ask Denmark to block the exit from the Baltic Sea and introduce inspections on Russian oil tankers as a way to enforce the $60 oil price cap sanctions, France24 reported on November 18.

As reported by bne IntelliNews, the oil sanctions are a spent cannon[https://www.intellinews.com/oil-sanctions-are-a-spent-canon-297256] and barely a single barrel of Russian oil has been sold below the $60 oil price cap[https://www.intellinews.com/the-us-led-price-cap-on-russian-oil-exports-has-failed-and-almost-no-russian-oil-is-being-sold-for-less-than-60-301190/] in recent months, the Financial Times reported earlier this month.

The EC is currently discussing a twelfth sanctions package, part of which will be efforts to better enforce the oil price cap, but the idea to make Denmark a gatekeeper for Russian oil exports via the Baltic Sea is not yet formally part of the draft plan. The debate is ongoing and the details of the new sanctions had been due to be released on November 17, but have now been delayed to December.

The Danish Straits comes into play as the perfect place to increase controls. “More than 70% of all Russian oil exports by sea pass through the Baltic Sea before being delivered to customers mainly in Asia,” Henning Gloystein, who covers geopolitical risk in oil and natural gas markets for the Eurasia Group, told France24.

The new European measures to strengthen sanctions against Russia provide for better control of compliance with the price at which Russia exports its oil abroad. Russia’s ability to avoid the sanctions are two-fold: it has bought a large shadow fleet[https://intellinews.com/how-big-is-russia-s-ghost-fleet-of-oil-tankers-271123/?source=baltic-states] of old tankers from Greek shipping tycoons, amongst others, that it can operate with impunity; and many EU-flagged shipping companies are simply ignoring the sanctions, The Peterson Institute for International Economics (PIIE) and Kyiv School of Economics (KSE) have reported[https://intellinews.com/russian-companies-build-up-200bn-secret-slush-fund-despite-the-oil-sanctions-290911/?source=russia].

“[Moscow] has built up a fleet of ghost ships which today carry out 70% of all oil transport for Moscow,” notes Elina Ribakova of PIIE. “These are hundreds of second-hand and end-of-life tankers which are often more than 50 years old.”

Brussels would like to entrust Denmark with the task of inspecting and possibly blocking cargo ships carrying Russian oil from sailing in its waters, according to people “informed of the discussions" about the next European sanctions plan, according to reports.

To make these controls more effective, the EC is suggesting that not only the contract price of a barrel of oil would be checked in the inspections, but the departing ships would also be subjected to European environmental regulations. “Clearly these ships will have to be insured against the risk of oil spills, which is very expensive,” Benjamin Hilgenstock, of Kyiv School of Economics, told France24.

By demanding stricter compliance with EU environmental controls, the EC hopes to penalise the older ships, which run a much higher chance of causing an accident and oil spill. The upshot will be to massively increase their insurance costs, according to Hilgenstock. Although Russian ships are now insured by Russian companies and other non-aligned insurance companies, these companies do not have the financial resources to cover these elevated risks, forcing shippers back to the Western companies that do have this level of capitalisation.

"These are ageing ships which pose an increased risk of accident and it may therefore seem entirely natural that a country like Denmark wants to protect its coasts against such a risk by demanding to see proof that the carrier is well and truly covered,” explains Ribakova.

When the oil prices cap sanctions were first imposed, access to insurance was the means of enforcement. At the time, Western insurance companies accounted for 95% of all maritime insurance, which was believed to be enough to effectively enforce the new rules. However, since then the West’s share of the maritime insurance business has fallen to 65%, according to various reports, not including Russian shipping that remains outside the sanctions’ regime and Western shipping companies that are ignoring the rules.

It is hoped that, by making Denmark a gatekeeper, it will become possible to enforce the original idea of using access to Western insurance as a mechanism to enforce the oil price cap sanctions.

Naval blockage

However, just how Denmark will stop ships for inspection or block those that fail to supply the necessary documentation is not clear.

None of the protagonists in the discussion on using Denmark as a gatekeeper address the question of how the idea can be enforced, without imposing a naval blockade or using the threat of force to stop Russian tankers in Denmark’s territorial waters.

Under international maritime law, a naval blockade is an act or war, and that would be an act of war against Russia by a Nato member.

Nato Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has said from the beginning of the conflict that his primary goal was to “prevent WWIII” and that helping Ukraine is a secondary goal.

For the same reasons, during the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 US president John F Kennedy was careful to call the embargo of Soviet ships entering Cuban waters a “quarantine” not a “blockade” so as not to provoke a war.

Moreover, under international maritime law any ship has the right to steam through another country’s territorial water without seeking express permission under the “right of innocent passage[https://intellinews.com/russian-forces-oppose-the-uk-navy-s-freedom-of-navigation-operation-off-crimea-214048/]” rule.

As bne IntelliNews reported, when Britain sent a warship through waters under the control of Russia off Crimea in June 2021 before the war, all ships of any state – crucially including warships and submarines – have a free and irreversible right under International Law to make “innocent passage” through the territorial waters of any state. This right is not limited by the need to ask permission or give notice, bne IntelliNews’ military commentator and navy-trained lawyer Gav Don wrote at the time of the Crimea incident. As long as the Russian oil tankers do nothing that can be deemed “military” in nature, Denmark has no right to stop them. In the case of a submarine, innocent passage must be conducted on the surface.

But the experts interviewed by France24 suggest that even if Russian, and especially internationally flagged, ships do not stop when challenged, they will find themselves in the crosshairs of the American and European authorities who may, in the future, sanction them.

The hope is that by using Denmark to police Russia’s oil exports at the very least will mean that the new risks will drive up costs again and so reduce Russia’s income from its oil exports that have risen dramatically this year, putting Russia’s budget back into profit[https://www.intellinews.com/russia-s-budget-back-inside-the-2-of-gdp-target-after-revenues-surge-in-june-286488/] since May.

“Several European diplomats confirmed that the European working document did not make direct reference to Denmark,” Reuters reported.

"I don't think that Denmark will from now on physically stop Russian tankers passing off its coast. I don't see on what basis," said Gloystein; if only, according to him, because there is no ban on anyone transporting Russian oil. The objective of the sanctions is simply "to prevent Russia from selling its oil above the ceiling price of $60 per barrel of Russian crude exported by sea [set in December 2022], not to stop them."

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020231119ejbj000gp


Compliance with sanctions against Russia and Belarus in stock market transactions
575 字
2023 年 12 月 26 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Copenhagen, Denmark: Gorrissen Federspiel has issued the following press release:

Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the EU has adopted a wide range of sanctions against Russia and Belarus, including certain restrictions on the issuance of securities to Russian and Belarusian companies and individuals. All Danish companies, individuals and authorities are obliged to comply with the sanctions, and failure to comply may result in fines or imprisonment.

EU has by the Russia Regulation[1] and the Belarus Regulation[2] introduced a ban on issuing securities to Russian or Belarusian citizens and natural persons residing in Russia or Belarus, as well as legal entities established in Russia and Belarus. The ban can cause challenges in connection with certain transactions under stock exchange law and general meetings, and companies must therefore continuously ensure that they are familiar with their shareholder base.

Examples of transaction types that are covered: Issue or sale of shares in connection with a stock market listing, issue of shares in other issues such as rights issues and directed placements, e.g. accelerated book-buildings and share exchange offers.

Does it matter at the general meeting? In connection with general meetings, the companies have an obligation to - together with i.a. nominee banks, Euronext and Computershare - not to pay dividends (or allocate shares) to persons subject to sanctions and not to allow voting at general meetings for persons subject to this.

Which securities are covered? For Russia, the ban applies to securities (or units of collective investment undertakings providing exposure to such securities) (i) in an EU currency issued after 12 April 2022, or (ii ) in other currencies issued after 6 August 2023. For Belarus, the ban applies to the same securities and shares in collective investment undertakings, but only to those denominated in an EU currency issued after 12 April 2022, i.e. that for Belarus it does not include securities denominated in any other currency.

Which persons are covered? The ban applies to (i) Russian and Belarusian citizens, (ii) natural persons residing in Russia or Belarus, and (iii) legal entities, established in Russia or Belarus. However, the ban does not apply to citizens or persons who have a temporary or permanent residence permit in an EU country (and to Russian citizens in an EEA country or Switzerland) and who are not subject to freezing measures.

How can you as a company do: The companies must relate to the shareholder base in connection with the preparation and implementation of a transaction or general meeting. In practice, settlement banks, nominee banks, Euronext and Computershare carry out an important screening in this area, but the companies themselves should check the owner's register and compare it with registrations and with sanction lists and follow up with the aforementioned partners. In addition, during transactions, there may be a need to exclude tenders to sanctioned persons in tender materials and by using so-called click-through confirmations/barriers in connection with access to tender materials.

What happens in case of violation? Breach of the ban is punished according to § 110 c of the Criminal Code, according to which intent can be punished with a fine or imprisonment of up to 4 years. There is limited practice on the level of fines for sanction violations.

Note: This is an automated translated version of the story which may have translation errors. Please always refer to the original story[https://gorrissenfederspiel.com/overholdelse-af-sanktioner-mod-rusland-og-belarus-ved-boersretlige-transaktioner/].

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020231227ejcq00031


World News: European Investigators Say Poland Hinders Nord Stream Sabotage Probe
By Bojan Pancevski
756 字
2024 年 1 月 9 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A16
英文
Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
BERLIN -- Polish officials have resisted cooperating with an international probe into the sabotage of the Nord Stream natural-gas pipelines and failed to disclose potentially crucial evidence, European investigators working on the case said.

Those Polish officials have been slow to provide information and withheld key evidence about the alleged saboteurs' movements on Polish soil, investigators said. They are hoping the new government in Warsaw, which took office in December, will help shed light on the attack.

European investigators have long believed the attack was launched from Ukraine via Poland. But they say Warsaw's failure to fully cooperate has made it hard to establish whether the attack happened with or without the former Polish government's knowledge, senior officials said.

Some senior European officials said they are considering approaching the office of Donald Tusk, Poland's new prime minister, for help in investigating the biggest act of sabotage on the European continent since World War II.

The Nord Stream pipelines, connecting Russia to Germany under the Baltic Sea, were blown up in September 2022. This added pressure on Germany and others to make themselves independent from Russian fuel supplies.

Any suggestion that Poland, a North Atlantic Treaty Organization member, might be concealing information about an attack on an ally could undermine trust in an alliance that is facing one of the biggest tests since its creation. For Moscow, any behavior by Poland hinting at involvement in the sabotage could be seen as an aggressive act by NATO.

Investigators haven't offered evidence linking the Polish government to the explosions, and say that even if some Polish officials were involved, it could have been without the knowledge of the political leadership. Yet they say efforts by Polish officials to hinder their probe have made them increasingly suspicious of Warsaw's role and motives.

Most Western security officials believe that a Ukrainian crew, operating with or without sanction from Kyiv, was behind the sabotage. Ukraine has denied involvement. Russia said it thought the U.S. was responsible for the attack, which Washington denied.

Days after taking office, Tusk fired the heads of all the intelligence services, including those involved in the Nord Stream probe. European officials hope he will retain some police executives they think might have been under political pressure not to cooperate but might now be inclined to do so.

Polish prosecutors, who oversee the domestic investigation, said they were cooperating with other countries but found no evidence of Polish involvement. The border guard and the internal-security service declined to comment.

An investigation by Germany, Denmark and Sweden has so far found that the pipeline was blown up by a crew of six, including deep-sea divers, traveling on a leisure yacht called Andromeda. On its voyage, Andromeda stopped in all three countries, investigators said.

The boat, leased in Germany via a Polish company, contained traces of octagon, the same explosive that was found at the underwater blast sites, they said.

After mining parts of the pipelines, the crew docked in Poland's Baltic port of Kolobrzeg, where they spent a full day, said investigators who tracked the boat by analyzing its navigation-system data, the crew's mobile-phone communications, satellite imagery and witnesses' accounts.

A port official suspicious about the five men and one woman, all of whom spoke a mixture of Russian and Ukrainian, alerted police. On Sept. 19, Poland's border guard checked the identification of the crew, who produced European Union passports and were allowed to continue their trip, sailing back up north, where they laid the rest of the mines, investigators say.

Polish authorities didn't share this information with European investigators until March 2023 -- and they only did so after being contacted by their German counterparts. Berlin was tipped off in January about the yacht's stay in Poland by the Dutch military intelligence service, whose information came from someone in Ukraine.

Several Polish agencies declined to share with European investigators footage of the suspects taken by CCTV cameras while the yacht was moored there, those investigators said. The investigators have established that the boat and its crew were exposed to security cameras during their stay in the port.

While prosecutors and the border guard, two of Poland's agencies investigating the case, appeared cooperative, officials from other branches including the internal security agency ABW, didn't answer questions, obfuscated or gave contradictory information, European officials said.

---

Drew Hinshaw contributed to this article.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020240109ek190002w


World news
Ukraine war: Russia says it has full control over Ukrainian town of Avdiivka – as it happened
Amy Sedghi
8522 字
2024 年 2 月 18 日 16:10 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2024. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
Russian troops have full control and have advanced 8.6km beyond that region of frontline, Russian news agencies say

block-time published-time 4.05pm GMT

Closing summary

It has just gone 6pm in Kyiv and 7pm in Moscow. We will be closing this blog soon, but you can stay up-to-date on the Guardian’s Russia and Ukraine coverage here[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia+ukraine].

Here is a recap of the latest developments:

*

Russian troops have reportedly established full control over the Ukrainian town of Avdiivka and have advanced 8.6 km (5.3 miles) in that part of the frontline, Russian news agencies reported on Sunday, citing the defence ministry. Russia claimed the capture Avdiivka after Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] withdrew, but Moscow said that some Ukrainian troops were still holed up in a vast Soviet-era coke plant. The fall of Avdiivka is Russia’s biggest gain since capturing the city of Bakhmut in May 2023.

*

Ukraine’s army on Sunday accused Russian forces of shooting two prisoners of war (PoW) and posted a grainy video shot from the air that they said showed the incident. AFP could not verify the authenticity of the video or the location and Ukrainian authorities have not commented on the news agency’s report.

*

More than 400 people were detained in Russia by Saturday night while paying tribute to opposition leader Alexei Navalny, according to the OVD-Info rights group that tracks political arrests and provides legal aid. Hundreds of people in dozens of Russian cities streamed to ad-hoc memorials and monuments to victims of political repressions with flowers and candles on Friday and Saturday to pay a tribute to the politician.

*

Ukrainian forces repelled a Russian offensive on the southern front after the withdrawal of Kyiv’s troops from the devastated eastern town of Avdiivka, the Ukrainian military said on Sunday. “Defence forces in the Zaporizhzhia sector defeated yesterday’s Russian offensive,” Ukrainian military said on Telegram, adding that 18 armoured vehicles including three tanks were destroyed and that the Russians “retreated to their previous positions”. So far there has been no comment from the Russian side.

*

“Please, do not ask Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] when the war will end. Ask yourself – why is Putin still able to continue it,” Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy said as he addressed delegates at the 60th Munich Security Conference on Saturday. In a lengthy thread posted on his X account today, Zelenskiy shared a video of the speech and also wrote: “We can get our land back. And Putin can lose.”

*

China’s foreign minister Wang Yi has told his Ukrainian counterpart that Beijing does not sell lethal weapons to Russia for its war against Ukraine, a statement said on Sunday. China says it is a neutral party in the Ukraine conflict but has been criticised for refusing to condemn Moscow for its offensive.

*

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Saturday he had discussed the prospects for peace in Kyiv’s war against Russia with his Chinese counterpart. Kuleba said he had discussed Ukraine’s plans to hold a global peace summit, which Switzerland has agreed to help stage. The two men, he said, “agreed on the need to maintain Ukraine-China contacts at all levels and continue our dialogue”.

*

The UK’s shadow foreign secretary, David Lammy has said he would support further sanctions against Russia and added he would “plug the gaps” of existing measures. In seperate comments made at the Munich Security Conference on Sunday, Lammy said: “Russia will continue to be a threat for Europe for months, years, perhaps a generation more.”

*

Events on the battlefield in Ukraine are a matter of “life and death” for Russia that could determine its fate, president Vladimir Putin said in remarks aired on Sunday. The Kremlin has repeatedly framed the almost two-year conflict as a battle for Russia’s survival in a bid to rally patriotic sentiment among its population.

*

More than 100 Kremlin documents obtained by a European intelligence service and reviewed by The Washington Post[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2024/02/16/russian-disinformation-zelensky-zaluzhny/], show that Russia ran a disinformation campaign to undermine the Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy. The US publication said Kremlin instructions had “resulted in thousands of social media posts and hundreds of fabricated articles” that “tried to exploit what were then rumoured tensions” between Zelenskiy and his top army commander, Valerii Zaluzhnyi.

*

German politician Ricarda Lang pushed back at the idea of a deal with Russia, in response to US Republican senator JD Vance’s comments, that included his belief that Putin is not “an existential threat to Europe”, on a panel at the Munich Security Conference on Sunday. Lang said: “Putin has shown over and over again – and he just showed this with the murder of Navalny on Friday – that he has no interest in peace at the moment.”

*

Poland’s Radek Sikorski stressed Poland’s support for Ukraine at the third day of the Munich Security Conference, but acknowledged that Warsaw and Kyiv have two problems linked to grain and trucking. Responding to Sikorski on stage, Olha Stefanishyna, Ukraine’s deputy prime minister, said: “We have to solve it. There are legitimate messages on both sides. I think that the major contribution in resolving these issues has been done by Ukraine, because we secured the Black Sea.”

*

Brazil’s president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva said on Sunday there should be a thorough investigation into the death of prominent Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny before making any accusations. Speaking at a press conference after attending an African Union summit in Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, Lula said refraining from taking a stance on the death at this moment was a matter of “common sense”.

*

Denmark has decided to donate all the artillery rounds from its stockpiles to Ukraine, Danish prime minister Mette Frederiksen told the Munich Security Conference on Saturday. Frederiksen did not specify how many artillery shells Denmark has in its stockpiles.

*

The EU’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, said “the most important security commitment for Ukraine is membership” of the EU, in comments made at the Munich Security Conference on Sunday.

*

Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny[https://www.theguardian.com/world/alexei-navalny] ’s wife, Yulia Navalny, published a picture of the couple on her Instagram account on Sunday in what is her first social media post since her husband died.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/16/alexei-navalny-exile-russia-putin-prison] The caption read simply: “I love you.”

*

Estonian prime minister Kaja Kallas on Sunday dismissed a warrant issued by Russia for her arrest, saying it was just an attempt to intimidate her amid speculation she could get a top EU post. “It’s Russia’s playbook. It’s nothing surprising and we are not afraid,” she told Reuters in an interview on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference. When asked by Reuters whether she was interested in any future European role she said: “We are not there yet.”

*

The wife of jailed British-Russian dissident Vladimir Kara-Murza has said she fears for her husband’s life after the death of Alexei Navalny. Evgenia Kara-Murza, has called on the international community to take further action to free political prisoners in Russia who she says are the only alternative to Putin’s regime.

block-time published-time 3.38pm GMT

Ukraine army accuses Russian forces of shooting two PoWs

Ukraine ’s army on Sunday accused Russian forces of shooting two prisoners of war (PoW) and posted a grainy video shot from the air that they said showed the incident, reports AFP.

In the video, two soldiers labelled as Ukrainians run towards another labelled as Russian in a trench. The Russian soldier then grabs them and shoots numerous times until they stop moving, before turning back. The two men do not appear to have resisted capture. AFP could not verify the authenticity of the video or the location.

“This morning … the Russians once again showed their attitude to international humanitarian law by shooting two Ukrainian prisoners of war,” the ground forces wrote on Telegram. They said the incident happened in the area of responsibility of the Khortytsia group of troops, which operates on the eastern front, without giving a more precise location.

Ukrainian media reported it happened northeast of the village of Vesele in the Donetsk region, citing the Khortytsia group’s press service. Khortytsia’s troops were not involved in the withdrawal from the town of Avdiivka in the region, which Russia claimed Saturday to fully control.

Russia and Ukraine have several times accused each other of violating international humanitarian law by killing prisoners-of-war since Russia invaded.

The UN human rights office of the high commissioner has documented cases of summary executions of Ukrainian prisoners of war as well as torture.

Earlier on Sunday, the DeepState Telegram channel seen as close to the Ukrainian army reported that Russian forces had shot six injured Ukrainian soldiers left behind during the withdrawal from Avdiivka, most likely on Thursday.

It said the men had been too badly wounded to leave the Zenit position near the town of Avdiivka with other troops during Ukraine’s withdrawal and comrades had recognised their bodies on a video posted on social media by Russians.

Ukrainian authorities have not commented on AFP’s report.

block-time published-time 3.03pm GMT

Danish prime minister says Denmark to donate all its artillery to Ukraine – report

Denmark has decided to donate all the artillery rounds from its stockpiles to Ukraine, Danish prime minister Mette Frederiksen told the Munich Security Conference on Saturday, reports The Kyiv Independent[https://kyivindependent.com/denmark-to-donate-all-its-artillery-to-ukraine-says-pm/].

“If you ask Ukrainians, they are asking us for ammunition now, artillery now. From the Danish side, we decided to donate our entire artillery,” Frederiksen said.

“There is still ammunition in European stocks. This is not a question of only production because we have the weapons, we have ammunition, we have air defence that we don’t have to use ourselves at the moment that we should deliver to Ukraine.”

The Kyiv Independent report that Frederiksen did not specify how many artillery shells Denmark has in its stockpiles.

“Russia does not want peace with us. They are destabilizing the western world from many different angles – in the Arctic region, the Balkans, and Africa – with disinformation, cyber-attacks, hybrid war, and obviously in Ukraine,” she said.

block-time published-time 2.40pm GMT

Russia will not intimidate me, Estonia's Kallas says

Estonian prime minister Kaja Kallas on Sunday dismissed a warrant issued by Russia for her arrest, saying it was just an attempt to intimidate her amid speculation she could get a top EU post, reports Reuters.

Once ruled by Moscow but now a member of both the EU and Nato, Estonia has been a supporter of Kyiv and Kallas has been one of Moscow ’s most vocal critics since the Russian invasion of Ukraine nearly two years ago.

Russian police placed her and several other Baltic politicians on a wanted list on 13 February for destroying Soviet-era monuments.

“It is meant to intimidate and make me refrain from the decisions that I would otherwise make,” Kallas told Reuters in an interview on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference. “But it’s Russia’s playbook. It’s nothing surprising and we are not afraid.”

The Baltic politicians risk being arrested only if they cross the Russian border, otherwise declaring them wanted has no real consequences.

Kallas’s high profile in pushing the EU to do more to support Ukraine has led to speculation in Brussels that she could take on a senior role after the next EU parliamentary elections in June, possibly as foreign policy chief. She said that speculation was also contributing to Russia’s aggression towards her.

“It’s hard to be popular,” she said ironically. “The Russians have also seen that, and that’s why they issued the arrest warrant to really emphasise the biggest argument against me, that I am a provocation to Russia.”

When asked by Reuters whether she was interested in any future European role she said: “We are not there yet. I’m the prime minister of Estonia.”

block-time published-time 2.21pm GMT

More now on the aftermath of the death of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny[https://www.theguardian.com/world/alexei-navalny] .

His wife, Yulia Navalnaya, published a picture of the couple on her Instagram account on Sunday in what is her first social media post since her husband died.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/16/alexei-navalny-exile-russia-putin-prison]

The caption read simply: “I love you.”

It comes as hundreds of people in dozens of cities visited ad-hoc memorials and monuments to victims of political repressions with flowers and candles on Friday and Saturday to pay a tribute to the politician.

As we reported earlier, police detained 401 people by Saturday night, according to the OVD-Info rights group that tracks political arrests and provides legal aid.

More than 200 arrests were made in St Petersburg, the group said. The city’s courts have ordered 42 of those detained on Friday to serve from one to six days in jail, while nine others were fined, officials said. In Moscow, at least six people were ordered to serve 15 days in jail, according to OVD-Info. One person was also jailed in the southern city of Krasnodar and two more in the city of Bryansk, the group said.

The news of Navalny’s death came a month before a presidential election in Russia that is widely expected to give Vladimir Putin another six years in power.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.30pm GMT

block-time published-time 1.52pm GMT

It has been almost two years since the invasion of Ukraine and our colleague Shaun Walker[https://www.theguardian.com/profile/shaun-walker] has been taking a look at what may happen in the coming months.

The grim news, as the second anniversary of Russia’s full-scale invasion approaches, is another sign that the third year of the war could be the hardest yet for Ukraine.

The mood is very different from that of a year ago, when amid the horror Ukrainians remained buoyed up by the extraordinary consolidation of national society, and looked forward to the swift liberation of all territories occupied by Russia.

You can read the full piece below:

Related: Shock, anger and war fatigue: Ukraine’s two years of agony[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/18/shock-anger-and-war-fatigue-ukraines-two-years-of-agony]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.33pm GMT

block-time published-time 1.21pm GMT

The wife of jailed British - Russian dissident Vladimir Kara-Murza has said she fears for her husband’s life after the death of Alexei Navalny, reports the Press Association (PA).

Kara-Murza has been a long-term critic of Russian president Vladimir Putin and has survived two poisonings since 2015, which have left him with a form of nerve damage called polyneuropathy. He was jailed by a Moscow court in April 2023, leading the UK to sanction 11 individuals involved in his case.

According to PA, his wife, Evgenia Kara-Murza, has called on the international community to take further action to free political prisoners in Russia who she says are the only alternative to Putin’s regime.

She told the BBC’s Sunday With Laura Kuenssberg that she had feared for her husband’s life since he was first poisoned in 2015 and now sleeps with her phone by her bed “dreading” a call with similar news.

She said:

I believe that my husband’s life is in danger, as are lives of many other political prisoners in Russian prisons, because these people are kept behind bars, very often with serious medical conditions with no proper medical treatment, and they are kept in such conditions in order to make their state of health deteriorate.

With all that is happening, I cannot afford breaking down, I cannot afford being afraid, I cannot afford just the normal human feeling of fear. I have to always fight that and step over it and say yes, I am afraid, but that is not important right now.

Continuing the fight is important, telling the stories of those people who are suffering from the regime is important. Today, people are getting arrested for laying flowers to the memorials of the victims of repression, that situation is deteriorating, it seems, by the day.”

Speaking of Navalny’s death, she said:

I was horrified but not surprised because the use of political assassination as a method of dealing with opponents has been there for the entire rule of Vladimir Putin. He has been using this method since early-2000s.

This was a murder for which Vladimir Putin is responsible. All that impunity that lasted for decades, led him to believe that he is somehow untouchable, and for as long as he is sitting in the Kremlin unchecked, we will see more warmongering, we will see more repression and we will see more deaths.”

Calling on governments to step up action against Russia, she urged them to “get on the same page with help to Ukraine. The US Congress has been debating that aid to Ukraine for how long now? And they seem to be finally, finally agreeing that it is needed, but come on, did Alexei Navalny have to die for this to happen?”

She added:

I have this question to the international community. Will it maybe, finally, say that Vladimir Putin isn’t a legitimate leader when it comes to political prisoners?

Yes, more should be done to get those whose lives are in danger out. These people who are being now slowly killed, these are – they represent that alternative to Vladimir Putin, and if they’re not saved, who is going to be there to rebuild the country from scratch? Who is going to make Russia into a democracy if not these people that have stood up, with their heads held high and said no?”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.23pm GMT

block-time published-time 12.55pm GMT

China tells Ukraine it 'does not sell lethal weapons’ to Russia

China ’s foreign minister has told his Ukrainian counterpart that Beijing does not sell lethal weapons to Russia for its war against Ukraine, a statement said on Sunday.

According to AFP, Wang Yi told Dmytro Kuleba during a meeting on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference on Saturday that China “does not take any advantage of the situation, and does not sell lethal weapons to conflict areas or parties to the conflict”, according to a foreign ministry readout.

China says it is a neutral party in the Ukraine conflict but has been criticised for refusing to condemn Moscow for its offensive.

China and Russia have ramped up economic cooperation and diplomatic contacts in recent years, and their strategic partnership has only grown closer since Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Beijing has faced accusations that it is supplying lethal arms to Russia, charges it has always denied.

“No matter how the international situation changes, China hopes that China-Ukraine relations will develop normally and continue to benefit the two peoples,” Wang told Kuleba, according to the ministry’s readout.

“Once again, I would like to thank Ukraine for helping the Chinese people evacuate safely under emergency conditions,” it said. “The Chinese people will never forget that.”

The readout said Wang stressed that China adheres to the political settlement of flashpoint issues and insisted on promoting peace talks.

“We will continue to play a constructive role in bringing an early end to the war and re-establishing peace,” Wang told Kuleba.

“Even if there is only a glimmer of hope for peace, China will not give up its efforts.”

block-time published-time 12.50pm GMT

Brazil's Lula says there should be a thorough investigation into Navalny's death before any accusations

Brazil ’s president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva said on Sunday there should be a thorough investigation into the death of prominent Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny before making any accusations, reports Reuters.

His remarks were in sharp contrast to western leaders’ strong and swift criticisms of Russia over Navalny’s death while being held in a jail about 40 miles north of the Arctic Circle on Friday. US president Joe Biden said Russian president Vladimir Putin and “his thugs” were responsible.

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov rejected such accusations as unacceptable.

Speaking at a press conference after attending an African Union summit in Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, Lula said refraining from taking a stance on the death at this moment was a matter of “common sense”.

“A citizen died in prison, I don’t know if he was ill or had any issues,” Lula said. “To make an accusation is to trivialise. I hope that a coroner will provide an explanation for why the individual died, that’s all.”

Lula’s comments reflected how non-western nations have not joined the west in its efforts to deeply isolate Russian Putin over the invasion of Ukraine and other issues.

Lula has repeatedly called for peace in Ukraine and says that Russia should not have invaded, but he says that the US has needlessly prolonged the war.

Navalny’s mother was told on Saturday her son had been struck down by “sudden death syndrome” and that his body would not be handed over to the family until an investigation was completed, his team said.

During the press conference, Lula advocated for the global south to assert its due place in the economy, politics, and culture, highlighting the importance of the Brics bloc for this purpose. The group, consisting of Brazil, Russia, China, India and South Africa, officially expanded in January with the inclusion of Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.52pm GMT

block-time published-time 12.37pm GMT

Kremlin ran disinformation campaign to undermine Zelenskiy, reports The Washington Post

More than 100 Kremlin documents obtained by a European intelligence service and reviewed by The Washington Post[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2024/02/16/russian-disinformation-zelensky-zaluzhny/] , show that Russia ran a disinformation campaign to undermine the Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy.

According to The Washington Post, files were shared with them to “expose for the first time the scale of Kremlin propaganda targeting Zelenskiy with the aim of dividing and destabilising Ukrainian society – efforts that Moscow dubbed ‘information psychological operations’”.

The Washington Post said Kremlin instructions had “resulted in thousands of social media posts and hundreds of fabricated articles, created by troll farms and circulated in Ukraine and across Europe” that “tried to exploit what were then rumoured tensions” between Zelenskiy and his top army commander, Valerii Zaluzhnyi. Earlier this month, Zelenskiy fired Zaluzhnyi[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/08/volodymyr-zelenskiy-fires-top-ukraine-army-commander], in Ukraine’s biggest military shake-up since Russia’s full-scale invasion began nearly two years ago.

The US publication said that at a meeting on 16 January 2023, the Kremlin’s first deputy chief of staff, Sergei Kiriyenko “laid out four key objectives for the Ukraine propaganda team: discrediting[https://washingtonpost.com/documents/3552636d-936d-48d8-b464-6996ef6a02eb.pdf?itid=lk_inline_manual_14] Kyiv’s military and political leadership, splitting[https://washingtonpost.com/documents/c25f192e-2b63-436b-b534-62ab90c8ce30.pdf?itid=lk_inline_manual_14] the Ukrainian elite, demoralizing Ukrainian troops and disorienting the Ukrainian population, the documents show”.

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov, head of the Kremlin’s department for developing information and communication technologies Tatyana Matveeva, and Alexander Kharichev did not respond to The Washington Post’s requests for comment on the contents of the documents.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.29pm GMT

block-time published-time 12.06pm GMT

'Most important security commitment' for Ukraine is membership of the EU, says Josep Borrell

Speaking at the Munich Security Conference on Sunday, the EU ’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, said the most important geopolitical issues facing the EU today are related to Ukraine, Gaza and the global south – as well as defence.

“We have to increase and provide Ukraine with security commitments,” he said, adding that “the most important security commitment for Ukraine is membership” of the EU.

He also warned that “we have to consider different scenarios about how much engaged will US be on European security.”

block-time published-time 11.53am GMT

'We can get our land back and Putin can lose', says Zelenskiy

“Please, do not ask Ukraine when the war will end. Ask yourself – why is Putin still able to continue it,” Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy said as he addressed delegates at the 60th Munich Security Conference on Saturday.

enltrIn my speech at the Munich Security Conference, I warned of the catastrophic threats that the Russian regime poses to Europe and the world, not just Ukraine, and outlined collective steps to counter them, preserve the rules-based order, and make security a reality again.

?? pic.twitter.com/e6jHEs8Owg[https://t.co/e6jHEs8Owg]

— Volodymyr Zelenskyy / ????????? ?????????? (@ZelenskyyUa) February 18, 2024[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1759159365838262462?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

In a lengthy thread posted on his X account today, Zelenskiy shared a video of the speech and also wrote:

24 February 2022, could have marked the end of the world as we all know it. A world of rules meant to protect life. Our resistance, with the support of partners, has put on hold the destruction of this rules-based world order. 2024 must become a time for its full restoration.

It is not the rules that define the world’s life that should remain in the past, but rather, a Russia that doesn’t respect the rules should remain in the past. And we can ensure this. Not just by doing something. But by doing everything necessary.

He also said: “Ukrainians have proven that we can force Russia to retreat and that we are capable of restoring the rules. And with this, we leave absolutely nothing of the key Russian myth-the myth that Ukraine supposedly cannot win this war.”

Zelenskiy said that if Ukraine did not defeat Russian president Vladimir Putin now, then it would not matter who leads Russia:

If we don’t defeat Putin now, it won’t eventually matter who leads Russia. Every new Russian dictator will remember how to maintain power by annexing lands, killing opponents, and destroying the world order. If this happens, Europe, Central Asia and the world will be dark places.”

“We can get our land back. And Putin can lose,” wrote Zelenskiy, saying that “this has already happened more than once on the battlefield”. He added: “Our actions are limited only by the sufficiency and length of the range of our strength-by what does not depend on us. And the Avdiivka situation proves this exactly.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.55am GMT

block-time published-time 11.40am GMT

Russia says Avdiivka under its full control - Russian reports

Russian troops have established full control over the Ukrainian town of Avdiivka and have advanced 8.6 km (5.3 miles) in that part of the frontline, Russian news agencies reported on Sunday, citing the defence ministry.

According to Reuters, Russia claimed the capture of the Ukrainian town of Avdiivka after Ukraine withdrew, but Moscow said that some Ukrainian troops were still holed up in a vast Soviet-era coke plant after one of the most intense battles of the war.

Interactive[https://interactive.guim.co.uk/uploader/embed/2024/02/avdiivka-zip/giv-13425vChUPE4GeAtG/] Guardian graphic showing Russian-controlled territory and advances, plus areas where Ukraine has regained control.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.12pm GMT

block-time published-time 11.38am GMT

Here are some of the latest images from the newswires:

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.38am GMT

block-time published-time 11.10am GMT

Russia says Ukrainian units entrenched at Avdiivka coke plant

Russia claimed the capture of the Ukrainian town of Avdiivka after Ukraine withdrew, but Moscow said that some Ukrainian troops were still holed up in a vast Soviet-era coke plant after one of the most intense battles of the war, reports Reuters.

The fall of Avdiivka is Russia’s biggest gain since capturing the city of Bakhmut in May 2023, and comes almost two years to the day since Russian president Vladimir Putin triggered a full-scale war by ordering the invasion of Ukraine.

According to Reuters, Ukraine said it had withdrawn its soldiers to save troops from being fully surrounded after months of fierce fighting. Putin hailed the fall of Avdiivka as an important victory and congratulated Russian troops.

“The head of state congratulated Russian soldiers on this success, an important victory,” the Kremlin said in a statement on its website.

But Russia said some Ukrainian forces were still holed up at the Soviet-era coke plant, once one of Europe’s biggest, in Avdiivka, which is key to Russia’s aim of securing full control of the industrial Donbas region.

“Measures are being taken to completely clear the town of militants and to block Ukrainian units that have left the town and are entrenched at the Avdiivka Coke and Chemical Plant,” Russian defence ministry spokesperson Igor Konashenkov said.

There was no public comment yet by Ukrainian authorities on this. Russian state television showed blue and yellow Ukrainian flags being taken down in Avdiivka and Russia’s white, blue and red flag raised, including over the coke plant.

The Russian defence ministry said Russia had taken about 32 square kilometres (12 square miles) of territory in the advance amid heavy losses for Ukraine. It gave no figures for Russian losses, which Ukraine says are huge.

Russia cast the Ukrainian withdrawal as rushed and chaotic, with some soldiers and weapons left behind. The Ukrainian military said there had been casualties but that the situation had stabilised somewhat after the retreat.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.14am GMT

block-time published-time 10.56am GMT

Ukraine military says it repelled Russian offensive on southern front

Ukrainian forces repelled a Russian offensive on the southern front after the withdrawal of Kyiv ’s troops from the devastated eastern town of Avdiivka, the Ukrainian military said on Sunday.

According to Reuters, Ukraine’s army top general Oleksandr Syrskyi said on Saturday that Kyiv’s troops withdrew from Avdiivka to avoid encirclement after months of fierce Russian attacks, Moscow ’s biggest advance since its troops captured the city of Bakhmut last May.

“Defence forces in the Zaporizhzhia sector defeated yesterday’s Russian offensive,” Ukrainian military said on Telegram messaging app. The military said 18 armoured vehicles including three tanks were destroyed and that the Russians “retreated to their previous positions”.

So far there has been no comment from the Russian side.

The southern Zaporizhzhia direction became the main focus of the Ukrainian counteroffensive in the summer of 2023 although there were no significant breakthroughs and only a few settlements were liberated.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.41pm GMT

block-time published-time 10.33am GMT

UK shadow foreign secretary David Lammy says he would support further sanctions against Russia

The UK ’s shadow foreign secretary, David Lammy has said he would support further sanctions against Russia and added he would “plug the gaps” of existing measures.

He told BBC’s Sunday With Laura Kuenssberg:

The UK has led on sanctions, the issue now is the enforcement of those sanctions and if we do have the privilege to serve, that is the area in which I will look more closely to ensure that there is the proper coordination across both the Foreign Office and the Treasury.

I remain concerned about the dirty money that continues to flow through London, I remain concerned that the full implementation of the Russia report following the interference in our elections and the work of our select committee have not been fully implemented.

So yes, I think there are gaps and if we are successful, when the general election is held, I intend to plug those gaps.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.42pm GMT

block-time published-time 10.28am GMT

Poland ’s Radek Sikorski has stressed Poland’s support for Ukraine at the third day of the Munich Security Conference, but acknowledged that Warsaw and Kyiv have two problems linked to grain and trucking.

This is difficult because it’s structural.

Responding to the Polish foreign minister on stage, Olha Stefanishyna, Ukraine’s deputy prime minister, said:

We have to solve it. There are legitimate messages on both sides.

I think that the major contribution in resolving these issues has been done by Ukraine, because we secured the Black Sea. And now the grain is easily releasable through the Black Sea. We also have done our steps that we ensured the control of exports to neighbouring countries.

So there are some steps done, but we have to solve it.

block-time published-time 10.22am GMT

Putin says Ukraine 'matter of life and death' for Russia

Events on the battlefield in Ukraine are a matter of “life and death” for Russia that could determine its fate, president Vladimir Putin said in remarks aired Sunday, reports news agency Agence France-Presse (AFP).

The Kremlin has repeatedly framed the almost two-year conflict as a battle for Russia’s survival in a bid to rally patriotic sentiment among its population, many apathetic toward the offensive.

“I think it is still important for us ourselves, and even more so for our listeners and viewers abroad, to understand our way of thinking,” Putin said in an interview with state TV.

“Everything that is happening on the Ukraine front: For them it is an improvement of their tactical position, but for us it is our fate, it is a matter of life and death,” he said.

Putin was responding to a question about a two-hour long interview he gave to US talkshow host Tucker Carlson, which the Kremlin used to promote its narratives on the conflict.

In that interview, Putin talked at length about Russian history and continuously questioned Ukraine’s statehood, drawing ire in both Kyiv and the west.

“For the western listener, the viewer, it was not easy. Even more so for Americans,” Putin said when asked about his long, historical musings in the Carlson interview.

“The history of the US is 300-odd years, and I started in 862. So I think it was not easy for American audiences to understand,” he said.

block-time published-time 9.57am GMT

Responding to US Republican senator JD Vance on a panel at the Munich Security Conference on Sunday, German politician Ricarda Lang pushed back at the idea of a deal with Russia.

Putin has shown over and over again – and he just showed this with the murder of Navalny on Friday – that he has no interest in peace at the moment. That he does not want peace.

So if you say we stop supporting Ukraine, stop giving weapons to them, you are not having some scenario where this leads to peace, but at the moment this leads to two scenarios: either you are prolonging this war, or you give up Ukraine and Putin wins.

block-time published-time 9.49am GMT

More than 400 people detained in Russia as they paid tribute to opposition leader Alexei Navalny

A prominent rights group says more than 400 people have been detained in Russia while paying tribute to opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who died at a remote Arctic penal colony, reports news agency the Associated Press (AP).

The sudden death of the 47-year-old Navalny was a crushing blow to many Russians, who had pinned their hopes for the future on president Vladimir Putin ’s fiercest foe.

Navalny remained vocal in his unrelenting criticism of the Kremlin even after surviving a nerve agent poisoning and receiving multiple prison terms. Hundreds of people in dozens of Russian cities streamed to ad-hoc memorials and monuments to victims of political repressions with flowers and candles on Friday and Saturday to pay a tribute to the politician. In more than 12 cities, police detained 401 people by Saturday night, according to the OVD-Info rights group that tracks political arrests and provides legal aid.

More than 200 arrests were made in St Petersburg, Russia ’s second largest city, the group said. Among those detained there was Grigory Mikhnov-Voitenko, a priest of the Apostolic orthodox church – a religious group independent of the Russia n orthodox church – who announced plans on social media to hold a memorial service for Navalny and was arrested on Saturday morning outside his home. He was charged with organising a rally and placed in a holding cell in a police precinct, but was later hospitalised with a stroke, OVD-Info reported.

According to AP, courts in St Petersburg have ordered 42 of those detained on Friday to serve from one to six days in jail, while nine others were fined, court officials said late on Saturday. In Moscow, at least six people were ordered to serve 15 days in jail, according to OVD-Info. One person was also jailed in the southern city of Krasnodar and two more in the city of Bryansk, the group said.

The news of Navalny’s death came a month before a presidential election in Russia that is widely expected to give Putin another six years in power. Questions about the cause of death lingered on Sunday, and it remained unclear when the authorities would release his body to his family.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.55am GMT

block-time published-time 9.22am GMT

Republican senator says Putin not existential threat to Europe

JD Vance, the Republican senator from Ohio, said he believes Donald Trump doesn’t want to abandon Europe, but “is actually issuing a wake up call to say that Europe has to take a bigger role in its own security.”

Speaking at the third day of the Munich Security Conference, he added: “I do not think that Vladimir Putin is an existential threat to Europe, and to the extent that he is, again, that suggests that Europe has to take a more aggressive role in its own security.”

The limiting factor for US support to Ukraine, Vance argued, is “not money, it’s munitions.”

We don’t make enough munitions to support a war in eastern Europe, a war in the Middle East and potentially contingency in East Asia. So the United States is fundamentally limited.

block-time published-time 9.19am GMT

'Russia will continue to be a threat for Europe', says UK shadow foreign secretary as he calls for UK-EU security pact

David Lammy, the UK shadow foreign secretary, said on stage at the Munich Security Conference that he wants a new security pact between the EU and the UK.

He said:

Of course I’m hoping that there is a general election this year and I have the privilege of becoming the UK foreign secretary, because it’s absolutely fundamental that the United Kingdom and Europe have the closest of relationships and the Brexit era is over, the situation is settled.

And what my party is proposing is a new EU-UK security pact. And it’s a pact that is effectively built on the fact that we obviously have war here in Europe.

But the truth is, and it’s important that we summon up to the room the courage of Alexei Navalny – what it reminds is that not withstanding that war, Russia will continue to be a threat for Europe for months, years, perhaps a generation more.

And that means that the defence capability of the UK, alongside our partners in France particularly representing about 50% of Europe’s defence capability, but also the intelligence capability of the Five Eyes system in partnership with the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, is absolutely essential, and is why we need now a new security pact.

Now, that security pact is not to rival Nato, it is to run in parallel with Nato.

block-time published-time 9.13am GMT

Here are some key points related to Russia - Ukraine from the second day of the Munich Security Conference on Saturday. The annual event brings together policymakers from across the globe for discussions on security. The day focused heavily on Russia’s war in Ukraine and the war in the Middle East.

*

The chief topic of conversation among the western defence establishment inside the gilded Hotel Bayerischer Hof was whether Ukraine’s problems are fixable – the answer is mainly yes – but only if the west has the political will to act.

*

Speaking at the conference, the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, said Europeans need to do much more on security.

*

Volodymyr Zelenskiy, the Ukrainian president, told the conference participants that “2024 must become a time for a full restoration of a rules-based world order.”

*

The Ukrainian leader said that if Donald Trump visits Ukraine he would be ready to go with him to the frontline.

*

Zelenskiy also told world leaders not to fear Vladimir Putin ’s defeat.

*

The European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, said the EU “has to step up its defence industrial base.”

*

David Cameron, the British foreign secretary, signalled that there would be “consequences” in the wake of the death of Alexei Navalny.

*

Germany’s Scholz said he was really depressed to hear of Navalny’s death.

*

Antony Blinken, the US secretary of state, warned against “dehumanisation.”

*

Wang Yi, China’s foreign minister, said in Munich that Beijing wants to be a force for stability and that China and Europe should avoid “ideological distractions.”

*

In a speech today in Hungary, the country’s prime minister, Viktor Orbán, said it is on course to ratify Sweden’s accession at the beginning of its parliament’s spring session, which begins on 26 February.

block-time published-time 8.53am GMT

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Saturday he had discussed the prospects for peace in Kyiv ’s nearly two-year-old war against Russia with his Chinese counterpart, part of a long-running bid to bolster relations with Beijing.

“I met with my Chinese counterpart Wang Yi to discuss bilateral relations, trade, and the need to restore a just and lasting peace in Ukraine,” Kuleba wrote on X of their talks at the Munich Security Conference.

Kuleba said he had discussed Ukraine’s plans to hold a global peace summit, which Switzerland has agreed to help stage. The two men, he said, “agreed on the need to maintain Ukraine-China contacts at all levels and continue our dialogue”.

enltrI met with my Chinese counterpart Wang Yi to discuss bilateral relations, trade, and the need to restore a just and lasting peace in Ukraine.

I informed Foreign Minister Wang Yi about Ukraine’s vision for the upcoming Global Peace Summit in Switzerland.

We agreed on the need… pic.twitter.com/O6ZZOgjUVK[https://t.co/O6ZZOgjUVK]

— Dmytro Kuleba (@DmytroKuleba) February 17, 2024[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1758926484490641673?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

China has attended at least one of the preparatory meetings that have taken place in anticipation of such a summit.

Reuters reports that the Chinese foreign ministry has yet to release details on Wang ’s talks with Kuleba. But, in his public remarks to the conference, Wang said China had persisted in promoting peace talks and in playing a positive role in restoring peace, according to a statement from the ministry released on Sunday.

Ukraine has sought to enhance ties with Beijing and bring China onside for Kyiv ’s 10-point peace plan which focuses on a withdrawal of Russian troops from occupied territory, the restoration of 1991 post-Soviet borders and a framework to bring Moscow to account for its actions.

China, which has been pursing a “strategic partnership” with Russia, proposed a peace plan of its own last year calling for a ceasefire, negotiations and an end to sanctions against Russia. But the plan made little headway.

“China is not the creator of the Ukraine crisis, nor is it a party, but we have not merely watched the ‘fire’ on the other side, nor have we taken advantage of the opportunity to benefit [from the situation],” Wang said at the conference, according to the ministry’s statement.

Ukraine negotiations should restart as soon as possible to reduce losses on both sides, Wang told the conference. “As long as there is still a glimmer of hope for peace, we will not give up,” he said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.57am GMT

block-time published-time 8.45am GMT

Also, the Guardian’s Moscow correspondent Andrew Roth has written about how the Kremlin are playing for time after Alexei Navalny[https://www.theguardian.com/world/alexei-navalny] ’s death. You can read the piece here:

In Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia], it is not enough to kill an opposition leader. His ageing mother must travel to the Arctic Circle to search a prison colony and a morgue for his body. Russians with the temerity to lay carnations in his memory must be detained.

Even a preliminary cause of death, “sudden death syndrome”, was misleading, as though his death behind bars was not years in the making.

All this happened the day after Alexei Navalny[https://www.theguardian.com/world/alexei-navalny] died, as the bureaucratic machinery of the vast Russian state swung into gear, brushing over the Kremlin critic’s death with a veneer of official disdain and petty cruelty.

“It’s obvious that they are lying and doing everything they can to avoid handing over the body,” said Kira Yarmysh, Navalny’s press secretary, as 69-year-old Lyudmila, his mother, and a lawyer battled to retrieve his body in the city of Salekhard.

Related: ‘They’re doing everything to avoid handing over his body’: Kremlin plays for time after Navalny’s death[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/17/kremlin-plays-for-time-after-alexei-navalny-death]

block-time published-time 8.35am GMT

My colleague, the Observer’s Jon Ungoed-Thomas has written about a new scheme which means Ukrainians can extend their UK visas by 18 months. You can read the piece here:

Ukrainians who sought sanctuary in the UK after the Russian invasion will be permitted to extend their visas for an extra 18 months, the Home Office has announced.

More than 200,000 Ukrainians visa holders have arrived in the UK since March 2022, with the first visas to expire in March next year. The Home Office said that the new scheme would provide “certainty and assurance” for Ukrainians in the UK.

This weekend, the government appealed for more British families to come forward to sponsor Ukrainians. But the Local Government Association (LGA) sounded a note of caution, urging the government to review the financial support for Ukrainians facing the risk of homelessness.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/nov/21/ukrainian-refugee-families-in-uk-at-risk-of-homelessness-this-winter]

Related: Ukrainians can extend UK visas by 18 months in new scheme[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/18/ukrainians-can-extend-uk-visas-by-18-months-in-new-scheme]

block-time published-time 8.29am GMT

Ukraine ’s forces destroyed 12 Russia -launched attack drones overnight as well as one Kh-59 cruise missile and one SU-34 fighter-bomber, Ukraine’s air force commander said on Sunday, reports Reuters.

“I want to thank air force units for their successful combat work!” Mykola Oleshchuk wrote on the Telegram messaging app. “Have a nice day everyone!”

Reuters could not independently verify the report.

block-time published-time 8.19am GMT

Opening summary

It has gone 10am in Kyiv and 11am in Moscow. This is our latest Guardian blog on the war in Ukraine.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has called the capture of Avdiivka “an important victory” after Ukraine’s military chief said on Saturday that his troops withdrew from the devastated town in the east of the country after months of intense combat.

Although the Russian defence ministry said that Ukrainian units were still entrenched at the town’s coke plant, the advance on Avdiivka was Moscow’s biggest advance since it took the city of Bakhmut last May.

It is also the clearest sign yet of how the tide of the war has turned in Moscow’s favour after a Ukrainian counteroffensive failed to break through Russian lines last year.

“The head of state congratulated Russian soldiers on this success, an important victory,” the Kremlin said in a statement on its website.

US President Joe Biden meanwhile said he had told his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskiy he was “confident” the US Congress would renew war aid, but added that without American help Kyiv could lose further territory to Russian advances.

Failure by US lawmakers to approve new funding for military aid to Kyiv would be “absurd” and “unethical,” Biden told reporters after attending church in Delaware, adding: “I’m going to fight to get them the ammunition they need.”

In other key developments:

*

Volodymyr Zelenskiy issued a desperate plea for fresh arms[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/17/volodymyr-zelenskiy-pleads-for-more-arms-as-frontline-ukrainian-city-falls] on Saturday. He told the Munich Security Conference that the slowing of weapons supplies was having a direct impact on the frontline and was forcing Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] to cede territory.

*

Zelenskiy also told world leaders not to ask when the Ukraine war will end but instead “why is Putin still able to continue it” as he underlined the threat Russia poses beyond his own country and called for more support.

*

A number of Ukrainian troops were captured by Russia during their withdrawal from the town of Avdiivka[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/17/volodymyr-zelenskiy-pleads-for-more-arms-as-frontline-ukrainian-city-falls], Oleksandr Tarnavskiy, the Ukrainian commander responsible for forces in Ukraine’s south-east, has said.

*

The Russian defence ministry said on Sunday that Ukrainian forces had left Avdiivka and were entrenched at the nearby Avdiivka coke and chemical plant in Ukraine’s Donetsk region. “Measures are being taken to completely clear the city of militants and to block Ukrainian units that have left the city and are entrenched at the Avdiivka Coke and Chemical Plant,” spokesperson Igor Konashenkov said in a video published on the ministry’s Telegram channel.

*

Russian forces shelled and fired missiles at a series of cities in eastern Ukraine on Saturday, killing at least three peopleand leaving others under the rubble of shattered buildings, Ukrainian officials said. Two cities close to the frontline in eastern Ukraine’s Donetsk region – Kramatorsk and Slovyansk – came under fire. And farther north in the town of Kupiansk one person was killed when a two-storey house was struck by Russian shells, the governor of Kharkiv region said.

*

Ukrainian forces shot down three Russian warplanes over eastern Ukraine on Saturday, the country’s air force chief has said. This claim has not been independently verified.

*

Kamala Harris[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/kamala-harris] on Saturday criticised Donald Trump’s cajoling of Russia to attack Nato allies[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2024/feb/11/donald-trump-says-he-would-encourage-russia-to-attack-nato-countries-who-dont-pay-bills] of the US who don’t pay their dues, saying the American people would never accept a president who bowed to a dictator. “The idea that the former president of the US would say that he – quote – encourages a brutal dictator to invade our allies, and that the United States of America would simply stand by and watch,” Harris said. “No previous US president, regardless of their party, has bowed down to a Russian dictator before.”

*

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Saturday he had discussed the prospects for peace with his Chinese counterpart, part of a long-running bid to bolster relations with Beijing. Kuleba said he had discussed with China’s top diplomat Wang Yi about Ukraine’s plans to hold a global peace summit, which Switzerland has agreed to help stage.

*

Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny’s mother and his lawyer were told on Saturday that he had been struck down by “sudden death syndrome”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/17/kremlin-plays-for-time-after-alexei-navalny-death], his team has said. Another lawyer of Navalny’s, however, was told by the penal colony’s investigative committee that the cause of death had not yet been established, Navalny’s spokesperson said.

*

G7 foreign ministers have demanded that Russia fully clarify the circumstances surrounding Navalny’s death. The foreign ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US met in Munich on Saturday[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/feb/17/alexei-navalny-death-confirmed-official-cause-of-death-disputed].

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020240218ek2i000ru


Insight EU Monitoring - Premium Digest
13839 字
2024 年 2 月 20 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2024. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Ukraine/Denmark: Another round of negotiations on bilateral security agreement

* Russia: Meeting of the Government Coordination Council on the needs of the Russian Armed Forces

* The Netherlands to co-host international conference ‘Restoring Justice for Ukraine’

* UN Security Council: The UK calls for calm dialogue to de-escalate the situation in Somalia

* Making A.I. available to all – and to avoid Big Tech’s monopoly – Vestager

* Europol: EU Commissioner Johansson at the Joint Parliamentary Scrutiny Group

* Sweden: Statement by Minister for Foreign Affairs Tobias Billström

* Nuclear tests: EU Statement at the 62nd Session of CTBTO Working Group B

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 16 February 2024

* Main results of the EU Foreign Affairs Council, 19 February 2024

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 16 February 2024

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 16 February 2024

* New legislative project to be launched to combat instrumentalised migration

* Alexei Navalny’s death: Statement by EU HR Borrell on behalf of the EU

* Norway assists in scheme for crucial financial transfers from Israel to Palestine

* EU Commission endorses Czechia’s €702m RRF payment

* EU Commission opens formal proceedings against TikTok under the DSA

* EU and Rwanda sign a MoU on sustainable raw materials value chains

* Belarus: EU Council conclusions confirm EU’s unwavering support for democracy and human rights

* Security in the Red Sea: EU Council launches EUNAVFOR ASPIDES

* Humanitarian action: EU introduces further exception to sanctions

* Foreign Affairs Council: Press remarks by EU HRVP Borrell upon arrival

Ukraine/Denmark: Another round of negotiations on bilateral security agreement[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ukraine-denmark-another-round-of-negotiations-on-bilateral-security-agreement/428834/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 20, 2024 03:14 am

Kyiv, 19 February 2024

Pursuant to the agreements reached by President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Prime Minister of Denmark Mette Frederiksen during their meeting at the Munich Security Conference, Ukraine held another round of negotiations with Denmark on a bilateral agreement on security cooperation and long-term support.

The Ukrainian delegation was headed by Deputy Head of the Presidential Office Ihor Zhovkva. The Danish delegation was headed by Lisbet Zilmer-Johns, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

The interlocutors discussed specific thematic blocks of the bilateral document and coordinated the final steps in the preparation of the respective agreement with a view to concluding the agreement soon.

Source – President of Ukraine[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/ukrayina-provela-chergovij-raund-peregovoriv-iz-daniyeyu-sho-89105]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ukraine-denmark-another-round-of-negotiations-on-bilateral-security-agreement/428834/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Russia: Meeting of the Government Coordination Council on the needs of the Russian Armed Forces[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/russia-meeting-of-the-government-coordination-council-on-the-needs-of-the-russian-armed-forces/428832/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 20, 2024 02:44 am

Moscow, 19 February 2024

Mikhail Mishustin:

“I ask you to intensify the process of upgrading existing combat systems as much as possible. This much-needed work allows our defence industrial complex to improve the effectiveness of vehicles and equipment on the battlefield and, as a result, save many lives, both in the military and those of civilians they protect.”

Mikhail Mishustin’s opening remarks

Good afternoon, colleagues.

Today’s meeting of the Coordination Council is taking place in run-up to Defender of the Fatherland Day, which we have marked for over 100 years. I would like to warm-heartedly congratulate all of our defenders on the upcoming holiday. You too, colleagues. All the best.

Today Russia once again has to confront unfriendly actions. And we must, of course, provide our military on the frontline with comprehensive support, from weapons, to social assistance, and on to advanced means of rehabilitation.

This year, in addition to the increased volume of production, we also have to increase the supplies of almost all material and technical resources.

At the same time, it is necessary to continue to improve the test pieces used in the special military operation zone. We are talking about dozens of projects. New items have now begun to reach the troops.

This much-needed work allows our defence industrial complex to improve the effectiveness of vehicles and equipment on the battlefield and, as a result, save many lives, both in the military and those of civilians they protect. Therefore, I ask you to intensify the process of upgrading existing combat systems as much as possible, including by expanding their functionality.

An equally important area is the organisation of peace-time life and construction. In the autumn of 2022, the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, Zaporozhye and Kherson regions became part of Russia. The President instructed us to integrate them into Russia’s common socioeconomic space and bring them to the national level in all respects.

We have launched a comprehensive development programme for these regions, which includes the economy, infrastructure, healthcare, education, culture, and sports.

A specialised state programme has also been approved.

Over this period, more than 18,000 facilities were restored there, including 6,500 residential buildings and social institutions, as well as more than 2,000 km of roads.

Fortifications were erected and strengthened, both along the line of military contact of troops and along the border territories. This work continues.

I would also like to discuss material and social support for our service personnel. A presidential executive order has established the Defenders of the Fatherland State Fund. The range of its projects has expanded considerably in early February, including efforts to monitor the complete provision of high-quality support for veterans and families of personnel involved in the special military operation.

We will now allocate an 18 billion-plus rouble grant to help our service personnel and their families address various situations in life. First of all, this implies the purchase of medical items and technical rehabilitation systems for those discharged from military service, as well as restoring documents, training and retraining programmes, as well as job placement. The President recently discussed these issues at a meeting with our service personnel.

I am asking the Ministry of Labour to oversee a targeted and cost-effective disbursement of funding. Support for defenders is our common objective, and we must address it in a highly responsible manner.

Several other decisions deal with members of volunteer units. The Government has modified regulations for calculating and paying monthly benefits to the families of those now defending the country’s interests. Those giving birth to children and raising them will receive these benefits.

Now, when calculating the average per capita income to determine the right to a single benefit, one-time payments made to compensate for damage caused to life and health in connection with participation in a special military operation will not be taken into account.

We have also signed a resolution noting that National Guard of Russia volunteers are eligible for standard war veteran certificates, as well as privileges and benefits stipulated by the law. This includes property tax, 50-percent compensation for utility payments and free commuter train tickets. In addition, they are entitled to monthly cash payments.

The President has instructed us to analyse the regulatory framework and law enforcement practice, as regards all measures for assisting personnel involved in the special military operation and providing them with documents once again. We should also submit proposals on expediting and streamlining the relevant procedures. It is important to provide equal social guarantees and insurance payments to volunteers working in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions. We need to discuss this issue and, if necessary, draft proposals on common approaches towards providing similar forms of support to members of volunteer units.

Of course, we must complete this work as soon as possible.

Colleagues,

Today, we will review the results of implementing earlier decisions, and we will specify areas where we should exert additional efforts for accomplishing presidential objectives.

I would like to ask the heads of working groups to report on the current situation.

Source – The Russian Government: http://government.ru/en/news/50914/[http://government.ru/en/news/50914/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/russia-meeting-of-the-government-coordination-council-on-the-needs-of-the-russian-armed-forces/428832/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

The Netherlands to co-host international conference ‘Restoring Justice for Ukraine’[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/the-netherlands-to-co-host-international-conference-restoring-justice-for-ukraine/428830/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 20, 2024 02:01 am

The Hague, 19 February 2024

On 2 April 2024, the Netherlands, Ukraine and the European Commission will co-host the international conference ‘Restoring Justice for Ukraine’ at the World Forum in The Hague. Foreign ministers and justice ministers from countries involved in the fight for justice for Ukraine since the start of the conflict will be able to voice their support for long-term efforts to tackle impunity and compensate victims.

Russian aggression

For almost two years now, Ukraine has been resisting unprecedented Russian aggression. Day after day, the Russian regime continues its attacks on schools, hospitals and other civilian objects, resulting in civilian casualties. Those living in occupied regions recount stories of torture, rape and abduction by the Russians. The Netherlands and a large group of other countries believe that this must not go unpunished, and that justice must be achieved for all the victims.

About the conference

One aim of the conference is to take stock of the substantial progress made so far in documenting and investigating these crimes. Another aim is to achieve further progress on the four tiers of item 7 of President Zelenskyy’s ten-point peace plan, on which – at Ukraine’s request – the Netherlands is playing a leading role:

* support for Ukrainian investigation and prosecution of international crimes at national level;

* investigation and prosecution of international crimes at international level, including the crime of aggression;

* reparation of harm suffered;

* international coordination, cooperation and information-sharing.

Alongside representatives of the Netherlands, Ukraine, the European Commission and the invited countries, representatives of the International Criminal Court, the Council of Europe, the Register of Damage for Ukraine, Eurojust, the International Centre for the Prosecution of the Crime of Aggression against Ukraine, the Ukraine Joint Investigation Team and non-governmental organisations will be present.

Truth and justice for Ukraine

The Netherlands believes it is of vital importance that truth and justice be achieved both for Ukraine and for all victims of Russia’s aggression. This is why the Netherlands supports various initiatives in this regard, such as the investigations by the International Criminal Court and the Ukrainian public prosecution service into international crimes committed in Ukraine. In addition, the Netherlands has sent four forensic investigation missions to Ukraine under the banner of the International Criminal Court. The Netherlands is also the host state of the Register of Damage for Ukraine and the International Centre for the Prosecution of the Crime of Aggression against Ukraine (ICPA), which are based in The Hague. Under certain conditions, including broad international political and financial support and sufficient capacity, the Netherlands will also host a future special aggression tribunal in The Hague. Furthermore, because the various international initiatives must be aligned, the Netherlands is working for more effective coordination and information-sharing, including via the Dialogue Group on Accountability for Ukraine[https://www.government.nl/latest/news/2023/03/03/minister-hoekstra-launches-dialogue-group-on-accountability-for-ukraine].

In July 2022 the Netherlands hosted the Ukraine Accountability Conference[https://www.government.nl/latest/news/2022/07/14/ukraine-accountability-conference] in order to better connect, coordinate and organise the accountability efforts being undertaken by various countries and organisations.

Source – Government of the Netherlands[https://www.government.nl/latest/news/2024/02/19/the-netherlands-to-co-host-international-conference-restoring-justice-for-ukraine]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/the-netherlands-to-co-host-international-conference-restoring-justice-for-ukraine/428830/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

UN Security Council: The UK calls for calm dialogue to de-escalate the situation in Somalia[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/un-security-council-the-uk-calls-for-calm-dialogue-to-de-escalate-the-situation-in-somalia/428823/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 20, 2024 01:50 am

London, 19 February 2024

Statement by Ambassador James Kariuki at the UN Security Council meeting on Somalia.

Thank you President, I thank SRSG Liang and Special Representative Souef for their briefing and I pay tribute to the work of their teams in Somalia. I also welcome the participation of the Permanent Representative of Somalia at our meeting.

President let me first address the Ethiopia-Somaliland Memorandum of Understanding. As we have said previously, the United Kingdom reaffirms its support for Somalia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.

The UK is a close friend and longstanding partner to both Somalia and Ethiopia, and we are continuing to engage with both governments directly.

The UK calls for calm dialogue to de-escalate the situation and expresses its support for mediation efforts, including the work of IGAD and the AU.

Turning to the situation in Somalia more broadly, the UK notes that the Somali Parliament has begun to debate constitutional amendments outlined in previous National Consultative Council agreements, and urges the Federal Government to pursue a consultative and consensus-building approach to ensure this process has broad-based support among Somalis.

President, this year represents a milestone in Somalia’s security transition. After 15 years of truly courageous service the current AU and UN missions are due to leave at the end of the year.

We look forward to receiving an update from Somalia next month on its requirements into 2025 and beyond, and we encourage the UN and AU to work together closely on next steps ahead of the mandate renewal in June.

We recognise the funding problems AMISOM and ATMIS have faced. As we have said many times, the UK has tried to play its part in solving them.

But we are approaching a critical juncture. Somalia, the AU, UN and partners have invested so much to get to where we are today.

We do not want this progress to go to waste. So, we encourage all Somalia’s partners to continue to support Somalia throughout its security transition and to think about creative ways to maintain support post-ATMIS and UNSOS. If we do not, it will be Al-Shabaab who benefit.

Finally, President, Somalia’s changing security landscape presents significant humanitarian risks alongside an already severe and protracted humanitarian crisis.

It is therefore deeply concerning that the Humanitarian Response Plan remains significantly underfunded.

The UK urges donors to contribute to the plan, to address the urgent unmet need in Somalia.

Any alteration or decision on Somalia’s security must not compromise protection of civilian and humanitarian access.

I thank you.

Source – UK Government[https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/the-uk-calls-for-calm-dialogue-to-de-escalate-the-situation-in-somalia-uk-statement-at-the-un-security-council]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/un-security-council-the-uk-calls-for-calm-dialogue-to-de-escalate-the-situation-in-somalia/428823/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Making A.I. available to all – and to avoid Big Tech’s monopoly – Vestager[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/making-a-i-available-to-all-and-to-avoid-big-techs-monopoly-vestager/428826/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 20, 2024 01:10 am

Brussels, 19 February 2024

“Check against delivery”

Good afternoon.

Let me start by thanking Stéphanie Yon-Courtin for organising this important event. As Competition Commissioner, I have been very pleased with your interest and dedication to competition policies over the last five years in the European Parliament.

Thank you for putting the spotlight on Artificial Intelligence and competition. Because ‘humanintelligence’ is exactly what we need right now, to strike the right balance on intelligence of theartificialkind. In order to shape the emerging markets that are enabled by Large Language Models and other applications in AI. To make sure that competition can thrive, and consumers reap the benefits of these new markets, without hampering their development.

By thinking ahead, by acting swiftly and by cooperating, we have a window of opportunity to maximise these benefits; while at the same time, minimising the risks. But that window is closing. If we don’t act soon, we will find ourselves, once again, chasing solutions to problems we did not anticipate. So debates like this one are not only very timely, they are also urgent.

In some ways, this feels very much like the early-2000s (“two-thousands”), at the start of the first Digital Decade: At first, we saw what the raw technologies linked to “Web 2.0” could do, and it was pretty cool: Social media, digital television, digital marketplaces. Pretty soon, digital disruption was radically changing how we book flights for a city break, where we stay and how we decide what to eat when we get there.

This first wave of disruption was good for competition – we saw this at the start of the first Digital Decade: as markets became digital, new services emerged, choice increased and the quality kept getting better. The competition problems came, but it wasn’t until the Second Digital Decade – around 2014 – that the need to act became clear. It’s worth saying that it was the EU that led on this. Others jurisdictions are still catching up.

If the development of AI mirrors this history, then the right response is to phase in competition control gradually, in line with market growth. To respond faster than we did for Web 2.0, but to still give some time for the benefits of disruption to fully play out.

The question is: is the AI revolution going to follow the same history as Web 2.0? I have my doubts. In 2005, web entrepreneurs were true pioneers, exploring an uncharted frontier. When Evan Williams and Jack Dorsey set up Twitter in 2006, they didn’t even know what to call this kind of service, much less understand its impact. The same was true of Facebook, PayPal, YouTube and dozens more companies that competed in that early ‘gold rush’. Scaling up was possible, because there was plenty of uncharted land, on which to stake your claim.

This is not what we are seeing today. As we begin the Third Digital Decade, the development of AI isn’t happening in a vacuum. And it isn’t being driven only by pioneers, university students or small research facilities. Many of the key actors here are incumbents, with power in multiple markets where AI is likely to play a role.

Another key difference is the perception of what will happen next. Two decades ago, almost no one predicted how much social media would change the world and the economy. Even the innovators themselves were surprised by how big and how deep their companies could go. For Artificial Intelligence, the consensus is clear: this is a transformative technology; one that will change the way we work, the way we learn, the way we buy and sell – even the way we think. It will touch virtually every aspect of the economy, and it won’t take long for these effects to be felt.

Finally, there is the nature of the technology itself. Large Language Models depend on huge amounts of data, they depend on cloud space, and they depend on chips. There are barriers to entry everywhere. Add to this the fact that the Tech Giants have the resources to acquire the best and brightest talent. We’re not going to see disruption driven by a handful of college drop-outs who somehow manage to outperform Microsoft’s partner Open AI or Google’s DeepMind. The disruption from AI will come from within the nest of existing tech ecosystems.

Still, we can make an impact.

For me, the very first lesson from our experience so far is that our impact will always be greatest when we work together, communicate clearly, and act early on. That is why our call for contributions on Competition in Virtual Worlds and Generative AI is so important. The deadline is in a few weeks (11 March): So there is still time to make your voices heard. Beyond this, I will continue to engage with my counterparts in the United States and elsewhere, to align our approach as much as possible.

A second lesson we’ve learned is that digital markets are wide-reaching, sometimes affecting the economy in ways you might not have expected. So we have to look carefully at vertical integration and at ecosystems. We have to take account of the impact of AI in how we assess mergers. We even have to think about how AI might lead to new kinds of algorithmic collusion.

A third lesson is that competition policy has to work together with digital regulation in this fast paced, dynamic economy. The Digital Markets Act is a new approach to preserving a level playing field online. It is born out of our years of experience with antitrust enforcement. And it is designed to go hand-in-hand with the continued use of traditional competition policy instruments.

The same has to be true for AI. How well these markets work will depend on a number of different regulatory parameters. For instance, there are still big questions around how intellectual property rights are respected. About how ethical AI is deployed. About areas where AI should never be deployed. In each of these decisions, there is a competition policy dimension that needs to be considered. Conversely, how AI regulation is enforced will affect the openness and accessibility of the markets it impacts.

There are questions around input neutrality and the influence such systems could have on our democracies. A Large Language Model is only as good as the inputs it receives, and for this there must always be a discretionary element. Do we really want our opinion-making to be reliant on AI systems that are under the control – not of the European people – but of tech oligarchs and their shareholders?

There’s no way I can answer all these questions right now – I wouldn’t dare to try. Thankfully, tonight we have an opportunity to listen to some of the best voices in the field. With their help, I’m confident we’ll move closer to the right set of solutions. Solutions that will allow this exciting new disruption to take root in Europe, in a way that is truly beneficial to our economy, to our citizens and to our democracies.

Our window of opportunity to shape this outcome won’t stay open for long. It’s up to us to seize it.

Thank you.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/SPEECH_24_931]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/making-a-i-available-to-all-and-to-avoid-big-techs-monopoly-vestager/428826/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Europol: EU Commissioner Johansson at the Joint Parliamentary Scrutiny Group[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/europol-eu-commissioner-johansson-at-the-joint-parliamentary-scrutiny-group/428824/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 20, 2024 12:59 am

Brussels, 19 February 2024

“Check against delivery”

It’s great to meet in this inspiring location, at this important moment in time. A time when the threat posed by organised crime, drugs crime is bigger than ever.

Last year: more than 600 explosions in the Netherlands. In Sweden, 350 shootings, killing 53 people. And more than 300 children aged 15 to 17 charged with murder or attempted murder in Sweden alone. Children killing children.

50% of murders in the European Union are linked to drugs and drugs trafficking. Drug traffickers killed a journalist, a lawyer in the Netherlands and are threatening politicians in several Member States. These are direct attacks on our democracies.

It’s time to realise: Organised crime is as big a threat to society, as terrorism. And we have to counter this threat with the same determination. And so it’s good that the last four years the EU has made big steps forward on security. Much bigger steps than anyone expected four years ago when we started this mandate. And to a very large part, that’s thanks to Europol.

One recent big step forward is the European Ports Alliance. A public private partnership in the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking. Because it takes a network to fight a network.

Minister Verlinden was there at the launch. Annelies, we have already built up an excellent cooperation in the fight against drugs crime. We travelled to South America together. And I look forward to continuing our work under your Presidency.

And Catherine De Bolle was there. Catherine, one of the great honours of my mandate so far was to work with you as Executive Director of Europol on our shared mission to keep Europe safe.

Europol is key to the Ports Alliance. And we’re building a network also across the Atlantic, from where the drugs depart for Europe. I’ve visited Colombia and Ecuador. And 14 Latin American interior ministers came to Brussels last September. Ecuador started a working arrangement with Europol last October.

Resulting last week in a first joint operational success against a cocaine trafficking network. 31 arrests in Spain and Ecuador. Two criminal bosses arrested – high value targets. Nearly 50 million euro in property frozen. And agreements to exchange personal data with Europol are now being negotiated with Ecuador, with Bolivia, with Brazil, with Mexico and with Peru.

To take the cooperation to the next level. And progress in these negotiations is good. In the last four years we had to deal with unexpected threats. Covid of course.

And war. War is a catastrophe for people but an opportunity for criminals. We were faced with the unexpected security risks caused by Russia’s war of aggression in Ukraine. Risks that are on your agenda today.

Trafficking in human beings. Criminals targeting vulnerable women and children for sexual exploitation. We are countering this threat. Working with Member States, Ukraine, the EU anti trafficking coordinator, Diane Schmitt here with us today. And Europol of course.

Europol is vital in the fight against trafficking of human beings. Offering analysis, financial crime investigation and linking up national expertise and investigations.

So far there are relatively few victims of trafficking among refugees from Ukraine. But we have to stay vigilant.

And a potential threat resulting from Putin’s war: the trafficking of firearms. We just heard the question here on that topic. Criminals hoping to smuggle weapons from the battlefield – as happened after the war in the Balkans.

Europol has an excellent operational cooperation with Ukraine and the Ukrainian police. They are a key partner for the Commission in working with Ukraine to counter the spread of firearms.

nd so far, we don’t see many firearms entering the EU –our cooperation with the Ukrainians is excellent.

But of course this could change, especially when the war one day is over. So this is why we have to continue to build a very striong cooperation in this topic,

Europol is the beating heart of police cooperation and information exchange in Europe. And in the last four years I made sure to stress this role in all the legislation and initiatives I put forward. For example: plugging Europol into the Prüm network for police information exchange – which was voted into law just two weeks ago by the European Parliament.

And that will allow for faster, more efficient and more kinds of police data checks. But our biggest step forward for Europol is the adoption of the new mandate that I proposed. Allowing Europol to meet the new challenges of our time. And better support Member States’ police. Confirming Europol is allowed to process big data. With a reinforced data protection framework as well as stronger oversight.

Crucial for today’s criminal investigations. Like the arrest of a Croatian narco boss last October in Istanbul. The arrest of this high value target followed an investigation into large scale cocaine trafficking, an investigation supported by Europol with information exchange, analytical support and operational support.

Or the arrest of five suspected far right terrorists after an international operation supported by Europol. The suspects were accused of sharing extremist propaganda and manuals for printing 3D weapons. Or an anti-corruption investigation resulting in the freezing of more than 5 million euro in assets.

In all of these of operations the analysis of big data was key to success. This is not the last of the changes to the mandate. Crime never stops. Law enforcement must stay ahead. A few months ago I launched a global coalition against migrant smuggling. And I also proposed targeted amendments to the Europol Regulation. So Europol can fully support the global fight.

With:

* 50 million extra in budget and fifty new posts for Europol.

* With Eurojust and Frontex liaison officers at the European Centre Against Migrant Smuggling

* And better support through operational taskforces and deployment on the ground.

Necessary changes that I am sure will bring big results in the fight against migrant smugglers.

And I count on your support to make it happen. Last year, more than 3000 people lost their lives in the Mediterranean. The smugglers don’t care at all about the migrants’ lives. We need to fight the smugglers. We need to turn the political commitment to counter smugglers into operational results on the ground. And that’s why we also need this targeted amendment of the regulation.

We will also need Europol to face new challenges, future challenges. The malicious use of artificial intelligence. It’s clear generative AI can do amazing things. Write convincing texts in seconds. Create realistic photos in an instant – and now even video. Last week we saw the launch of Sora – a text to video AI model. All you need to do is write a few sentences, and out comes a video:

* People on a market in Lagos, Nigeria.

* Waves breaking on the cliffs in the golden light of the setting sun.

* There is nothing to suggest it’s not real.

AI can be a real benefit to humanity. Can bring great progress in medicine and science. We’re really only at the beginning of this revolution. But unfortunately right from the start people are also looking for opportunities to corrupt AI, to abuse it for malicious and criminal purposes.

Last December Germany uncovered a Russian disinformation campaign. 50,000 fake accounts spewing out one million messages against the government. That will be so much easier, with AI. And we already see AI being used to commit fraud and even to create child sexual abuse material.

Last year the Internet Watch Foundation found 3000 images of child sexual abuse created by AI. In one month alone. Of these more than 500 were the worst kind: rapes and torture of small children. “Deepfake” is not the right word. Because the rapes are real.

The AI is trained on existing pictures and videos of real rapes of real small children – to create new pictures and new videos of rapes. It is not chat GPT – this is rape GPT. There’s a danger police will be flooded with pictures of fake children – and unable to rescue real children. Because the pictures are already so real. This is only the beginning.

We need to stop the criminal use of AI from spiralling out of control. Europol’s innovation lab organised workshops last years to explore criminal use of AI – and how AI can benefit law enforcement. The new AI Act makes it possible for law enforcement to develop AI to counter terrorism and organised crime and identify victims. We will need AI to fight AI.

And its new mandate allows Europol to develop and test Artificial Intelligence for law enforcement. New horizons for law enforcement, also mean new horizons for you. As elected politicians, you will also be confronted with the impact of disinformation by AI. It is only a matter of time. And as members of this group, you will be part of the debate on how to counter criminal AI. A debate that is only just beginning. I wish you all the best in helping to shape this debate. A debate that will be extremely important for the safety of our citizens.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/SPEECH_24_934]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/europol-eu-commissioner-johansson-at-the-joint-parliamentary-scrutiny-group/428824/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Sweden: Statement by Minister for Foreign Affairs Tobias Billström[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sweden-statement-by-minister-for-foreign-affairs-tobias-billstrom/428819/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 20, 2024 12:18 am

Stockholm, 19 February 2024

The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has today summoned the Russian Ambassador in connection with the death of Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny.

Sweden has today also taken the initiative for the EU to investigate the possibilities for a new sanctions regime targeting the internal repression in Russia.

“The EU must take action against the political oppression in Russia. This is particularly important given the fact that on 16 February, Alexei Navalny died in Russian captivity,” says Minister for Foreign Affairs Tobias Billström.

A sanctions regime of this kind would provide additional opportunities to take action against Russian government representatives and officials involved in human rights violations.

Source – Swedish Government[https://www.government.se/statements/2024/02/statement-by-minister-for-foreign-affairs-tobias-billstrom/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sweden-statement-by-minister-for-foreign-affairs-tobias-billstrom/428819/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Nuclear tests: EU Statement at the 62nd Session of CTBTO Working Group B[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/nuclear-tests-eu-statement-at-the-62nd-session-of-ctbto-working-group-b/428817/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 11:23 pm

Vienna, 19 February 2024

Chair,

I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. The following countries align themselves with this statement: North Macedonia*[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/delegations/vienna-international-organisations/eu-statement-62nd-session-ctbto-working-group-b-delivered-19-february-2024_en#_ftn1], Montenegro*, Serbia*, Albania*, Ukraine, Republic of Moldova, Bosnia and Herzegovina*, Georgia, Iceland+[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/delegations/vienna-international-organisations/eu-statement-62nd-session-ctbto-working-group-b-delivered-19-february-2024_en#_ftn2] and San Marino.

The European Union congratulates you on your re-appointment as Chair of Working Group B, and assures you of our continued support and cooperation. We also thank the Provisional Technical Secretariat (PTS) for the timely preparation of this meeting, in close coordination with the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairpersons and the Working Group B (WGB) Task Leaders.

Chair,

The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty’s (CTBT)[https://www.ctbto.org/our-mission/the-treaty] entry into force and universalisation remain a priority for the EU. We urge all States, which have not yet done so, to sign and ratify the CTBT – in particular the remaining Annex II States – without any preconditions or further delay. Pending CTBT entry into force, the EU calls on all States to abide by the moratorium on nuclear weapon test explosions or any other nuclear explosions, and to refrain from any action contrary to the object and purpose of the Treaty. In this regard, we deeply deplore the unprecedented decision of Russia to revoke its ratification of the CTBT and expect Russia to maintain its contribution to the International Monitoring System (IMS) and data availability through the verification regime.

We reiterate our full confidence in the CTBT’s verification regime, which has demonstrated its ability to provide independent and reliable data that will help to deter non-compliance with the Treaty once it enters into force. We recall that the DPRK is the only country having conducted full-scale nuclear explosive testing in the 21st century. We strongly urge the DPRK to refrain from any further nuclear tests.

Chair,

We thank the Executive Secretary for his opening statement and report on verification related activities for the period July – December 2023 and look forward to the presentations by the PTS Directors and staff of the International Monitoring System (IMS), the International Data Centre (IDC) and On-Site Inspection (OSI) Divisions, on the implementation of the verification related programme.

The EU considers the completion and maintenance of IMS stations a priority and encourages the PTS and States Signatories to cooperate to this end. In this regard, we take note of the certification of auxiliary seismic station AS92, which brings the total number of certified stations to 292. Moreover, ensuring the sustainability and effectiveness of the verification regime, through adequate funding, remains crucial. We encourage the PTS to continue its important operations, including building, certifying, operating and repairing IMS stations. The EU supports the recommendation of the PTS on the relocation of two stations, as their existing configuration is no longer viable. We thank the PTS for circulating the technical strategy for the IMS sustainment (doc. CTBT/PTS/INF.1685) and look forward to further discussion and information during this Session.

The EU reiterates its position that temporary mobile noble gas measurements are essential for the analysis of the IDC in further understanding the global radionuclide background and to facilitate the correct categorization of events. As confirmed by the PTS, this on-going activity is part of, and helps carry out its mandate.

Data availability, including through accurate and timely IDC reports and station reliability is equally essential. The EU strongly regrets that some certified stations do not transmit any data to the IDC in Vienna. The EU welcomes the support provided by the PTS to States Signatories through the “National Data Centres (NDCs) for All” initiative, such as the provision of capacity building systems (CBS), which were procured including voluntary funding provided by the EU.

The EU and its Member States have been one of the largest contributors to the OSI technologies capacity building, through significant financial contributions. We welcome the organisation of regular OSI exercises, including the recent tabletop exercise, the directed exercises and the upcoming Build-Up Exercise 2024 in Hungary. We look forward to the Integrated Field Exercise 2025 (IFE25) in Sri Lanka, which will be a major milestone for the activities of the OSI division and the credibility of the future verification regime. We look forward to receiving further information on the status of PTS preparations and objectives of the IFE25.

The EU, in accordance with our continued political and financial commitment to the Organisation, provides significant voluntary contributions to support the verification regime as well as capacity building and outreach, particularly in developing countries. The Technical Experts Support Programme (TESP) continues to be financed through EU Council Decisions no. VIII and XI. In this regard, we welcome the sustained efforts within the CTBTO towards gender equality and empowerment of all women and girls, including the enhanced participation of female experts in capacity building programmes and WGB activities.

Thank you Chair.

—

*[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/delegations/vienna-international-organisations/eu-statement-62nd-session-ctbto-working-group-b-delivered-19-february-2024_en#_ftnref1] Candidate Countries North Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina continue to be part of the Stabilisation and Association Process.

+[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/delegations/vienna-international-organisations/eu-statement-62nd-session-ctbto-working-group-b-delivered-19-february-2024_en#_ftnref2] Iceland is a member of the EFTA and of the European Economic Area.

Source: Press and information team of the Delegation to UN and OSCE in Vienna[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/taxonomy/term/400300_en?s=66]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/nuclear-tests-eu-statement-at-the-62nd-session-of-ctbto-working-group-b/428817/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 16 February 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-16-february-2024/428740/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 11:00 pm

MARITIME SAFETY

* EU Commission welcomes provisional agreement on tackling ship-source pollution to help make European seas cleaner

* NOAA Presentations at Aquaculture America 2024

ENVIRONMENTAL STATE AID

* EU Commission approves €720 million French State aid scheme to support forestry sector

EMERGENCY INSTRUMENTS

* Einigung auf EU-Notfallinstrument – BMWK

SCHEER

* Public Hearing: SCHEER guidelines on the benefit-risk assessment of the presence of phthalates in certain medical devices

EFSA BRIEFS

* 11th meeting of the FCM Network

* 15th Meeting of the Communications Experts Network

* 19th Meeting of the EFSA BIOCONTAM BIOHAZ BSE-TSE Network

* Preparatory work for the update of the tolerable upper intake levels for iron

* Modification of the terms of authorisation regarding the maximum inclusion level of a feed additive consisting of nonanoic acid for all pigs and poultry species (Anitox Corporation)

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of these content tables that indicate the current topics we are covering.

To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our annual target group full-text services on the Insight EU Store page:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.10 noptimize

/noptimizehttps://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566632081[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566632081] https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566632081[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566632081] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.10

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest[https://ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-16-february-2024/428740/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Main results of the EU Foreign Affairs Council, 19 February 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/main-results-of-the-eu-foreign-affairs-council-19-february-2024/428813/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 10:54 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

Situation in the Middle East

The Foreign Affairs Council launched EUNAVFOR ASPIDES, the EU defensive maritime security operation intended to restore and safeguard freedom of navigation in the Red Sea and the Gulf.

* Security and freedom of navigation in the Red Sea: Council launches EUNAVFOR ASPIDES (press release, 19 February 2024)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/security-and-freedom-of-navigation-in-the-red-sea-council-launches-new-eu-defensive-operation/]

The Council then held a discussion on the situation in the Middle East, with a focus on the humanitarian situation. Member states discussed the issue of an immediate humanitarian pause, and of a planned Israeli military operation in Rafah. They also discussed the need for Israel to do more to facilitate aid and protect civilians.

In this context, ministers exchanged views with the United Nations Senior Humanitarian and Reconstruction Coordinator for Gaza, Sigrid Kaag. Participants discussed with her the support to UNRWA, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees, and it was underlined that discontinuing support would mean the interruption of lifeline services provided by the agency to the Palestinian civilian population not only in Gaza, but also in the West Bank, Lebanon and Jordan.

Russian war of aggression against Ukraine

EU Foreign Affairs Ministers welcomed the intervention of Yulia Navalnaya, and paid tribute to the memory of Alexei Navalny. Ms Navalnaya shared her insight about the level of repression of Putin’s regime and the state of political opposition in the country.

I have proposed to the ministers to rename our Global Human Rights Sanctions regime with his Alexei Navalny’s name. If they agree it will be called “Navalny regime on Global Human Rights sanctions”. This will be a way of keeping his memory alive.

Josep Borrell, High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy

* Russia: Statement by the High Representative on behalf of the European Union on the death of Alexei Navalny (19 February 2024)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/russia-statement-by-the-high-representative-on-behalf-of-the-european-union-on-the-death-of-alexei-navalny/]

The Foreign Affairs Council then discussed the Russian aggression against Ukraine, after a VTC intervention by Ukraine’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba, who briefed his EU counterparts on the latest developments on the ground few days ahead of the sad year mark of two years since the start of Putin’s war of aggression against Ukraine.

The High Representative underlined how Putin continues to target civilian objectives and civilian infrastructure in order to create human suffering among the population and challenge their resilience, and that the EU will continue to support Ukraine.

The Council discussion then focused on the EU security commitments and military support to Ukraine, and discussed the way the EU could increase its provision of ammunition through bilateral and European frameworks.

Ministers also exchanged views on the 13th sanctions package to be adopted before the 24 February, and the use of extraordinary revenues generated by the investment of Russian assets immobilised in the EU.

We expressed our solidarity with the Prime Minister of Estonia, and other politicians and citizens from our member states whom the Russian authorities listed as “wanted” and launched criminal pseudo-investigations against them. This is appalling and adds to Russia’s long track-record of trying to intimidate those who call out Russian violations of international law, human rights and democratic principles.

Josep Borrell, High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy

The Sahel

The Foreign Affairs Council exchanged views on the situation in the Sahel and discussed the guiding principles of an adapted EU approach to the region in line with the approach “African solutions to African problems”:

* continue humanitarian aid in support of the populations

* strengthen cooperation with Chad, Mauritania and Gulf of Guinea countries

* continue support for ECOWAS and regional actors

* have a more transactional approach

* strengthen the EU’s strategic communications to counter false anti-Western narratives

Belarus

Under current affairs, the Foreign Affairs Council touched on Belarus and approved conclusions confirming the EU’s unwavering support civil society, and condemning the current regime for its repression of democracy, disrespect of human rights, and complicity in Russia’s war against Ukraine.

* Belarus: Council conclusions confirm EU’s unwavering support for democracy and human rights (press release, 19 February 2024)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/belarus-council-conclusions-confirm-eu-s-unwavering-support-for-democracy-and-human-rights/]

International Atomic Energy Agency

Before the beginning of the Foreign Affairs Council, EU foreign affairs ministers held an informal exchange of views with Rafael Grossi, IAEA Director General, who briefed ministers about his recent visit to Ukraine and the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant as well as on broader IAEA work strands. Ministers also referred to the prospects for closer EU-IAEA collaboration ahead of the first-ever Nuclear Energy Summit to be organised in Brussels on 21 March 2024.

The Council also adopted without discussion the items on the list of non-legislative A items.

Meeting information

* Meeting n°4004

* Brussels

* 19 February 2024

* 09:30

Preparatory documents

* List of A items, non-legislative activities[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-6641-2024-INIT/en/pdf]

* Provisional agenda[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-6519-2024-INIT/en/pdf]

* Background brief[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/70300/background-note-fac-19-february-2024-final_en.pdf]

Outcome documents

* List of participants[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/70312/20240219-fac-presslist.pdf]

Press releases

* Belarus: Council conclusions confirm EU’s unwavering support for democracy and human rights[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/belarus-council-conclusions-confirm-eu-s-unwavering-support-for-democracy-and-human-rights/] – 19 February 2024, 14:50

* Humanitarian action: EU introduces further exception to sanctions[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/humanitarian-action-eu-introduces-further-exception-to-sanctions/] – 19 February 2024, 12:55

* Security and freedom of navigation in the Red Sea: Council launches EUNAVFOR ASPIDES[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/security-and-freedom-of-navigation-in-the-red-sea-council-launches-new-eu-defensive-operation/] – 19 February 2024, 12:50

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/main-results-of-the-eu-foreign-affairs-council-19-february-2024/428813/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 16 February 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-16-february-2024/428739/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 09:45 pm

CLIMATE SUBSIDIES

* EU Commission opens first in-depth investigation under the Foreign Subsidies Regulation

DECARBONISATION

* EU Commission approves €4 billion German State aid scheme partially funded under Recovery and Resilience Facility to help industries decarbonise production processes

* Habeck: „Wegweisender Beschluss für energieintensive Industrie“Grünes Licht aus Brüssel für Klimaschutzverträge

NET-ZERO

* Habeck: “Net Zero Industrial Act macht europäische Wirtschaft noch stärker und löst neue Investitionen aus“

IPCC

* Reminder: Additional call for suggestions for thematic or methodological issues related to biodiversity and climate change that would benefit from collaboration between IPCC and IPBES

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING DECISION on fluorinated greenhouse gases

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* ST 6269 2024 INIT – Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on establishing a framework of measures for strengthening Europe’s net-zero technology products manufacturing ecosystem (Net Zero Industry Act) – Letter to the Chair of the ITRE Committee of the European Parliament

* CM 1725 2024 INIT – Working Party on Aviation (AM and PM)

* CM 1731 2024 INIT – Informal videoconference of the members of the Working Party on Land Transport (A.M. only)

* CM 1784 2024 INIT – IMO / ISWG-GHG 16 MEPC 81- EU coordination meeting

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of these content tables that indicate the current topics we are covering.

To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our annual target group full-text services on the Insight EU Store page:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.10 noptimize/noptimizehttps://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566579964[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566579964] https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566579964[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566579964] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.10

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest[https://ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-16-february-2024/428739/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 16 February 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-16-february-2024/428741/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 09:36 pm

HYDROGEN

* Opening speech by EU Commissioner Simson at the International Hydrogen Colloquium ‘Creating a European & Worldwide Market’

* PIK: Elektrifizierung oder Wasserstoff? Beide haben unterschiedliche Rollen in der europäischen Energiewende

* Latest hydrogen industries’ headlines

* Babcock & Wilcox, Utility Gain $16M for Blue Hydrogen at Wyo. Plant

* Can Hydrogen Cars Compete With EVs?

* EverWind’s Leading Canadian Green Hydrogen and Ammonia Project Will Generate Substantial Economic & Structural Benefits, Major Study Finds

* EU approves 4.6 bn eur in German state funds for hydrogen projects

IEA

* Innovation in all its forms in spotlight at first Energy Innovation Forum at IEA Ministerial

UNECE

* Executive Secretary’s visit to EU Commission underscores mutual benefits of cooperation, with a strong focus on normative work

NUCLEAR ENERGY

* 2023 ANNUAL RESULTS Substantially higher nuclear power output in France Good overall operational performance New commercial policy Net financial debt reduced Trajectory 1.5°C validated by Moody’s

* Generische Sicherheitsaspekte bei Laufzeitverlängerungen französischer Reaktoren der 1300 MW-Baureihe über 40 Jahre hinaus

* Update 211 – IAEA Director General Statement on Situation in Ukraine

LNG

* CEER report points to critical role of LNG in EU security of supply and market competition

ENERGY REGULATION

* The Energy Community Secretariat commends ANRE’s approval of the first Electricity Market Study developed with EU4Energy support

HEAT PUMPS

* EHPA manifesto: priorities for EU policy 2024-2029 – European Heat Pump Association

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION OPINION pursuant to Article 3a of Regulation (EC) No 715/2009 – Spain – Certification of ENAGÁS TRANSPORTE S.A.U. as gas storage system operator for UGS Serrablo, UGS Gaviota and UGS Yela

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 1569 2024 INIT – Working Party on Atomic Questions

* CM 1565 2024 INIT – Working Party on Energy

* ST 6648 2024 INIT – Council Implementing Decision authorising Sweden to apply a reduced rate of taxation to electricity directly provided to vessels at berth in a port – Adoption

* ST 6647 2024 INIT Council Implementing Decision authorising Poland to apply reduced rates of excise duty to heavy fuel oil, natural gas, coal, and coke, used as heating fuels – Adoption

EU PARLIAMENT REGISTER

* Draft agenda – Thursday, 22 February 2024 – PE759.069v01-00 – Committee on Industry, Research and Energy

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of these content tables that indicate the current topics we are covering.

To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our annual target group full-text services on the Insight EU Store page:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.10 noptimize/noptimizehttps://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566727506[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566727506] https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566727506[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566727506] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.10

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest[https://ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-16-february-2024/428741/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

New legislative project to be launched to combat instrumentalised migration[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/new-legislative-project-to-be-launched-to-combat-instrumentalised-migration/428774/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 09:16 pm

Helsinki, 19 February 2024

The Ministry of the Interior will set up a legislative project to combat instrumentalised migration and to bolster border security. The term of the project is from 19 February to 31 March 2024. The aim is for a government proposal to be submitted to Parliament in March 2024.

The project will prepare legislative amendments that will help strengthen border security and effectively combat any attempts to put pressure on Finland in the form of instrumentalised migration. Legislation will be amended to protect Finland against threats to its national security.

Finland must be prepared for the possibility that Russia will exert prolonged pressure on Finland and that we will see more serious and larger-scale instrumentalised migration.

The amended legislation would be used as a last resort in preparing for the most serious situations. Otherwise, we will work within the framework of legislation in force. This will ensure that the authorities are able to address the most serious incidents of instrumentalised migration.

The preparation will examine the possibility of enacting provisions on the matter using the procedure for constitutional legislation.

The project working group is chaired by Sanna Palo, Chief of Legal Division from the Border Guard Department of the Ministry of the Interior.

Tensions in the security environment in Europe and Finland’s neighbouring regions are reflected in the security of Finland’s eastern border. Since autumn 2023, Finland has been faced with a situation of instrumentalisation of migrants. This is one of Russia’s means of attempting to influence Finland’s national security and internal order.

So far, the Government has responded to these attempts using the measures laid down in section 16 of the Border Guard Act. On 8 February, the Government decided that the border crossing points on the eastern border remain closed and the submission of applications for international protection continue to be centralised at other locations than the crossing points on the eastern border until 14 April 2024.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/1410869/new-legislative-project-to-be-launched-to-combat-instrumentalised-migration]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/new-legislative-project-to-be-launched-to-combat-instrumentalised-migration/428774/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Alexei Navalny’s death: Statement by EU HR Borrell on behalf of the EU[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/alexei-navalnys-death-statement-by-eu-hr-borrell-on-behalf-of-the-eu/428775/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 08:58 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

The European Union is outraged by the death of the Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny, for which the ultimate responsibility lies with President Putin and the Russian authorities. Today at the Foreign Affairs Council we expressed our deepest condolences to his wife Yulia Navalnaya, their children, family, friends and all those who worked with him for the benefit of their country.

Russia must allow an independent and transparent international investigation into circumstances of his sudden death. The EU will spare no efforts to hold Russia’s political leadership and authorities to account, in close coordination with our partners; and impose further costs for their actions, including through sanctions.

Around the world people have gathered to pay tribute to the memory of Alexei Navalny. In Russia, the authorities tried to prevent the same in a number of places and several hundred people have been detained. They must be immediately released.

Mr Navalny had bravely returned to Russia after an assassination attempt with the nerve agent “Novichok” banned under the Chemical Weapons Convention, to which the Russian Federation is a State Party. He was serving several politically motivated sentences in a strict penal colony in Siberia where he was moved to isolate him from the rest of the world. His family’s access to him was restricted. His lawyers are being harassed and three of them have been in pre-trial custody since October 2023.

The European Union has repeatedly condemned in the strongest possible terms his poisoning and all politically motivated rulings against him for his legitimate political and anti-corruption activities, calling for his immediate and unconditional release. It has repeatedly called on Russia to ensure his safety and health, including by approaching authorities in Moscow to no avail.

Throughout his life, Mr Navalny demonstrated incredible courage, dedication to his country and his fellow citizens and determination, with his anti-corruption work across Russia, a message that attracted many across the country. This is why Putin and his regime were afraid of him, also in the context of Russia’s ongoing illegal war of aggression against Ukraine and the Russian Presidential elections in March.

Mr Navalny’s unexpected and shocking death is yet another sign of the accelerating and systematic repression in Russia. The European Union repeats its call on Russia to immediately and unconditionally release all other political prisoners, including Yuri Dmitriev, Vladimir Kara-Murza, Ilya Yashin, Alexei Gorinov, Lilia Chanysheva, Ksenia Fadeeva, Alexandra Skochilenko and Ivan Safronov.

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/russia-statement-by-the-high-representative-on-behalf-of-the-european-union-on-the-death-of-alexei-navalny/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/alexei-navalnys-death-statement-by-eu-hr-borrell-on-behalf-of-the-eu/428775/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Norway assists in scheme for crucial financial transfers from Israel to Palestine[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/norway-assists-in-scheme-for-crucial-financial-transfers-from-israel-to-palestine/428772/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 05:51 pm

Oslo, 19 February 2024

Norway is facilitating an arrangement that will enable the Palestinian Authority to receive clearance revenues that Israel collects on its behalf. In the wake of the terrorist attack by Hamas on 7 October, the situation between the parties has been deadlocked. The temporary scheme will play a crucial role in preventing the Palestinian Authority from collapsing financially.

“With our assistance to this solution, the Palestinian Authority will be able to pay salaries, thus making it possible to continue to provide essential services to the Palestinian population, keep schools open, and ensure that health workers are paid. This is critical to promoting stability in the region and for the Palestinian Authority to have legitimacy among its people,” said Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre.

The Palestinian Authority’s economic situation has become even more precarious since 7 October. There have been reports of an imminent financial collapse. One of the reasons is that Israel has withheld some of the clearance revenues it collects on behalf of the Palestinian Authority, due to the war in Gaza. The Palestinian Authority has refused to accept all transfers unless Israel changes its decision. The impasse has gone on for several months.

“Norway has worked closely with Israeli and Palestinian officials for many weeks to help resolve this issue. Together we have agreed on a temporary solution in which Norway will serve as an intermediary for holding the portions of the clearance revenues taxe that Israel has withheld since 7 October. The Palestinian Authority is then willing to accept the other funds. The Palestinian Authority has welcomed this arrangement and appreciates the effort to find a temporary solution in this extraordinary situation. I am pleased Norway can assist the parties in this way,” said Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide.

The technical aspects of administering the funds have been agreed between Norway and Israel and were devised with the Palestinian Authority’s full understanding and support. The portion of the revenues that Israel will transfer to Norway will remain in a Norwegian account until the parties agree whether Norway may release the funds to the Palestinian Authority.

As chair of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee (AHLC), the international donor group for Palestine, Norway is working with the Palestinian Authority as well as other donors and partners in the effort to reform and strengthen Palestinian institutions.

“Ensuring that the Palestinian Authority does not collapse and can provide essential services to the population is vital to safeguarding the very existence of the Authority, promoting a political process and realising a future two-state solution,” said Mr Eide.

Facts about Palestinian customs and tax revenues

* Under the Paris Protocol (a 1994 agreement between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization), Israel collects Palestinian clearance revenues on behalf of the Palestinian Authority and transfers the funds to the Authority.

* These revenues account for about 65 % of the Palestinian Authority’s income.

* After 7 October, the Israeli Security Cabinet decided that part of the Palestinian clearance revenues would not be transferred to the Palestinian Authority in order to prevent payments to Hamas.

* The Palestinian Authority has responded by opposing all transfers from Israel unless Israel changes its decision. The situation has therefore been deadlocked in recent months.

Source – Norwegian Government[https://www.regjeringen.no/en/aktuelt/norway-assists-in-scheme-for-crucial-financial-transfers-from-israel-to-palestine/id3025994/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/norway-assists-in-scheme-for-crucial-financial-transfers-from-israel-to-palestine/428772/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission endorses Czechia’s €702m RRF payment[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-endorses-czechias-e702m-rrf-payment/428769/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 05:30 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

Today, the Commission has endorsed a positive preliminary assessment of Czechia’s second payment request for €702 million under the Recovery and Resilience Facility[https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/recovery-coronavirus/recovery-and-resilience-facility_en], the centrepiece of NextGenerationEU.[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/eu-budget/eu-borrower-investor-relations/nextgenerationeu_en]

Following its assessment of the payment request, submitted on 6 December 2023, the Commission has preliminarily concluded that Czechia has satisfactorily completed the 28 milestones and targets set out in the Council Implementing Decision[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-13383-2023-REV-1/en/pdf] for the second and third instalments.

This payment request covers important steps in the delivery of four reforms and 24 investments that will drive positive change for both citizens and businesses in Czechia impacting key areas such as clean mobility, healthcare, forestry, water management, research and digitalisation.

Flagship measures in this payment request include:

* High-capacity internet networks built more quickly and at lower cost: Czechia adopted a law enhancing coordination amongst internet and utility companies, through the creation of a database. Internet companies will be able to install high-capacity networks by identifying sites of ongoing or planned construction by utility companies. This will make the building of internet networks in Czechia cheaper, faster, and more efficient. This investment will help Czechia address its internet connectivity issues, identified in the 2023 Digital Decade Country Report[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/2023-report-state-digital-decade], showing that only 53% of households are connected to Fixed Very High-Capacity Networks, compared to an EU average of 73%.

* Forest restoration and water-retention investments: In recent years, Czechia has been hit by two environmental crises. Firstly, as a result of bark-beetles, more trees were felled in 2020 than from 1990 to 2016 combined. Secondly, Czechia suffered extensive droughts that led to a devastating forest fire in the Bohemian Switzerland National Park in 2022. These fires spread towards the Pravčická brána rock formation, one of the most striking sandstone monuments in Europe. To help prevent such crises in the future, the Czech plan will fund the reforestation of more than 12,000 hectares and the construction of 40 forest reservoirs for water retention. These measures support the EU’s Adaptation strategy[https://climate.ec.europa.eu/eu-action/adaptation-climate-change/eu-adaptation-strategy_en] and Forest strategy[https://environment.ec.europa.eu/strategy/forest-strategy_en].

Next steps

The Commission has now sent its preliminary assessment of Czechia’s fulfilment of the milestones and targets required for this payment to the Economic and Financial Committee[https://economic-financial-committee.europa.eu/index_en] (EFC), which has four weeks to deliver its opinion. The payment to Czechia can take place following the EFC’s opinion, and the adoption of a payment decision by the Commission.

Background

The Czech recovery and resilience plan[https://commission.europa.eu/business-economy-euro/economic-recovery/recovery-and-resilience-facility/country-pages/czechias-recovery-and-resilience-plan_en] includes a wide range of investment and reform measures. The plan will be financed by €8.4 billion in grants and €818 million in loans. The payment request preliminarily endorsed today follows Czechia’s first payment request, which was endorsed by the Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_643] on 8 February 2023 and paid out to Czechia[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/mex_23_1821] on 22 March 2023.

This payment request will bring the total disbursement to Czechia under the Recovery and Resilience Facility to €2.7 billion (including the €915 million in pre-financing received in September 2021, €928 million in grants received on 22 March 2023 for the first payment request and a €147 million pre-payment under REPowerEU, received on 21 December 2023). These figures correspond to 29% of the total funds in the Czech plan, with 19% of all the milestones and targets fulfilled.More information on the Czech plan, including a map of projects financed by the Recovery and Resilience Facility in Czechia are available here[https://commission.europa.eu/business-economy-euro/economic-recovery/recovery-and-resilience-facility/country-pages/czechias-recovery-and-resilience-plan_en].

For more information

Commission’s preliminary assessment of Czechia’s second payment request[https://commission.europa.eu/document/175c7381-0bb1-4c82-965f-adc83373ce9b_en]

Questions and Answers on Czechia’s disbursement request under NextGenerationEU[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_23_647]

Commission’s preliminary assessment of Czechia’s Recovery and Resilience plan[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_4642]

Plan overview, full plan and all other related documents[https://commission.europa.eu/business-economy-euro/economic-recovery/recovery-and-resilience-facility/country-pages/czechias-recovery-and-resilience-plan_en]

Recovery and Resilience Facility[https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/recovery-coronavirus/recovery-and-resilience-facility_en]

Recovery and Resilience Facility project map[https://commission.europa.eu/business-economy-euro/economic-recovery/recovery-and-resilience-facility_en#map]

Recovery and Resilience Scoreboard[https://ec.europa.eu/economy_finance/recovery-and-resilience-scoreboard/index.html]

Recovery and Resilience Facility Regulation[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.L_.2021.057.01.0017.01.ENG&toc=OJ%3AL%3A2021%3A057%3ATOC]

EU as a borrower[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/eu-borrower-investor-relations_en]

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_24_891]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-endorses-czechias-e702m-rrf-payment/428769/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission opens formal proceedings against TikTok under the DSA[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-opens-formal-proceedings-against-tiktok-under-the-dsa/428759/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 03:33 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

The European Commission has opened formal proceedings to assess whether TikTok may have breached the Digital Services Act (DSA)[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/safer-online] in areas linked to the protection of minors, advertising transparency, data access for researchers, as well as the risk management of addictive design and harmful content.

On the basis of the preliminary investigation conducted so far, including on the basis of an analysis of the risk assessment report sent by TikTok in September 2023, as well as TikTok’s replies to the Commission’s formal Requests for Information (on illegal content[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/commission-sends-request-information-tiktok-under-digital-services-act], protection of minors[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/commission-sends-requests-information-tiktok-and-youtube-under-digital-services-act], and data access[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/commission-sends-requests-information-17-very-large-online-platforms-and-search-engines-under]), the Commission has decided to open formal proceedings against TikTok under the Digital Services Act.

Margrethe Vestager, Executive Vice-President for a Europe Fit for the Digital Age, said:

“The safety and well-being of online users in Europe is crucial. TikTok needs to take a close look at the services they offer and carefully consider the risks that they pose to their users – young as well as old. The Commission will now carry out an in-depth investigation without prejudice to the outcome.”

Thierry Breton, Commissioner for Internal Market, said:

“The protection of minors is a top enforcement priority for the DSA. As a platform that reaches millions of children and teenagers, TikTok must fully comply with the DSA and has a particular role to play in the protection of minors online. We are launching this formal infringement proceeding today to ensure that proportionate action is taken to protect the physical and emotional well-being of young Europeans. We must spare no effort to protect our children.”

The opening of formal proceedings empowers the Commission to take further enforcement steps, such as interim measures, and non-compliance decisions. The Commission is also empowered to accept any commitment made by TikTok to remedy on the matters subject to the proceeding.

TikTok was designated as a Very Large Online Platform[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/dsa-vlops] (VLOP) on 25 April 2023 under the EU’s Digital Services Act, following its declaration of having 135.9 million monthly active users in the EU. As a VLOP, four months from its designation, TikTok had to start complying with a series of obligations set out in the DSA.

More information is available in our press release[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_24_926].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_24_925]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-opens-formal-proceedings-against-tiktok-under-the-dsa/428759/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU and Rwanda sign a MoU on sustainable raw materials value chains[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-and-rwanda-sign-a-mou-on-sustainable-raw-materials-value-chains/428757/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 03:29 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

Today, the European Union and Rwanda have entered an important agreement to nurture sustainable and resilient value chains for critical raw materials. Commissioner for International Partnerships, Jutta Urpilainen, and Rwanda’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vincent Biruta, signed a Memorandum of Understanding to strengthen Rwanda’s role in fostering sustainable development and resilient value chains across Africa.

This Memorandum of Understanding establishes close cooperation between the EU and Rwanda in the following five areas: Integration of sustainable raw materials value chains and support for economic diversification; cooperation to achieve sustainable and responsible production and valorisation of critical and strategic raw materials; mobilisation of funding for deployment of infrastructure required for the development of raw material value chains; Research and innovation and sharing of knowledge and technologies related to sustainable exploration, extraction, refining, processing, valorisation and recycling of critical and strategic raw materials; and the building of capacity to enforce relevant rules, increasing training and skills related to the critical and strategic raw materials value chain.

The signature of the Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and Rwanda signals both parties’ intention to strengthen their partnership for closer integration of raw materials value chains. This cooperation model will bring the possibility for the partner country to diversify their economy and will be a driver for structural transformation.

A press release with more information is available online[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_24_822].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_24_925]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-and-rwanda-sign-a-mou-on-sustainable-raw-materials-value-chains/428757/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Belarus: EU Council conclusions confirm EU’s unwavering support for democracy and human rights[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/belarus-eu-council-conclusions-confirm-eus-unwavering-support-for-democracy-and-human-rights/428755/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 03:23 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

The Council today approved conclusions reaffirming its unwavering support for the Belarusian people’s quest for a free, democratic, sovereign and independent Belarus as part of a peaceful and prosperous Europe.

Belarus remains high on the EU agenda. We denounce the Lukashenka regime’s continued senseless violation of human rights and unprecedented level of repression ahead of the upcoming elections. Those responsible will be held to account. We stand in solidarity with the Belarusian people and remain determined to mobilise all tools to support their quest for peace and democracy.

Josep Borrell, High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy

In its conclusions, the Council expresses its continued and deep concern about the deteriorating human rights situation in Belarus. It strongly condemns the continuing persecution and intimidation campaigns against all segments of Belarusian society, the unprecedented level of repression, and restrictions on political participation, which undermine the potential for fairness and legitimacy of the parliamentary and local elections scheduled to take place on 25 February 2024.

The Council expresses its deep concern about the Lukashenka regime’s actions affecting the national identity of Belarus and reaffirms its commitment to supporting and promoting the Belarusian language and culture

Furthermore, the Council strongly condemns the continued support provided by the Belarusian regime to Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine and calls on Belarus to refrain from such actions and to abide by its international obligations. It also condemns the regime’s hybrid attacks at the EU’s external borders, including the instrumentalisation of migrants.

The EU has imposed targeted sanctions against the Lukashenka regime, and stands ready to take further restrictive and targeted measures as long as the Belarusian authorities continue their actions.

The conclusions also underline the EU’s strong support for Belarusian civil society, welcoming the establishment of the EU Consultative Group with Belarusian democratic forces and civil society. Furthermore they recall the EU’s commitment to provide €3 billion to a future democratic Belarus through a comprehensive plan of economic support which aims to build resilience and bring forward democratic reforms, to create new jobs and improve people’s living standards. A future democratic Belarus has a place in the European family.

* Text of the conclusions[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/70347/st06737-en24.pdf]

* Belarus: High Representative Josep Borrell launches a new Consultative Group with democratic forces and civil society, 29 June 2023[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/belarus-high-representativevice-president-josep-borrell-launches-new-consultative-group-democratic_en]

* Belarus: EU adopts conclusions (press release, 12 October 2020)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2020/10/12/belarus-eu-adopts-conclusions/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/fac/2024/02/19/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/belarus-council-conclusions-confirm-eu-s-unwavering-support-for-democracy-and-human-rights/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Belarus%3a+Council+conclusions+confirm+EU%u2019s+unwavering+support+for+democracy+and+human+rights]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/belarus-eu-council-conclusions-confirm-eus-unwavering-support-for-democracy-and-human-rights/428755/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Security in the Red Sea: EU Council launches EUNAVFOR ASPIDES[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security-in-the-red-sea-eu-council-launches-eunavfor-aspides/428751/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 02:12 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

The Council launched today EUNAVFOR ASPIDES. The objective of this defensive maritime security operation is to restore and safeguard freedom of navigation in the Red Sea and the Gulf.

With the launch of EUNAVFOR ASPIDES, the European Union is responding swiftly to the necessity to restore maritime security and freedom of navigation in a highly strategic maritime corridor. The operation will play a key role in safeguarding commercial and security interests, for the sake of the EU and the wider international community.

Josep Borrell, High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy

Operation ASPIDES will ensure an EU naval presence in the area where numerous Houthi attacks have targeted international commercial vessels since October 2023. In close cooperation with like-minded international partners, ASPIDES will contribute to safeguard maritime security and ensure freedom of navigation, especially for merchant and commercial vessels. Within its defensive mandate, the operation will provide maritime situational awareness, accompany vessels, and protect them against possible multi-domain attacks at sea.

The operation will be active along the main sea lines of communication in the Baab al-Mandab Strait and the Strait of Hormuz, as well as international waters in the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Arabian Sea, the Gulf of Oman, and the Persian Gulf.

The Operation Commander will be Commodore Vasilios Griparis, and the Force Commander will be Rear Admiral Stefano Costantino. The Operation headquarters will be based in Larissa, Greece.

Operation ASPIDES will coordinate closely with the EUNAVFOR ATALANTA to contribute to maritime security in the West Indian Ocean and in the Red Sea, as well as, with like-minded partners contributing to maritime security in its area of operation.

Background

Since October 2023, numerous Houthi attacks have targeted vessels in the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman. Such attacks jeopardise the life of civilians on merchant and commercial vessels, and constitute a breach of the freedom of the high seas and of the right of transit passage in straits used for international navigation enshrined in United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea.

On 10 January 2024, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2722 (2024), condemning in the strongest terms the Houthi attacks on merchant and commercial vessels; underscoring the importance of the exercise of navigational rights and freedoms of vessels of all states in the Red Sea, including for merchant and commercial vessels transiting the Baab al Mandab Strait. In accordance with international law, the UNSC demanded the immediate cessation of Houthis’ attacks, affirming that the exercise of navigational rights and freedoms by merchant and commercial vessels, in accordance with international law, must be respected, and taking note of the right of member states, in accordance with international law, to defend their vessels from attacks, including those that undermine navigational rights and freedoms.

On 29 January 2024, the Council approved a Crisis Management Concept for a possible EU maritime security operation to safeguard freedom of navigation in relation to the Red Sea crisis, with an initial duration of one year from when it is launched. The operation was formally established on 8 February 2024.

* European Peace Facility (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/european-peace-facility/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/fac/2024/02/19/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/security-and-freedom-of-navigation-in-the-red-sea-council-launches-new-eu-defensive-operation/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Security+and+freedom+of+navigation+in+the+Red+Sea%3a+Council+launches+EUNAVFOR+ASPIDES]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security-in-the-red-sea-eu-council-launches-eunavfor-aspides/428751/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Humanitarian action: EU introduces further exception to sanctions[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/humanitarian-action-eu-introduces-further-exception-to-sanctions/428749/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 02:07 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

The Council today decided to modify the EU framework on restrictive measures to combat terrorism, by introducing a humanitarian exception to the asset freeze measures for an initial duration of 12 months.

As a result of the decision, certain categories of humanitarian actors, including those outlined in the UN Security Council resolution 2664 (2022), as well as organisations and agencies certified as humanitarian partners of the EU or its member states and member states’ specialised agencies can engage in transactions with listed individuals and entities without any prior authorisation, if the purpose is to deliver humanitarian assistance or to support other activities that support basic human needs of people in need.

Today’s decision increases consistency and coherence across EU restrictive measures regimes and with those adopted at UN level or by other international partners in order to safeguard principled humanitarian action by impartial humanitarian actors.

This decision sends a strong signal to both humanitarian and economic operators, as well as those in need of humanitarian aid: EU sanctions do not stand in the way of delivering humanitarian assistance. It demonstrates the EU’s steadfast determination to avoid unintended negative consequences of sanctions on humanitarian action, and the importance given to the full adherence to international law in the EU’s sanctions policy.

Background

On 9 December 2022, the UN Security Council adopted resolution 2664 (2022), which provides a “humanitarian carve-out” – a standing humanitarian exemption – to the asset freeze measures imposed by United Nations sanctions regimes.

On 14 February 2023, the Council decided to introduce the humanitarian exemption pursuant to resolution 2664 in the UN sanctions regimes at EU level, and on 31 March 2023, the Council introduced the humanitarian exemption in the so-called UN/EU mixed sanctions regimes in which EU measures complement sanctions imposed by the UN Security Council. On 27 November 2023, the Council further introduced the humanitarian exemption into certain Union restrictive measures regimes.

* Humanitarian action: EU introduces further exceptions to sanctions to facilitate the delivery of assistance (press release, 27 November 2023)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/11/27/humanitarian-action-eu-introduces-further-exceptions-to-sanctions-to-facilitate-the-delivery-of-assistance/]

* Humanitarian action: EU introduces exemptions to sanctions to facilitate the delivery of assistance (press release, 31 March 2023)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/03/31/humanitarian-action-eu-introduces-exemptions-to-sanctions-to-facilitate-the-delivery-of-assistance/]

* EU terrorist list (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/fight-against-terrorism/terrorist-list/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/fac/2024/02/19/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2024/02/19/humanitarian-action-eu-introduces-further-exception-to-sanctions/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Humanitarian+action%3a+EU+introduces+further+exception+to+sanctions]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/humanitarian-action-eu-introduces-further-exception-to-sanctions/428749/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Foreign Affairs Council: Press remarks by EU HRVP Borrell upon arrival[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/foreign-affairs-council-press-remarks-by-eu-hrvp-borrell-upon-arrival-2/428746/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 19, 2024 02:02 pm

Brussels, 19 February 2024

Check against delivery!

Good morning,

Did you have a good weekend? Well, [I did not].

The sad news of the passing of [Alexei] Navalny[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/russia-joint-statement-president-von-der-leyen-and-high-representativevice-president-borrell-death_en] came to Munich where the Security Conference was taking place.

Today, we will have here with us his wife, Yulia Navalnaya, who will send a message, a political message, about how to support the political opposition inside Russia against Putin’s regime.

You see, during this weekend, many people have been demonstrating in the streets of Russia, in Sankt Petersburg and Moscow, in spite of the repression. Many of them have been detained and sentenced. We have to send a message of support to the Russian opposition and at the same time, we will continue watching how the war is [developing]. It is about two years since Putin launched this war against Ukraine, and he does not look ready to stop it, on the contrary.

So, in both fronts, in the political one and the military one, we have to continue our support to Ukraine and to the Russian people who want to be living in freedom. And to pay an homage to Mr Navalny and in order to honour his memory, I will propose the Ministers to rename our [Global] Human Rights Sanctions Regime with his name and call it the “Navalny Human Rights Sanctions Regime”, in order for his name to be forever written on the work of the European Union in defending human rights.

Talking about human rights, we will discuss about the situation in the Middle East, [about which] I issued a statement[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/israelpalestine-statement-high-representative-planned-israeli-military-operation-rafah_en?channel=eeas_press_alerts&date=2024-02-16&newsid=0&langid=en&source=mail] this weekend. Unhappily, it was not a unanimous statement. I had to do it on my own, representing the great majority of the Member States – but not all of them – asking Israel not to launch a military offensive in Rafah.

We will also have the United Nations Coordinator for Humanitarian Assistance [and Reconstruction for Gaza], Sigrid [Kaag], who will debrief the Ministers about her work. In the meantime, well, nothing new but only the same bad news: 1.7 million people are being pushed against the Egyptian border.

For the time being, the military operation has not reached a high, but everybody is afraid that this will happen in the next days. The only solution is to free the hostages, and a permanent ceasefire that could allow to look for a political solution.

These will be the two main issues today in our agenda. Sigrid [Kaag] and Yulia Navalnaya will be present both physically in the Council.

Q&A

Q. Who could be sanctioned because of Navalny?

Yes, Member States will propose sanctions for sure. Against those responsible, well the [ultimately] responsible is Putin himself, but we can go down to the institutional structure of the penitentiary system in Russia. But do not forget who is the real responsible for Navalny’s death.

Q. Mr Borrell, do you consider recognising Palestine as a State?

Well, you should know that the European Union does not recognise [states]. It is not in its capacity to recognise or not recognise [states], it is Member States who have this capacity. Some have already done [it], others may do it, but it is about Member States. It is not a European Union decision.

On the other hand, you know that two Member States have requested to study and to assess if Israel is fulfilling or not its commitments [from] the point of view of human rights respect according with the Association agreement. This is foreign policy. This is something that belongs to the foreign policy and certainly, we have to be involved in that. The Council will have to decide on the basis of an assessment of this situation.

Q. Mr Borrell, you said you have to stop talking and take actions. What kind of actions can be taken in this crucial moment where nobody can stop Israel from starting this operation [in Rafah]?

The only solution is to free the hostages. You cannot expect the military operation to stop if the hostages continue being detained. So, an agreement has to be reached. I encourage all parties, and in particular, I want to thank the great work done by Qatar in order to look for a solution that has to start with an agreement to free the hostages, and immediately after – or at the same time – a cessation of hostilities. This is the political work that we can do: to put political pressure and to insist on the need to free the hostages. I do not see any other step that can be taken without it. But at the same time, we have to continue putting pressure on Israel to make them understand that there are so many people in the streets of Rafah that if they launch a military attack, it will be impossible to avoid civilian casualties – which are already unbearable and will still increase. This, certainly, will need to be against the respect of humanitarian law. That is our message, our strong message. I said that many times. On Friday, I issued a statement[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/israelpalestine-statement-high-representative-planned-israeli-military-operation-rafah_en?channel=eeas_press_alerts&date=2024-02-16&newsid=0&langid=en&source=mail]. I wanted the 27 [Member States] to be behind it and I was almost there, but not everybody was there.

Q. What is your main message to Georgia before the EU-Georgia [Association] Council?[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/international-ministerial-meetings/2024/02/20/#:~:text=The%208th%20meeting%20of%20the,will%20lead%20the%20Georgian%20delegation.] You will meet tomorrow our new Prime Minister.

Yes, I will meet the new Prime Minister [of Georgia, Irakli Kobakhidze].

Q. Your main message?

To encourage Georgia to continue working on the European path. They are doing well, and there is a strong support from the Georgian society. This is a good occasion for Georgia.

Q. The invasion of Rafah is clearly coming by [the time of] Ramadan. Any European plan to avoid a new huge crisis not only in Palestine but even in Egypt?

We have been warning about the situation, not only in Gaza but in the West Bank. Yesterday in Munich, everybody was talking about the war in Gaza. Yes, we have to talk about the war in Gaza but do not forget what is happening in the West Bank, where the violence by the settlers continue. I am proposing Member States to take action, to sanction the violent settlers which are doing what we can call “terrorist actions” against Palestinian people in the West Bank. We are still not there. I still do not have the agreement of all Member States, but I will continue pushing because if we want to keep our credibility, we have to denounce what is happening in the West Bank. The West Bank is boiling, and if they do not let people go to the mosques during the festivities, during the Ramadan, the situation could become still worse. So, let’s see what the Ministers have to say about it.

Q. Se ha revisado ya la iniciativa de España e Irlanda de revisar el Acuerdo de Asociación con Israel?

Pero cómo vamos a haberla estudiado si ha llegado hace dos días, por favor.

Q. ¿Algún calendario de cuándo pasará?

Bueno, primero tenemos que ver el procedimiento a seguir. Está claro que el respecto a los derechos humanos en un acuerdo de asociación es algo que es parte de la política exterior. Y, por lo tanto, le va a corresponder al Alto Representante dirigir el análisis de en qué medida Israel está cumpliendo con sus obligaciones de acuerdo con el Acuerdo de Asociación. Esto no es una cosa que se pueda hacer de la noche a la mañana, pero dos Estados miembros lo han pedido y habrá que estudiar su petición, y el Consejo tendrá que estudiarlo políticamente.

Q. Pero, ¿cree que se podría llegar a una votación?

No lo sé. Claro, no lo sé. ¿Como voy a saberlo? Tendré que estudiarlo primero, ¿no?

Q. ¿Se puede sancionar más a la Rusia de Vladimir Putin después de lo que ha pasado con Navalny?

Siempre hay margen y siempre hay gente que merece ser sancionada. En el caso de Navalny estamos ante una situación distinta de las personas que han sido sancionada por su contribución al esfuerzo de guerra de Rusia.

Pero los ministros lo van a decidir. Lo importante es lanzar un mensaje de apoyo a la oposición política en Rusia. Mucha gente a ha sido detenida este fin de semana en Rusia al participar en demostraciones por la muerte de Navalny. Su viuda [Yulia Navalnaya] estará aquí también con nosotros hoy. Vamos a cambiar el nombre de nuestro régimen de sanciones en defensa de los derechos humanos. Lo vamos a llamar en su nombre, en su memoria. Vamos a ver de qué manera la Unión Europea puede apoyar a los ciudadanos rusos que quieren vivir en libertad.

Link to the video: https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-253155[https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-253155]

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/foreign-affairs-council-press-remarks-high-representative-josep-borrell-upon-arrival-15_en?channel=eeas_press_alerts&date=2024-02-19&newsid=0&langid=en&source=mail]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/foreign-affairs-council-press-remarks-by-eu-hrvp-borrell-upon-arrival-2/428746/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020240220ek2k00001


Bulgarian far-right visit Moscow at invitation of Putin’s party
Euractiv Network
1304 字
2024 年 2 月 21 日 07:57 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2024. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by Euractiv’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by Euractiv.

Today’s edition is powered by the European Round Table for Industry (ERT)

A message from ERT & European Movement International

Step into the DeLors-ean with ERT & EMI: This Thursday, join us and Enrico Letta, EVP Margrethe Vestager, ERT Chair-Jean-François van Boxmeer, Dr Ilham Kadri, Guy Verhofstadt, Stefano Grassi & other special guests for a series of discussions about renewing the dynamic of European economic integration.

Find out more →[https://eurac.tv/9WRa]

In today’s news from The Capitals:

SOFIA

Bulgarian far-right visit Moscow at invitation of Putin’s party. Bulgaria’s pro-Russian far-right Vazrazhdane (Revival) party sent a delegation to Moscow at the invitation of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s United Russia party, according to an announcement by the Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Foreign Ministry. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/bulgarian-far-right-visit-moscow-at-invitation-of-putins-party/].

BERLIN

Leading liberal breaks ranks with government, sides with opposition over Taurus missile delivery delay. Dissatisfied with Chancellor Olaf Scholz’s reluctance to deliver Taurus missiles to Ukraine, the EU lead candidate for the German liberals will side with the conservative opposition party in an upcoming motion, putting another strain on the coalition’s fragile bond. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/leading-liberal-breaks-ranks-with-government-sides-with-opposition-over-taurus-missile-delivery-delay/].

PARIS

French right opposes von der Leyen’s re-run for EU Commission. France’s conservative party Les Républicains (LR, EPP) will not support Ursula von der Leyen’s bid to get a second term as European Commission president, François Xavier-Bellamy, head of the LR list for the EU elections, told France Inter radio on Tuesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/elections/news/french-right-opposes-von-der-leyens-re-run-for-eu-commission/].

Beware – far right still wants out of the EU, Brexit negotiator Barnier warns. Leaving the EU remains the far right’s ultimate goal, even if they stay quiet about it ahead of election time, former Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier told Euractiv in an interview on Tuesday, warning that the far right has not learned the lessons of Brexit. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/uk-europe/interview/beware-far-right-still-wants-out-of-the-eu-brexit-negotiator-barnier-warns/].

NORDICS & BALTICS

STOCKHOLM

Sweden’s PM Kristersson to visit Hungary with NATO bid ratification expected next week. Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson will travel to Budapest on Friday to meet his Hungarian counterpart Viktor Orbán before Hungary’s parliament takes a long-delayed vote on Sweden’s bid for NATO membership next Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/defence-and-security/news/update-2-swedish-pm-to-visit-hungary-before-ratification-of-nato-bid/].

COPENHAGEN

State aid should be ‘stopped’, Danish industry minister warns. The current loosening of EU state aid rules should not be prolonged further, Danish Industry Minister Morten Bødskov warned on Tuesday while in Berlin to meet his German counterpart, Robert Habeck, a fierce proponent of relaxation of the EU framework. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/economy-jobs/news/state-aid-should-be-stopped-danish-industry-minister-said/].

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME

Salvini under pressure to show cancelled deal with Putin’s party after Navalny remarks. Liberal Action party (Renew Europe) leader Carlo Calenda slammed far-right Lega party leader Matteo Salvini on social media on Tuesday, demanding an account of the 2017 agreement with Putin’s United Russia party and evidence that the deal between both parties has been cancelled. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/salvini-under-pressure-to-show-cancelled-deal-with-putins-party-after-navalny-remarks/].

MADRID

Madrid braces as farmers extend protests. Madrid is bracing for traffic chaos on Wednesday as thousands of farmers are expected to protest against the latest government proposals, which they say are insufficient to maintain the economic viability of their farms and reduce the bureaucratic burden of Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) processing aid, among other demands. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/madrid-braces-as-farmers-extend-protests/].

Russian emigres in Spain call for protection after pilot defector shot dead. Russian emigres in Spain critical of the Kremlin called on the Spanish authorities on Tuesday (20 February) to better protect them, after a Russian pilot who had defected to Ukraine was found shot dead in a garage in a town on Spain’s Mediterranean coast. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/russian-emigres-in-spain-call-for-protection-after-pilot-defector-shot-dead/].

LISBON

EU not prepared to include country at war in EU, says former Commission chief Barroso. The European Union is not ready to accept the inclusion of a country at war, Former EU Commission President and former Portuguese Prime Minister José Manuel Durão Barroso warned on Tuesday, calling instead for an eventual understanding that would prevent the conflict in Ukraine from spreading. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/eu-not-prepared-to-include-country-at-war-in-eu-says-former-commission-chief-barroso/].

EASTERN EUROPE

WARSAW

Poland takes first step to withdraw Article 7 procedure. Polish Justice Minister Adam Bodnar presented EU ministers with an action plan to restore the country’s rule of law, which EU Commissioner Věra Jourová described as a first step for the Commission to withdraw the Article 7 procedure against Warsaw. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/poland-takes-first-step-to-withdraw-article-7-procedure/].

PRAGUE

Special EU fund for coal regions looks good but is costly, warns Czech study. Creating a new European fund to support coal regions – the Just Transition Fund – may look like a positive step for disadvantaged areas, but its administration is complex, costly and threatens its effective use, warns a new Czech study based on interviews with officials. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/special-eu-fund-for-coal-regions-looks-good-but-is-costly-warns-czech-study/].

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

BUCHAREST | CHISINAU

Romanian far-right party leader wants to destabilise Chişinău, warns Moldovan PM. AUR party leader George Simion is involved in “destabilising efforts in Moldova”, accused Moldovan Prime Minister Dorin Recean, which resulted in Moldovan authorities extending the party leader’s ban from entering the country. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/romanian-far-right-party-leader-wants-to-destabilise-chisinau-warns-moldovan-pm/].

ZAGREB

Croatia working to limit foreign labour, may result in higher imports, warns analyst. The Croatian Interior Ministry (MUP) is working on changes to the laws that should limit the import of labour into Croatia, a move that could result in a significantly larger import of labour ‘in the grey zone’ than now, independent labour market analyst Predrag Bejaković warned Euractiv. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/croatia-working-to-limit-foreign-labour-may-result-in-higher-imports-warns-analyst/]. Croatian president slams PM Plenkovic as ‘liar and faker’. Croatian President Zoran Milanović launched his strongest invective to date against conservative Prime Minister Andrej Plenković on Tuesday, calling him a “liar and a political faker who deceives Croatian citizens”. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/croatian-president-slams-pm-plenkovic-as-liar-and-faker/].

BELGRADE

Vučić reiterates refusal to sanction Russia: ‘A friend in need is a friend indeed’. Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić will continue to refrain from imposing sanctions on Russia despite pressure from the West, he told the TASS agency, adding that when it comes to relations between Serbian and Russian citizens, a friend in need is a friend indeed. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/vucic-reiterates-refusal-to-sanction-russia-a-friend-in-need-is-a-friend-indeed/].

AGENDA:

* EU: Commission President Ursula von der Leyen chairs College of Commissioners meeting;

* Commission Vice President Dubravka Suica delivers keynote speech for World Economic Forum workshop “Longevity Economy: Principles and Actions to Define the Next Era in an Aging World”; Delivers keynote speech at EPP Group Conference panel “A social market economy that cares”;

* Vice President Maroš Šefčovič delivers keynote speech at Solar Impulse Foundation event on “Europe 3.0 – Modernise to Thrive”;

* Vice President Valdis Dombrovskis participates in fireside chat organised by DigitalEurope on “Trans-Atlantic digital cooperation and challenges for the period of 2024 – 2029”;

* Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders hosts Norwegian State Secretary in charge of consumer policy Trine Fagervik;

* Jobs and Social Rights Commissioner Nicolas Schmit gives keynote speech at Official opening of Skills Summit 2024; Meets with Deputy Minister of Employment and Social Development of Canada Paul Thompson;

* Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides receives US Commissioner of Food and Drugs Robert M. Califf;

* Neighbourhood and Enlargement Commissioner hosts Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration of Moldova Cristina Gherasimov, Ambassador of Israel Haim Regev,Egyptian Ambassador to the EU Badr Abdelatty;

* Financial services, financial stability and Capital Markets Union Commissioner Mairead McGuinness participates in fireside chat at World Economic Forum workshop “Longevity Economy: Principles and Actions to Define the Next Era in an Aging World”;

* Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth Commissioner Iliana Ivanova delivers keynote speech at “Europe 2030: A Digital Powerhouse”;

* Parliament President Roberta Metsola meets Prime Minister of Georgia Irakli Kobakhidze;

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Daniel Eck, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson, Sofia Mandilara]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020240221ek2l00002


News; International
CNN International: Putin Hails Troops After Capture Of Avdiivka In Ukraine; Ukraine Urges More Intl. Support After Loss Of Avdiivka; Russians Look To Advance After Fall of Avdiivka. Aired 11a-12p ET
Rahel Solomon, Frederik Pleitgen, Katelyn Polantz, Josh Campbell, Kylie Atwood, Alice Stewart, Maria Cardona, Nic Robertson, Catherine Rampell, Pete Muntean
9070 字
2024 年 2 月 21 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2024 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2024 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[11:00:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning or good evening, depending on where you're watching. I'm Rahel Solomon here in New York. And as you can see, we're trying something a little new this hour. Ahead, we will bring you State of the Race and also much, much more.

Right now on Capitol Hill, for example, James Biden, the President's brother, is testifying before the House Oversight Committee as Republicans try to sustain their struggling impeachment inquiry. Meanwhile, Republican frontrunner Donald Trump comparing his legal troubles to Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who died in a Russian penal colony. Plus, hundreds of workers strike at one of America's largest breweries, and thousands more could join them in the coming week. And we'll also have one more thing, scarce in the air multiple, flights diverted due to technical issues and unruly passengers.

But, we want to begin in Russia where the Kremlin is gloating after the capture of Avdiivka in Ukraine. This is video from outside Moscow, where you see Russian President Vladimir Putin thanking his troops. Russia is trying to capitalize after the fall of the key city, with its forces probing deeper and deeper into Ukrainian territory. All this as the Kremlin's all-out invasion hits its two-year anniversary on Saturday.

This week also marks a decade since the Euromaidan protests ousted Ukraine's pro-Russian government. On Tuesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy honored victims killed in the protests. Supporters of the uprising hope that their sacrifice would pull Ukraine out of Russia's orbit and into the EU. But, at this moment, at this very moment, a major U.S. foreign aid bill remains stalled in Congress. And the Zelenskyy government says that it is in desperate need of Western weapons and supplies.

Here was Ukraine's Foreign Minister speaking to CNN's Christiane Amanpour.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Can you hold out? You say you will not fall, but a big town has fallen, or a medium- sized town, and they're putting pressure on the second biggest city in Ukraine right now.

DMYTRO KULEBA, UKRAINIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: We wouldn't lose Avdiivka if we had received all the artillery ammunition that we needed to defend it. That is my answer to your question.

AMANPOUR: Simple as that.

KULEBA: I don't think it requires any additional comments.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOLOMON: All right. For the latest, let's go to CNN's Fred Pleitgen who is live for us in Berlin. Fred, you were in Ukraine recently. I mean, is that the assessment on the ground there that this lack of aid is already having a real effect on the battlefield?

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it certainly is having a real effect on the battlefield in places like of Avdiivka, especially had when we were -- we were actually with Ukrainian artillery units around that area, and they were saying that they had drastically -- had to decrease the amount of shells that they were able to fire. And one of the big issues that they were having is that the Russians just kept assaulting with more and more forces towards the frontlines. And Ukrainians were taking a lot of those Russian soldiers that were assaulting out.

But, at some point, they were simply overwhelmed because they didn't have the kind of manpower that Russia has, and they certainly didn't have the kind of firepower that Russia has either, especially in light of the fact that they just had fewer and fewer artillery shells at the ready to be able to fire at the Russian. So, yes, that certainly was a big problem for the Ukrainians in the battle for Avdiivka, and quite frankly, in a lot of other places also along the frontlines.

But, it really is only part of the problem for the Ukrainians, because the other big issue that they have is the manpower issue. The Ukrainians have had a big problems mobilizing enough people to go to the frontlines and to fight there. One of the things that units that had to leave, especially Avdiivka, said is that manpower was a big issue for them, where they simply couldn't plug all the holes, as they put it, that the Russians were seeping into as their assaults were continuing. So, that's definitely a tall task for the President, for Volodymyr Zelenskyy and his administration and certainly also for the Ukrainian military to mobilize more people to go to the frontlines and to fight there, to try and prevent something like Avdiivka from happening in the future. So, that was a big issue for the Ukrainians.

And we just had that map up, which I think is very important as well, showing some of the areas where the Russians are currently pushing because it's not just in the area around Avdiivka.

[11:05:00]

It's also south of there in the area around Marinka. You have to the south of that, Vuhledar, which is also an extremely important place. And then if you look up north, there is a town there called Kreminna that people should really pay attention to. That's also one of those places where the Russians are trying to push forward using a lot of aviation bombs, but also using a lot of their own artillery as well, Rahel.

SOLOMON: And Fred, on the issue of artillery and aid, I mean, there still remains a huge question mark in terms of what happens in Washington. But, can Europe make up the difference?

PLEITGEN: That -- it -- that's a very, very tough question, I think. Europe is going to be able to make up some of it or maybe even most of it at some point, but not in the near-term futures. It's sort of the assessment that we're getting from the ground here from Europe. Of course, some of the biggest companies that are producing artillery ammunition on the European continent are in the country that I'm in right now, are in Germany, who say that they are ramping up production. But, all of that, they also say, does take a little bit of time.

I think no one in Europe is under any illusion that the United States could be completely replaced as far as aid to Ukraine is concerned. The German Chancellor said that just last week at the Munich Security Conference that the United States is irreplaceable as far as the aid is concerned. So, certainly, the European countries very much hoping that that military aid does get confirmed by the House of Representatives. But, Europe itself is trying to ramp up the production of artillery ammunition. It seems as though it could be a little bit further this year that that really gets into gear. Certainly, European countries are sending weapons and ammo. You look at Denmark, for instance, recently saying that they're going to give all of their artillery to the Ukrainians.

But, as far as the ammunition is concerned, that is something that could bleed into the second half of the year for that actually to really get started. So, that certainly could be bad news for the Ukrainians. The Ukrainians, for their part, by the way, reacting to all of this as well. They recently announced that they want to create a whole new part of their military that relies only on unmanned system, on drones to try and make up for some of the lack that they have in ammunition, and of course, also in weapons as well, Rahel.

SOLOMON: Yeah. Ukraine, I think, has been pretty clear the last two years. The time is something that is in short supply, something that they do not have a lot of.

Fred Pleitgen live for us in Berlin. Fred, thanks so much.

All right. Now to a really stunning admission from a former FBI informant now charged with lying about the business dealings of President Joe Biden and his son Hunter. Prosecutors say that Alexander Smirnov told investors or investigators that he received the information from senior Russian intelligence officials. But, that's not all. They say that the dual U.S.-Israeli citizen who was arrested last week is "actively peddling new lies that could impact the November presidential election".

Let's bring in CNN' Katelyn Polantz for more. Katelyn, really just a stunning bombshell report. Walk us through what the findings were.

KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Right, Rahel. The Justice Department is now making clear that they believe this longtime informant, Alexander Smirnov, this man arrested in Las Vegas last week, appearing in court this week, released as he awaits trial on lying charges for lying to the FBI as he was funneling money to them. He is now telling the Justice Department even recently that he was in touch with Russian intelligence, and some of the information that he shared with the FBI that would smear Hunter Biden and Joe Biden was coming from Russia.

That is on top of other information he was providing the FBI about Joe and Hunter Biden that the Justice Department, the Biden administration, they say is absolutely false. They've done the investigation into this. They say now that Smirnov and all of these things that he was saying, trying to connect Joe Biden and Hunter Biden falsely to Burisma, the Ukrainian energy company, at a time when Joe Biden was running for the presidency in 2020, that is information that is not correct. And that could have influenced that election. And now, they say he was getting information from Russian officials in a way that could influence the 2024 election when Joe Biden is running for reelection as the President.

From a court filing, they wrote, this is the Justice Department, "What this shows is that the misinformation Alexander Smirnov is spreading is not confined to 2020. He is actively peddling new lies that could impact U.S. elections after meeting with Russian intelligence officials in November." That was this past fall. After his arrest, he was planning, if he hadn't been arrested, to go abroad again and to meet with foreign intelligence officials. That's what he told the Justice Department. The judges letting him loose to await his trial. He is not going to be in jail for that. But, the Justice Department clearly has a lot of concerns about this man.

SOLOMON: Katelyn, how is this playing out on Capitol Hill? I imagine this really sort of gets at the heart of the Republicans inquiry and to the President.

[11:10:00]

I mean, how is this -- how are lawmakers responding to this?

POLANTZ: Well, Rahel, they are digging in. So far, the reporting we're getting out of Capitol Hill is that Republicans are saying it's not impacting their impeachment inquiry at all to know that this man had put lies into the bloodstream about Joe Biden and Hunter Biden and the financial ties they had to Ukraine, Burisma, etcetera. Those were claims that this man had made, Alexander Smirnov, that were false, and that did become part of what was fueling the Republican impeachment inquiry. Yet, they're not done. They want to keep pursuing things.

And so, Republicans right now have James Biden, Joe Biden's brother, in a closed-door deposition, interviewing him. They plan to speak to Hunter Biden again next week. In addition to James Biden, they plan to speak to Hunter Biden. And then, on top of that, they are also putting out publicly some statements saying, what's going on, Justice Department? Why were you using this guy for so long, and why are we just learning about this now?

SOLOMON: Yeah. Certainly a lot of questions. We should say that James Biden appeared there within the last hour or so. So, still really early. We'll wait to see what we can ultimately find out. Katelyn Polantz live for us in Washington. Katelyn, thank you.

Well, the trial of the weapons handler for the movie "Rust", that trial starts today. Hannah Gutierrez has pleaded not guilty to a charge of involuntary manslaughter. That's after cinematographer Halyna Hutchins was killed by a live round fired from a prop gun. You may remember, actor Alec Baldwin was holding the revolver when it went off. He also faces an involuntary manslaughter charge.

Let's bring in CNN's Josh Campbell, who joins us from Los Angeles. So, Josh, again, today marking the start of what prosecutors are calling justice for Halyna Hutchins. What can we expect?

JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Rahel. Prosecutors all along have reminded the public that someone died after this accident. No one is disputing it was an accident, but prosecutors bringing charges, trying to hold those that they believe responsible, accountable. Now, today is what's called jury selection. This is for Hannah Gutierrez-Reed who was the armor on the set of this movie. Anytime you have a movie involving firearms, you have someone whose job is to ensure the safe handling of those weapons, the safe storage of ammunition.

Prosecutors allege here that Hannah Gutierrez-Reed was negligent, charging her with involuntary manslaughter. She also faces a separate charge that involves tampering with evidence. Authorities say that on the day of the shooting, after she was interviewed by police, she had handed off a small bag of cocaine to someone. The reason why the drugs are important here is because in court filings, prosecutors allege that they believe that Gutierrez-Reed was hung over. Witnesses had indicated that she had been using drugs and had been drinking throughout the course of this movie. The reason why that's important is because if anyone on the set of that movie needs to be lucid and aware of what's happening, it's the person who is responsible for safety. Now, she all along has maintained her innocence.

But, I talked initially with the lead prosecutor in this case. I spoke to her exclusively, asking why the charges now? What is this negligence that you were talking about? Listen here to what investigators found.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARY CARMACK-ALTWIES, NEW MEXICO FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT ATTORNEY: There was such a lack of safety and safety standards on that set, that there were live rounds on set. They were mixed in with regular dummy rounds. Nobody was checking those or at least they weren't checking them consistently. And then, they somehow got loaded into a gun, handed off to Alec Baldwin, and then he pointed the gun at Halyna Hutchins and he pulled the trigger.

(END VIDEO CLIP) CAMPBELL: Now, her attorney tells CNN that his client is being scapegoated. I think one defense that we will be looking for as this trial moves on is that, according to the attorney, Hannah Gutierrez- Reed wasn't just the armor on the set, but also been assigned other duties, including handling props. And I've spoken with numerous security experts here in Hollywood who say that that's just unheard of. If you have guns, you need to have one person whose sole job is to focus on those guns. So, I expect that we're going to hear throughout her defense that she was saddled with all these other responsibilities and making it that much more difficult to keep track of the weapons, Rahel.

SOLOMON: Yeah. Well, Josh, we know you'll keep us posted. It's a story, of course, and a case that has really gotten international attention. Keep us posted. Josh Campbell for us --

CAMPBELL: You bet.

SOLOMON: -- live in LA.

All right. Coming up, hear why the former President Donald Trump is comparing himself to the legacy of Alexei Navalny, just days away from South Carolina's Republican primary. Plus, as the threat of famine looms in Gaza, a CNN exclusive report finds that a UN food convoy came under Israeli fire despite a previous agreement on its route. We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[11:15:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SOLOMON: Welcome back. Donald Trump and Nikki Haley have three more days to win over voters before the South Carolina Republican primary. And one CBS News poll shows the former President retaining a pretty commanding lead there ahead of Haley, the state's former governor. Trump had this to say about his opponent last night. Listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: She is not working. She is here. She is down by 30, 35 points. And everybody knows her. You're not supposed to lose your home state. It shouldn't happen anyway. And she is losing it big. I mean, really, I said big (inaudible). I don't think she knows how to get out, actually. I really don't.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOLOMON: All right. Let's go to CNN's Kylie Atwood, who joins us live from North Augusta, South Carolina. So, Kylie, what can you share with us about how Haley's camp has been responding to some of these attacks from Trump, and what is she expecting in this primary in her home state? KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. Well, listen, Nikki Haley's campaign has seen, Trump made comments pretty routinely over the last few months about his desire for her to drop out, then saying he doesn't really care if she stays out or drops in now, saying that he doesn't believe that she knows how to get out.

But, her case has been and continues to be particularly after yesterday where she delivered this speech on the State of the Race that she is going to stick it out for as long as she can here, saying that even after the South Carolina primary on Saturday that she is still going to be campaigning for President on Sunday. Her campaign is looking ahead to the Michigan primary to Super Tuesday. They're actually up with a new ad in Michigan today. So, they're putting their money where their mouth is in terms of looking ahead.

But, when it comes to South Carolina, which we're all going to be focused on, on Saturday, the polls in this state do show her considerably behind former President Trump by 30, 35 points in many of these polls, and even though earlier this week she predicted that it was going to be close. It was going to be competitive. We haven't seen her talking about specific expectations for Saturday after the New Hampshire primary where she lost to Trump by 11 points. She said that she really needed to do better than that in South Carolina. But, she hasn't been saying that recently, likely a recognition that it's not going to go incredibly well for her here in her home state.

But, her campaign wanted to make the message very clearly this week that she is still going to stick in this race. And one of the reasons that she said is fueling her decision here is that she wants the American voters to have an option at the polls. She says that they deserve to have an option before them. They don't deserve to have a Soviet-style campaign where there is just one candidate who gets 99 percent of the vote.

Now, when you talk about going ahead to Super Tuesday and potentially beyond, you do have to look at the funds. Nikki Haley's campaign had their best fundraising month-to-date in January, hauling in about $15 million. But, her super PAC, we're just learning this week, ended the month of January with only $1.9 million in cash. They spent more than $17 million in the month of January alone. So, they are dwindling in terms of resources, and that will be a critical factor as she considers how she is able to continue her campaign through Super Tuesday and potentially beyond.

[11:20:00]

Rahel.

SOLOMON: Yeah, saying that she plans to stick it out for the long haul. We'll see what the long haul ultimately looks like. Kylie Atwood live for us in South Carolina. Kylie, thank you.

And let's dive deeper now into all of this with today's panel. Maria Cardona is a CNN Political Commentator and Democratic Strategist. Alice Stewart is also a CNN Political Commentator and the former Communications Director for Ted Cruz. Welcome to you both. Alice, let me just start with you. I'm curious, you heard the former President there say you're not supposed to lose your home state. I mean, does he have a point? I mean, if Haley loses South Carolina, is this just a symbolic bruise to her ego, or is there a valid point that mathematically the math is just is really not mapping?

ALICE STEWART, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR, & REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Look, I mean, there is a magic number you have to get to in terms of the number of delegates you have to have or electoral votes. And she is not racking up points in that category. And look, it will be a tremendous personal and political blow to lose South Carolina. But, looking at the numbers, there is no escaping that.

But, if you listen to what she said in her speech yesterday and what she is maintained on the trail, she is in this to run for President. She is not in this to run for Vice President or a position in a Trump administration. And she made it quite clear yesterday that, look, she is in this for all the right reasons, not for her next reason, and she wants to make sure that all voters, Republican voters have a choice and not a coronation of Donald Trump. So, look, it would be hard to do from a campaign standpoint, but she is determined to continue to give Republican voters a choice.

SOLOMON: Yeah. It's interesting. We heard the former President make the point last night when discussing who he might consider for VP. He said he is not considering Nikki Haley. And as you pointed out, it doesn't seem like that's the role that she wants anyway.

Let me bring you in, Maria. I mean, one thing we also heard from the former President was this comparison that some would call at the very least puzzling to Alexei Navalny. Let's listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TRUMP: It's happening in our country too. We are turning into a communist country in many ways. And if you look at it, I'm the leading candidate. I get indicted. I never heard of being indicted before. I was -- I got indicted four times. I have eight or nine trials. It is the form of Navalny. It is a form of communism or fascism.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOLOMON: Maria, your reaction to the comparison.

MARIA CARDONA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR, & DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: It's not just puzzling. It is downright delusional. You listen to that and you think to yourself, which I guess is something many people say when they listen to Donald Trump, what reality is he living in? I think that it is clearly something that he talks about with his base. He knows that it mobilizes them. He got lots of cheers when he was talking about that on that town hall, on that other network last night. And so, he knows that this is something that certainly makes his base excited, motivates them, injects the continued belief that he is a -- someone in this country that his opponents are going after simply for politics, and that it has nothing to do with all of the criminality that he has been involved in. I think it's shameful. I think it's un-American, and I think it's dangerous, because again, he is lying to his supporters. He is making sure that Putin also hears what he is saying. We know that Putin is somebody that he has liked before. He has said really positive things about. And he has not even been able to -- Donald Trump has not even been able to denounce Putin for the murder of Navalny. And so, I think all of that stirs the pot of how dangerous and what an existential threat Donald Trump is to this country and to our democracy.

SOLOMON: Alice, Trump also made the point -- go on. Finish your thought. Go ahead.

STEWART: No. I think, look, I agree with Maria. I think trying to put some type of moral equivalency on Navalny and Trump, that is the epitome of fake news. Look, Navalny died a political martyr, a hero. Donald Trump lives in political mayhem. That's what he thrives on. Navalny stood up to Putin. Donald Trump bows down to him. And there is one person to blame for Navalny's fate and that is Vladimir Putin. There is one person to blame for Donald Trump's fate in the legal world, and that is Donald Trump. He is engaged in a lot of legal issues because of his own doing, and to say that he is a victim or a martyr in this situation is completely false.

SOLOMON: We're running out of time. But, I would like, actually, both of you to weigh in on this. So, if you can't keep it quick. Alice, let me stick with you for a moment. Trump said last night that he would like to debate Biden, often, early, frequent.

[11:25:00]

Do you think that that's a good idea? I mean, one, standing next to Biden, perhaps some might say he could run the risk of looking less presidential. Do you think that that's a good idea for him and his base?

STEWART: I think it's a tremendous idea. Say what you will about Donald Trump, he is fiery. He is feisty, and he has command of the policies, and he can show a contrast of his policies versus the failed policies of the Biden administration. That is a winner for Donald Trump.

SOLOMON: Maria, well, what do you think? Biden, his camp, certainly they want to put them out there. They want them to look young, strong, invigorated. Is that a good idea for him?

CARDONA: I think that -- I think he should do it and I think he can do it, and I think he would wipe the floor with Donald Trump with -- in terms of his own policies, the future of this country, what he has done for the country versus what Donald Trump has done, and what Donald Trump will do. And again, what an existential threat Donald Trump will be to this country, all of the ridiculous things that Donald Trump has said, including what we just talked about, with Navalny, but also all of the insanity that has been and the chaos that has been Donald Trump on the campaign trail. So, I certainly would like to see it. Whether that's a decision that the Biden campaign is going to make, we'll see.

SOLOMON: We shall. Maria Cardona, Alice Stewart, good to see you both. Thank you.

CARDONA: Thank you.

STEWART: Thanks, Rahel.

SOLOMON: All right. Coming up for us, Russia is decorating soldiers who captured the eastern Ukrainian town of Avdiivka, as Ukrainian forces struggle with the latest setback in a war that will soon hit the two-year mark. Also, the flow of life-saving aid to Gaza is drying up amid relentless Israeli bombardment. Coming up, the latest from the Israel-Hamas war.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SOLOMON: Welcome back. You are watching CNN Newsroom, and I'm Rahel Solomon in New York. Here are some of the international headlines we're watching today.

The second and final day of the hearing in London for Julian Assange has just ended. A lawyer representing the U.S. argue that the WikiLeaks founder created a "grave and imminent risk to innocent people by publishing classified information on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan". Assange is seeking a new appeal in order to avoid extradition to the U.S.

U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in Brazil where he met with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. The two discussed the upcoming presidential elections and may also discuss the situation in Gaza. Just a few days ago, President Lula da Silva drew criticism from Israel when he compared the war in Gaza to the Holocaust. The State Department says that Washington does not agree with those comments.

Syria says that two people have been killed and one wounded. This is after Israeli missiles struck a residential building in Damascus.

[11:30:00]

Syrian state TV say that it happened just before 10 a.m. local time, and that several missiles targeted a residential building.

UK is sanctioning six employees of the Siberian penal colony were Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny died last week. And the European Union also announcing a new round of sanctions, specifically targeting Russia's production of military drones. And the U.S. says that for its part, it will follow with "major sanctions of its own aimed at Russia's economy as well as its defense."

I want to bring in my next guest to discuss all of these topics. Ian Bremmer is the President of the Eurasia Group, and he joins us in New York. Ian, always a pleasure to have you. Thanks for being here.

IAN BREMMER, PRESIDENT, EURASIA GROUP: Sure. Hi. SOLOMON: Let me start with the sanctions. I heard you say earlier that you were surprised and certainly, correct me if I'm wrong, that Europe hadn't sanctioned Russian drones as of yet. With this new round of sanctions, do you think that it will be effective?

BREMMER: No. Of course not. I was a little surprised. You think like they're fighting a war and they're seen as a war criminal. It's an illegal evasion. You think that the Europeans would have gotten around to sanctioning the drones makers and the rest so far. But, apparently, that was an oversight. I don't know. But look, the fact of the matter is that we've had 12 rounds of sanctions now from the Europeans. The assets have been frozen. That's a fairly big deal. None of this have prevented the Russians from continuing the invasion, continuing the attacks, missile strikes against cities, civilians, Ukrainian civilians across the country. And it's not going to, in part because the West needs the Russian economy to function.

Let's be clear that it is U.S. policy to allow the Russians and European policy to allow the Russians to continue to produce oil and gas and export it, because if they didn't, the world would be in a recession. It is American policy to allow them to produce food and fertilizer and to export it, because otherwise, millions of people would starve. So, you can only do so much to sanction the Russians. And the only thing that the West has found that is in any way effective on the ground in Ukraine is providing lots of weapons for the Ukrainians to defend themselves and to fight back against the Russians. And that's, of course, a big question for 2024, how much of that will continue from the NATO allies.

SOLOMON: So then, Ian, I mean, just following up on that. I mean, would you say that at least in this very moment with this major victory, the first in a year with aid at a standstill, with, of course, the death of Alexei Navalny, would you go so far as saying in this moment that it appears that Putin is winning?

BREMMER: No. No. I mean, aid at a standstill, I would take vigorous exception to. The Europeans just squeezed the Hungarians really hard and announced $50 billion a year of additional support for Ukrainian reconstruction in their budget. That is not peanuts. It really matters. The Europeans actually all in are spending more on Ukraine than the Americans are, something that we don't talk about as much as perhaps we should in the media. But, it matters.

There is a big debate about whether or not the U.S. will continue to provide military support for Ukraine. And I have no doubt that the town that the Ukrainians have lost, the first town that they have lost since last May, they've lost in part because the U.S. and the Europeans have not provided adequate levels of ammunition. The U.S. is -- there is a big debate right now in Congress. And I was at the Munich Security Conference. I saw Navalny's wife hours after she found out that he had been killed by the Russians or died in prison, excuse me, but we all know what happened. It was very emotional.

And American congressmen, Republicans and Democrats, understand that this is a direct slap to the Americans. It's Putin telling them that we -- I don't care what you do to me. I'm going to continue to act with impunity. And I do think that that is making it a little more likely that the Americans get another 20, 30, 40 plus billion dollars in military support for Ukraine in 2024. If you made me bet on that today, I'd say that those weapons are actually coming.

SOLOMON: Yeah. That's a really interesting point, Ian. Let me ask, since you mentioned this, the Munich Security Conference there, what can you share with us just in terms of your conversations, and just sort of what the sense is among world leaders about the U.S. right now, both in terms of the question mark, at the very least the question mark about future aid, but also the implications of 2024, the election?

BREMMER: They're deeply concerned, of course, and European allies, more than perhaps any other allies around the world, the Canadians are more affected, but they have no choice. They're so integrated with the U.S. economy. The Asian leaders, allies of the United States, not as worried because they know that Trump would be much more hawkish even towards China than Biden has been. And so, they feel like they'll be on the right side of that. The Gulf states, India, they don't really care.

[11:35:00]

They'll be fine with the Americans either way. The Europeans are really concerned and they're really concerned because they don't know if Trump is someone you can count on in terms of the American security umbrella, the collective security, Article 5. What would happen? For example, I was with the Estonian Prime Minister, who is a very strong figure, and her country is putting a lot more than the two percent of GDP into defense than the Americans are demanding. What would happen if the Russians were to engage in massive cyberattacks against Estonia? And would it put paramilitary forces on the ground to support an ethnic majority of Russians in the northeast of Estonia and secede from Estonia and try to join Russia? How might a Trump-led United States respond to a demand of collective security by Estonia?

And I think the answer is, they have no idea. They don't know if they'd be able to trust that the Americans would defend them if their country were soft invaded by the Russians. That's a serious problem. And the European response to that so far has been, we need to spend more money. But, the country is saying that most loudly are the ones that are already spending the most money in the polls, the Baltic, the Nordics, not the Germans or the Italians.

And it did lead to the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen talking about the need to create a common defense and industrial policy, something they should have been doing for the last 30 years. They talked about to creating a European Defense Commissioner. The whisper is that that would be Radek Sikorski, the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Poland. That's something they should have done years ago.

So, it's finally moving, and it's moving in part in response to Trump as likely, almost certain Republican nominee and very plausibly President again of the United States in 2025.

SOLOMON: Well, I mean, to that end, Ian, I guess we'll leave it here. Last question. What I thought was really interesting is that in your annual risk report for 2024, you say that the number one risk is the United States versus itself, and you make --

BREMMER: Yeah.

SOLOMON: -- the point, among other things, its political system. The U.S. is more dysfunctional than that of any other advanced industrial democracy adding, and then 2024 faces further weakening. And Ian, what I thought that was so interesting, as you make the point that whoever wins, whether it's Biden, or as you point out, presumably Trump, there will likely be a question about the legitimacy of the candidate, which leads to more dysfunction, perhaps.

BREMMER: Absolutely. I mean, Biden has been President for three years, but U.S. political dysfunction continues to grow irrespective of what you think about him now. That was true under Trump. That was true under Obama. That will be true after 2025. We don't have guardrails on the weakening legitimacy of U.S. political institutions. And the reason -- that's risk number one, is because of the impact of the United States. This political dysfunction is not coming hand in glove with the U.S. becoming weaker.

U.S. -- the United States is by far the most powerful country in the world, the strongest economy, the most powerful security capabilities, the most powerful AI and technological capabilities. And the Europeans, in particular, are very dependent upon it. And yet, its political system is increasingly far more dysfunctional than that of any European government. That's a serious problem for those leaders facing now -- entering the third year of war inside year.

SOLOMON: Yeah. And a stark warning for us all. We'll have to leave it here. Ian Bremmer, thank you for the time. Good to have you.

BREMMER: Sure. Good to see you.

SOLOMON: Famine doesn't have to happen. But, if things don't change, it will. That warning from the World Food Program as it has announced that it is suspending life-saving food deliveries to Northern Gaza because of unsafe conditions. This comes as a CNN exclusive report finds Israeli forces fired on a UN food convoy heading to Northern Gaza earlier this month. CNN has seen the correspondence between the UN and Israel's military that show both parties agreed on the convoy's route in advance. The IDF has not responded to CNN's repeated requests for comment. Now, on a separate incident, Palestinians say that desperate crowds gathering around food convoys have come under Israeli fire.

CNN's Nic Robertson has that report, and a warning that it does contain some disturbing images.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Gaza's food problem writ large, hunger trumping fear of Israeli bullets, news of a coming aid convoy carrying flour into the north of Gaza, converging crowds to plunder it. We came here and the Israelis started opening fire on us and were hit between the buildings, Hamza now says. When the fire stops, we come out again and wait for the flour. The IDF say they will look into this incident, but say they can't rule out Hamas shooting, desperation leading to looting, a growing problem in northern Gaza.

[11:40:00]

HAMISH YOUNG, SENIOR EMERGENCY COORDINATOR, UNICEF: We're talking tens and tens of thousands for 5, 10 trucks. It's -- the food that it is getting through is -- it's just a drop in the ocean. It's not nearly enough.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Theft so bad, the principal UN food supplier, the WFP, declaring Tuesday it will stop deliveries to the north. Compounding the already dire conditions, 15 percent of children under two have malnutrition.

YOUNG: It's now at an emergency level. According to international standards, once you're over 15 percent for acute malnutrition, that's a nutritional crisis and an emergency, and we are there.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): The most common thing that comes into hospital is malnutrition, Dr. Abu Safia says. It creates complications, sometimes even death.

Even before the World Food Program canceled food deliveries, children venting fears shared by adults, abandonment by the world.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No food. (Inaudible). Shame on you. Have dare you put your children while we eat animal food? Are you waiting our death?

ROBERTSON (voice-over): The whole family is dead, Um Abraham (ph) wails. Is he the last one alive, gesturing towards her grandson? As bad as hunger is, Israel's armaments remain more deadly, Adel Abraham's (ph) home in Nuseirat, central Gaza, one granddaughter dug out of the rubble, killed in the massive airstrike. Another clings to life as rescuers give her CPR. In southern Gaza where food supplies are slightly better, this plastic surgeon just out of the besieged on Al Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis, close to tears.

DR. AHMAD MOGHRABI, HEAD OF PLASTIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY, NASSER HOSPITAL: I couldn't offer anything to my children. We used to eat only bread. My children, they want some food, some sweets. I couldn't provide some sweets for my children. My little here, three-years-old, she used to ask me many things, but I couldn't provide my little girl.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SOLOMON: Nic joins us now from Tel Aviv. Nic, just on the heels of that, really troubling story there. There is a new poll out in Israel today. What does it tell us, and how are people feeling?

ROBERTSON: Yeah. Interestingly, it asked the question about, should humanitarian aid be sent into Gaza? And 68 percent of the Jewish population of Israel say no. 63 percent of the Jewish population of Israel, when asked the question about, should there be a political deal with -- a political peace deal with the -- sorry, let me just get these statistics right for you here. 63 percent of people say that there should not be a Palestinian state. Now, that's an important because that's something that the United States is really pressing for. So, 63 percent of the Jewish population of Israel say no to that. 55 percent of the population here say -- the Jewish population here say there shouldn't be a political agreement to reach a peace deal as well.

So, there is really strong sentiment you can see here to support, at least in some ways, what the government is saying, well, the government's narrative has changed, is not quite perceived as well here. That is the government says they can have complete and absolute victory over Hamas and that 51 percent of the Jewish population of Israel say they don't believe that is possible. Interesting, the Arab- Israeli population here votes pretty much in the opposite way to what the Jewish population votes here. They want aid get in. They want a peace deal by political means, all of these things.

SOLOMON: Yeah. Really strong opinions and then feelings there. Nic Robertson live for us in Tel Aviv. Nic, thank you.

All right. Coming up for us, some of America's biggest beer makers are facing labor strikes. We'll discuss why Coors came first, and Anheuser-Busch could come next, just ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[11:45:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SOLOMON: Welcome back. Just a few hours ago, Ford announced that it had reached a deal with the United Auto Workers union to avoid a strike at the company's biggest plant. The truck plant in the state of Kentucky had previously been without a local agreement despite the national deal reached last year to end a six-week strike. Now, at the same time, two major beer makers are facing potential work actions in the next few weeks. 400 Teamsters workers went on strike at Molson Coors on Saturday, and that's ahead of a March 1 strike deadline for 5,000 workers at Anheuser-Busch.

Let's bring in CNN Economics and Political Commentator, Catherine Rampell. Catherine always good to see you. Let me ask, it feels like we have seen a lot of strike activity, both in the U.S. and globally. I mean, what would you say is sort of behind the increased strike activity that we're all witnessing?

CATHERINE RAMPELL, CNN ECONOMICS COMMENTATOR, & WASHINGTON POST COLUMNIST: You're right that it feels like we've seen a lot of additional strike activity, in fact, because we have seen a lot of additional strike activity. The Bureau of Labor Statistics put out a report today, saying that there were 33 major work stoppages last year, work stoppages meaning strikes and/or walkouts, they don't differentiate between the two, which is the highest number since 2000. So, clearly, they are at a recent peak in any event. And I think it has to do with a few different factors. One, of course, is that labor markets have been very tight. We've seen the unemployment rate below four percent (ph) for two years now, which means that workers have a little bit more bargaining power. You also have a lot of companies that have been doing very, very well as demand has been strong. They have high profits. And you see workers and the unions that organize them saying, well, hey, we deserve a larger slice of that pie. If you're doing well, our members should be doing well too. So, they're taking advantage of the moment.

SOLOMON: And then, what would you say in terms of what we've seen in terms of whether there is any direct inflationary impact? Is this sort of happening sort of on the margins, and so it's not enough, broadly speaking, to affect the path of inflation one way or the other? I mean, what would you say based on what we've already seen?

RAMPELL: Well, you have seen workers, again, not only those in unions asking for or demanding higher pay, because the cost of living has gone up so much. Right? They see that their existing salaries have had their purchasing power eaten away by that rising inflation. And now, wages have caught up, and in fact, surpassed inflation in the past several months or a year. And the risk, if you are the Federal Reserve, is that that can come -- become a spiral, a wage price spiral that prices go up, wages go up, prices catch up even more, etcetera, etcetera. It does not look like that has been the case in the United States. Thankfully, we are not there.

[11:50:00]

In a lot of other countries, there is somewhat more of a risk of that kind of negative spiral happening, because for example, union contracts may already bake in the cost of inflation or -- excuse me, the pace of inflation automatically into wage increases and a larger share of the workforce may be unionized. So, you can see more of that happening, for example, in a lot of European countries where the institutions are just very different. And of course, if it's your salary that is rising to keep up with inflation or even surpass inflation, that's great. You want that to be the case. The problem is, if it happens economy-wide, it can be challenging. Of course, it doesn't seem like we are there yet within the United States. I don't think that that's really a risk at the moment.

But, you're going to see more of these labor actions happening, or, again, not even necessarily organized actions, but individual workers saying, hey, labor is scarce, continues to be scarce. My cost of living has gone up. I demand higher pay.

SOLOMON: Yeah. Really interesting. And as you point out, I mean, workers have had the upper hand. It'll be curious to see in 2024 if that remains to be the case. We'll get the next jobs report next Friday. And I'm sure you and I will likely be talking about it then. Catherine Rampell, thank you.

RAMPELL: Thank you.

SOLOMON: All right. Apple looking to get a bigger piece of the sports market. It just launched Apple Sports. It's a free iPhone app, giving fans access to real-time scores, statistics and news. This comes after the company secured rights to Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer games for its Apple TV Plus service. Now, the new app won't actually stream those games. Instead, it'll point users to the service that they're being shown on. And after that announcement, let's take a look at Apple stock. Last I checked, it was up about a third of a percent, still up about a third of a percent. And the Dow Jones, Nike, Verizon, all in the green. Taking a look, Dow, broadly though, actually slightly lower. NASDAQ was off about half a percent and the S&P off fractionally as well.

Take a look around the world and you can see global markets look a bit more mixed, FTSE 100 closing lower. Let's call it three quarters of a percent. Asian markets closing higher, about one percent to 1.5 percent.

And when I come back, I'm going to have one more thing, and it's the scare in the air and the last thing that the flight industry really needs right now while we are learning about an emergency landing in Denver, Colorado. We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

SOLOMON: All right. Announcing today is one more thing, scares in the air creating new unwanted attention for the U.S. airline industry. So, first, a United Airlines flight landed safely after being diverted to Denver due to problems with the wing. A passenger said that he heard vibration, then looked out the window and saw a pieces of the wing missing. You never want to hear that. Then, Tuesday, a flight to Chicago was forced to return to Albuquerque, New Mexico, shortly after takeoff, and that was due to an unruly passenger.

Let's bring in CNN Aviation Correspondent Pete Muntean. So, Pete, what do we know about this unruly passenger?

PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: This unruly passenger problem was a really big thing back in 2021 during the federal transportation mask mandate, but it seems that we could not ditch it and it continues to be a problem still in 2024. This passenger was on board this American Airlines flight. And other passengers on board tell CNN, the man was sitting in emergency exit row.

[11:55:00]

He tried to open the emergency exit, in fact, got the cover off that leads to the handle. Passengers started yelling. They tackled him, and then flight attendants came in and restrained this man with duct tape and flex cuffs. This was on American Airlines flight 1219 between Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Chicago, O'Hare, diverted back to Albuquerque because it's happened only about 20 minutes into the flight. You can see the video there where he is being led down the fire escape stairway on the jetway by police back in Albuquerque. Not clear if there has been an arrest here yet.

But, we do know the FBI is investigating. Also, the FAA investigating. It says, so far this year, there have been 254 incidents of unruly passengers on commercial flights. Compare that to the more than 5,900 cases back in 2021. The rate of incidence has gone way, way down. It did go up a little bit last summer. But, Rahel, my top tip on a commercial airliner, make sure you don't check a bag, but also be kind to your flight crew and try to keep it in the lane. Don't freak out. That is the big thing, and we keep seeing it over and over again.

SOLOMON: Great advice, Pete. Thank you. Keep calm. Chill out.

MUNTEAN: It should be obvious.

SOLOMON: Let's just be good to each other. Thank you, Pete.

MUNTEAN: Yeah.

SOLOMON: All right. Well, we know your time is money. So, thank you for spending some time with me. I'm Rahel Solomon in New York. Stay with CNN for One World coming up next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[12:00:00]

Content and programming copyright 2024 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020240221ek2l000gp


President of Ukraine - Agreement on security cooperation and long-term support between Ukraine and Denmark
President of Ukraine published this content on 23 Feb 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 23 Feb 2024 12:39:37 UTC.
3576 字
2024 年 2 月 23 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2024. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/ugoda-pro-spivrobitnictvo-u-sferi-bezpeki-ta-dovgostrokovu-p-89185]

Agreement on security cooperation and long-term support between Ukraine and Denmark

* Home

* News[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news]

* Current events[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/last]

Agreement on security cooperation and long-term support between Ukraine and Denmark

23 February 2024 - 14:38

Introduction

1. Ukraine and the Government of Denmark (hereinafter "the Participants", or "Ukraine" and "Denmark") decide on the following:

2. Russia's full-scale war of aggression against Ukraine has caused immense destruction and civilian casualties with monumental consequences for Ukraine, the whole of Europe and the international community. The return of war to the European continent is a stark reminder of Russia's expansionist and aggressive behaviour in direct violation of international law and the European security order.

3. Denmark reiterates its unwavering support for Ukraine's independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders as of 1991 including the territorial sea.

4. Denmark, together with the Nordic countries, immediately supported the Joint Declaration of Support for Ukraine (hereinafter the "G7 Declaration"), adopted by the Group of Seven (G7) and the EU on the margins of the NATO Summit in Vilnius. The Nordic countries, including Denmark, reiterated their support for the G7 Declaration as of 12 July 2023 and agreed to start bilateral negotiations with Ukraine on security commitments to be formalised in close coordination with G7 Allies and partners. Denmark hereby formalises its long-term bilateral security commitments to Ukraine.

5. As stated on multiple occasions, the Nordic countries stand united in bolstering Ukraine's resilience and capacity to defend itself and remain ready to support Ukraine for as long as it takes to restore its territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders. The Nordics are committed to lock-in support for Ukraine as it defends its sovereignty and territorial integrity, rebuilds its economy, protects its citizens, and advances its reform agenda, as it pursues its integration into the Euro-Atlantic community.

6. Recalling the long-standing diplomatic relations and friendship since Ukraine regained its independence in 1991, the Participants decide to deepen their cooperation and partnership by pursuing the long-term bilateral security commitments set forth in this Agreement, which are based on common interests in the defence of international peace and the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms.

Scope

7. Denmark's security commitments to Ukraine seek to complement contributions from the other participants of the G7 Declaration, including the EU and the Nordic countries. Denmark's security commitments to Ukraine are coordinated with Allies and partners.

8. Denmark stands ready on a regular basis to consult with Ukraine on strategic matters and to align and coordinate support delivered with the purpose of bolstering Ukraine's defensive fight against Russian aggression. Furthermore, Denmark would welcome, inter alia, regular Nordic-Ukraine strategic dialogue on the strengthening of Ukraine's defence, resilience and reform path.

9. Denmark's security commitments set forth in this Agreement reflect a strategic choice and involve comprehensive support to Ukraine's inherent right of self-defence against Russia's full-scale war of aggression and deterrence of future Russian aggression. Any extension of the security commitments will occur in dialogue between the Participants, and in coordination with Allies and partners.

10. Denmark will continue its support to Ukraine for the ten-year duration of this Agreement.

11. Denmark will provide long-term military support to Ukraine's self-defence, resilience and deterrence of future Russian aggression. In 2022, the Government of Denmark provided Ukraine with EUR 565 million in military support. In continuance, Denmark's Ukraine Fund of a total of EUR 8.5 billion covers ongoing support in 2023-2028. In 2024, the military support will amount to at least EUR 1.8 billion. Denmark's Ukraine Fund serves as the comprehensive framework for the long-term military and civilian support.

European and Euro-Atlantic Integration

12. Ukraine commits to implement reforms as defined by the EU, IMF and NATO covering, inter alia, governance, transparency, anti-corruption and democratic control over the security and defence forces. Ukraine's implementation of these reforms is essential for its EU and NATO aspirations.

13. The Participants reaffirm that Ukraine is integral to Euro-Atlantic and global security. Denmark is dedicated to supporting Ukraine's reform efforts on its path towards future NATO membership by, but not limited to, advancing practical and political cooperation through NATO's Comprehensive Assistance Package, Ukraine's adapted Annual National Programme and the newly established NATO-Ukraine Council. Denmark recalls that Ukraine belongs in the Euro-Atlantic family and will become a member of NATO.

14. The Participants reaffirm that Ukraine is part of the European family and has a future within the EU. Denmark acknowledges Ukraine's efforts to strive for the implementation of necessary reforms under extremely challenging circumstances. The Participants recall the merit-based nature of the EU accession process. They reaffirm their commitment to work constructively on Ukraine's progressive integration towards the Union, with a view to its future Union membership. Denmark, in cooperation with the EU and its Member States, will continue to support Ukraine in its reforms and accession path.

Comprehensive and long-term support to Ukraine's defence, resilience and deterrence of future Russian aggression

15. This Agreement on security commitments will cover ongoing, scheduled and future contributions to Ukraine's defence, resilience and future deterrence of Russian aggression. The security commitments will be funded by multiannual financing towards core military support complemented by wider elements of civilian support.

Deterrence and defence

16. Since the start of Russia's full-scale war of aggression in 2022, Denmark has been amongst the most significant contributors of military support to Ukraine and has pledged to sustain this level of support. Furthermore, Denmark has spearheaded efforts to form an international coalition providing Ukraine with a fighter jet capability. Denmark will continue the efforts to improve the capability of the security and defence forces of Ukraine to defend itself against Russian aggression as well as to deter further aggression in the future, and to enhance interoperability with NATO standards.

17. Ukraine will ensure that Danish military assistance is used exclusively for Ukraine's self-defence and is to be used by the security and defence forces of Ukraine against military objectives in accordance with international law, including international humanitarian law. The Participants will cooperate to prevent the diversion and the illegal circulation of military material provided to Ukraine.

18. Denmark's support will include short-term military needs as well as the long-term capacity building of Ukraine's Future Force. This will be achieved through the provision of continuous military support across different domains in coordination and cooperation with the relevant international partners and institutions, focusing on a) air force and air defence; b) maritime security; c) demining: d) technology and drones, as well as e) other key capabilities and urgent needs of Ukraine.

a) Air Force and Air Defence

Denmark will support efforts to build and strengthen Ukraine's Air Force and air defence as a co-lead of the Air Force Capability Coalition (AFCC) and a participant of the Capability Coalition of Integrated Air and Missile Defence. More specifically, Denmark will support efforts in securing a holistic F-16 capacity through the AFCC, including with the donation of fighter jets, ammunition, simulators and training as well as contributing to the long-term maintenance of the fighter jets and the establishment of the proper facilities in Ukraine.

b) Maritime Security

Denmark will contribute to the capacity building of Ukraine's maritime domain through cooperation with Allies and partners. The development of Ukraine's maritime fleet will be achieved through capacity building efforts, industrial cooperation and training efforts as well as donations.

c) Demining

Denmark will continue demining efforts in Ukraine by providing training efforts, donations of equipment and support in developing and sustaining international demining standards. This support will be coordinated with Allies and partners.

d) Technology and Drones

Denmark will provide Ukraine with high-tech military donations, such as drones, communications equipment, radars and detection equipment along with the necessary training in utilisation. This support will be facilitated through long-term defence industry cooperation where focus will also be placed on mutual industrial development and knowledge sharing.

e) Other key capabilities and urgent needs

Denmark commits to continuing its significant military support relative to size. Denmark will continue to provide Ukraine with military donations and keep enhancing training efforts and concepts to meet urgent needs on the battlefield. These efforts are essential in order to fully restore Ukraine's territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders as of 1991.

19. Danish military support will facilitate a modernisation of the security and defence forces of Ukraine and a greater degree of interoperability with the security and defence forces of Ukraine with NATO standards and other relevant international organisations. This includes, inter alia, the provision of equipment, training (including train-the-trainer programmes) and infrastructure required for greater NATO interoperability and compatibility, as well as support to the development of Ukrainian Future Force design.

20. Denmark will continue to channel military support to Ukraine through multilateral instruments, including NATO's Ukraine Comprehensive Assistance Package (UCAP) and EU's European Peace Facility (EPF).

Defence Industry cooperation

21. Denmark will contribute to the development of Ukraine's defence industrial base and identify opportunities for closer partnerships. Special attention will be given to the preservation of Ukraine's military edge necessary for the self-defence against Russia's full-scale war of aggression. The Participants will together identify priority investment areas, strengthen efforts to reduce existing barriers for cooperation, eliminate bottlenecks in the supply chain of defence materials, as well as encourage and support investments.

22. Ukraine and Denmark will cooperate on developing defence technologies, especially in the area of new technologies. Denmark will support development of Ukraine's defence industry in particular through investments, information exchange, joint R&D as well as production.

23. The Participants will work to identify funding sources required to enable development of Ukraine's defence industrial base, including investment and financial assistance, in particular in the time of war and post-war recovery.

24. Denmark will, where possible, support Ukraine's efforts to integrate its defence industry into NATO and EU defence and security frameworks.

25. The Participants will work together to facilitate the protection of any transferred technologies and intellectual property rights

Intelligence and security cooperation

26. The Participants will enhance the cooperation in the field of intelligence and security in accordance with applicable legal requirements and possibilities. This will be achieved through, but not limited to, intelligence sharing and cooperation including in the fields of counter-intelligence and training.

27. The Participants will seek to conclude a General Security of Information Agreement (GSOIA) between their respective countries that will facilitate greater information sharing between various Ukrainian and Danish government agencies.

Cyber security and countering disinformation

28. The Participants will cooperate to enable Ukraine to prevent, detect and counter Russian cyber aggression, cyber espionage and hybrid warfare, including through increased cooperation on cyber diplomacy, providing technical assistance to Ukraine, as well as to enhance its cyber resilience.

29. The Participants will continue cooperation in the field of countering Russian and any other actor's disinformation. They will jointly promote the development of Ukraine's capabilities to counter hybrid threats, Russian and any other malign propaganda and disinformation campaigns affecting national security and work for organizing joint education and training programmes for experts.

Reconstruction and resilience

30. Since the beginning of Russia's full-scale war of aggression, Denmark has provided civilian support for Ukraine's resilience, reconstruction and relief of the war-affected population. This Agreement on security commitments acknowledges and includes a continuation of such efforts with multi-year funding for civilian assistance and business development to support Ukraine's recovery.

31. Denmark commits to supporting reconstruction and resilience geared towards addressing urgent needs and creating the foundation for sustainable development. Denmark's commitment to support the reconstruction of Ukraine will continue to be agile and responsive. Ukraine and Denmark concur that the recovery process needs to be transparent and accountable to the people of Ukraine and the international community.

32. Energy supply security and protection of critical infrastructure remains crucial for Ukraine's resilience. In line with Denmark's co-lead of the Ukrainian Peace Formula working group on Energy Security, and building upon the current cooperation and support for Ukraine's energy infrastructure, Denmark will continue to provide long-term support to Ukraine's overall energy sector with a special focus on green energy transition.

33. The commitments will also involve the continuation of Denmark's partnership with the city of Mykolaiv and Mykolaiv Region. Denmark will actively engage with the city and the region to support their reconstruction, resilience and reforms.

34. Denmark will continue to work actively within the EU to ensure macro-financial support and to further international coordination. Denmark will support private sector cooperation including the established Ukraine-facility with loan­ and guarantee schemes under the Danish Export and Credit Fund (EIFO).

35. Since the start of Russia's full-scale war of aggression in 2022, Denmark has provided substantial support to humanitarian mine action in Ukraine. Russia's massive contamination of Ukrainian soil through ammunition, mines and other explosives remnants not only threatens protection of civilians, but also food security as well as undermines economic sustainability. Given the scale of the challenge, Denmark aims to continue providing funding to humanitarian demining efforts alongside partners.

36. Denmark will provide technical support for strategic sector partnerships like the energy program, UDEPP, the decentralisation program, U-lead, and municipal "twinning", through knowledge exchange and capacity development of authorities and civil society organisations. Denmark's commitments to Ukraine may also include specific initiatives for improving mental health of and psychosocial support for the Ukrainian society.

Political support

37. Ukraine and Denmark will work together for a just and lasting peace with broad global support, based on the Ukrainian Peace Formula. Denmark will continue its diplomatic efforts to promote Ukrainian Peace Formula.

Sanctions

38. The Participants will continue working to ensure that the costs to Russia for its aggression continue to rise, including through sanctions and export controls. The Participants recognise the value of sanctions in restricting Russia's access to the finance, goods, technology and services it is utilising in its war of aggression, in bearing down on Russia's revenue streams, and to deter future attacks.

39. Denmark will work for the strongest possible sanctions on Russia, while ensuring their effectiveness. Denmark will continue to take determined action through the EU to uphold sanction pressure on Russia and to tackle all forms of sanctions circumvention as long as Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine continues and Ukraine's territorial integrity is not restored.

40. Ukraine and Denmark will provide each other with up-to-date information on the grounds for sanctions and other relevant information, in compliance with relevant obligations.

Commitment to implement reforms

41. Denmark recognises the significant progress Ukraine has made in implementing reforms. Ukraine reiterates its continued commitment to implementing reforms including in the areas of governance, anti­corruption and defence and security. Ukraine commits to continue implementing reforms to support and protect Ukraine's democracy and rule of law.

42. Denmark will provide technical and financial resources to support Ukraine's reform path. This involves supporting Ukraine's reform process on the path towards future membership of EU and NATO. In particular, Denmark will support EU's anti­corruption initiative (EUACI) to give national anti-corruption stakeholders the tools and technical assistance to counter corruption.

43. Ukraine commits to further advancing reforms improving governance through strengthening institutional controls, improving resilience and building a just and inclusive society. Ukraine will actively work for promoting public trust in the rule of law and strengthening of the independence of the judiciary.

44. Ukraine commits to advancing anti-corruption efforts at all levels of society across the public sector, the private sector and civil society. This includes ensuring sufficient resources for the independent anti-corruption institutions for the benefit of society as a whole.

45. Ukraine commits to advancing and developing democratic control and oversight with its security and defence forces and within the wider security and defence sector by focusing on further improving oversight, accountability and transparency across its security institutions essential for building their legitimacy, efficiency and accountability.

Promoting accountability

46. The Participants reaffirm their commitment to ensuring accountability for international crimes committed in Ukraine, including the crime of aggression. The Participants will continue their work, including in the Core Group, to establish a tribunal to ensure accountability for the crime of aggression against Ukraine.

47. The Participants will continue to promote effective domestic investigation and prosecution of international crimes within Ukraine and will continue to support the work of the International Criminal Court.

48. The Participants reaffirm that the Russian Federation is to be held accountable for the damages inflicted on Ukrainian territory. Russian sovereign assets should remain immobilised until the Russian Federation has paid for the damage it has caused to Ukraine. Denmark, working with its partners in the EU, will continue to pursue all lawful routes through which revenues from Russian assets can be used to support Ukraine, in accordance with European and international law.

49. As a priority, the Participants will continue to work together along with like-minded partners towards the establishment of a compensation mechanism to provide compensation for damage, loss or injury caused by Russia's aggression, as envisaged by the Statute of the Register of Damage Caused by the Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine adopted by the Resolution of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe CM/Res(2023)3. In this regard, the Participants will explore appropriate options for the financing of a compensation mechanism consistent with international law in order to provide prompt and adequate compensation to victims of aggression.

Cooperation in the event of a future armed attack

50. In the event of future Russian armed attack against Ukraine, at the request of either Participant, the Participants will consult within 24 hours, bilaterally or via other channels they both deem suitable, in order to determine appropriate next steps.

51. Denmark, in accordance with its respective legal and constitutional requirements, will provide swift and sustained security assistance, modern military equipment across land, sea and air domains, and economic assistance, to impose economic and other costs on Russia, and to consult on Ukraine's needs as it exercises its right of self-defence enshrined in Article 51 of the UN Charter.

52. In order to ensure the widest and most effective collective response to future armed attacks, the Participants may amend these provisions in order to align with any mechanism that they may subsequently agree with their other international partners, including the participants of the G7 Declaration.

Consultation, coordination and review

53. In order to facilitate the implementation of this Agreement on security commitments and to ensure an ongoing strategic dialogue, appropriate consultation structures between the Participants will be arranged.

54. The Participants will, if necessary, designate authorised bodies for the development and implementation of bilateral agreements in accordance with the areas of cooperation specified in this Agreement.

55. The security commitments are subject to ongoing review in order to monitor progress on implementation with a special focus on ensuring adherence to accountability and transparency.

Final Provisions

56. This Agreement may be amended and supplemented, including by adding annexes thereto, at any time by the written consent of the Participants.

57. Any disputes between the Participants arising out of the interpretation and/or implementation of this Agreement will be settled amicably through negotiation or consultation between the Participants.

58. This Agreement will come into effect upon signatory of the Participants, and is valid for ten years from the date of its signature.

59. The Participants can jointly decide to extend this Agreement through notification no later than 6 months prior to the lapse of the ten-year period.

60. At the same time and in accordance with the G7 Declaration, the Participants share the opinion that this Agreement is without prejudice to Ukraine pursuing a pathway toward future membership in the Euro-Atlantic Community.

61. In the event that Ukraine becomes a member of NATO before the expiry of this Agreement, the participants will decide on its future status.

62. This Agreement may be terminated by either Participant by giving written notice to the other Participant. This Agreement will be terminated 6 months from the date of receipt of such notice. The termination will not affect the implementation of ongoing activities or projects, which have been decided prior to the date of its termination, unless the Participants decide otherwise.

Signed in Lviv on 23 February 2024, in duplicate, in the English and Ukrainian languages, the English version of which shall prevail in the event of any discrepancy.

For Ukraine: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy

For Denmark: Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/ugoda-pro-spivrobitnictvo-u-sferi-bezpeki-ta-dovgostrokovu-p-89185]

Disclaimer

President of Ukraine published this content on 23 February 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 23 February 2024 12:40:26 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020240223ek2n00efi


搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	丹麦
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	85
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 6:44 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate
