跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
(w/ADD) First sanctions package includes Russian banks, politicians and elements of financial sector - Rinkevics
Inese Trenča
322 字
2022 年 2 月 22 日 18:06 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
(adds comment from foreign minister in paragraphs 3-7)

RIGA, Feb 22 (LETA) - The European Union's (EU) Foreign Affairs Council at an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday agreed to impose sanctions on Russia, with the first sanctions package targeting banks, politicians and elements of the financial sector, Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics (New Unity) said on Twitter.

The Latvian minister indicated that further measures will follow if the situation escalates and added that the bloc's decisions have been coordinated with transatlantic partners.

In a conversation with LETA, the minister said that lists of the sanctioned persons and entities will be made public shortly.

Asked why it is important to sanction these particular sectors, Rinkevics said that first of all. these are people that are linked to Russia's decision to recognize independence of the "People's Republics" of Donetsk and Luhansk.

Secondly, the sanctions will apply to the financial and trade sector to impede and hamper financial contacts. Thirdly, the sanctions have been agreed with transatlantic partners, Rinkevics said.

The minister added that after the adoption of the political decision at the informal meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council, the decision will soon be approved in a legal procedure, which is likely to be in a written form.

Asked if the EU Foreign Affairs Council also discussed possible further sanctions, Rinkevics conformed that the matter was discussed and that member states will work on proposals for a second package of sanctions.

As reported, Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday signed a decree on recognition of independence of Ukrainian separatist republics and the treaties on friendship, cooperation and mutual aid.

On Monday evening, Putin ordered the Defense Ministry to ensure that the Russian armed forces "maintained peace" in the eastern Ukrainian territories that have already been occupied earlier by bringing Russian armies in them.

42463033453246322D304533322D3443

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220222ei2m004mp


The UK's permanent representative to the UN, Dame Barbara Woodward, has told an...
14106 字
2022 年 2 月 22 日 22:49 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The UK's permanent representative to the UN, Dame Barbara Woodward, has told an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council that "Russia has brought us to the brink", as she urged the country to "step back".

Cabinet minister Sajid Javid said: "We are waking up to a very dark day in Europe and it's clear from what we have already seen and found out today that the Russians, President Putin, has decided to attack the sovereignty of Ukraine and its territorial integrity."

The Health Secretary told Sky News: "We have seen that he has recognised these breakaway eastern regions in Ukraine and from the reports we can already tell that he has sent in tanks and troops.

"From that you can conclude that the invasion of Ukraine has begun."

Latvia's foreign minister said sanctions are effective in the long term in response to Vladimir Putin's actions in Ukraine.

Edgars Rinkevics told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "In a short perspective, yes of course - sanctions cannot stop Russia from invading Ukraine or from doing what they did, but in the long term, especially, those sanctions are related to technology transfers, to financial sector, they actually would slow down developmental pressure and that would actually repeat some kind of Soviet Union experience.

"That at one given time in history, Soviet Union simply collapsed."

He called for the UK, EU and US to apply sanctions to oligarchs and key contacts of Mr Putin, increase Nato's presence on Russia's borders from the Baltics to Romania, to support civil society in Russia, and back Ukraine financially and with military equipment.

The sanctions being considered by Boris Johnson will target individuals closely linked to the Kremlin, Sajid Javid said.

The Health Secretary told LBC: "There will be sanctions, the Prime Minister has been clear about that.

"I am sure from what has already been shared by the Prime Minister that individuals that have close contacts with the Russian regime will be targeted, as will certain economic sectors."

Kurt Volker, a former US ambassador to Nato, said Russia's actions in Ukraine have created a "very dire" situation.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Russian leader Vladimir Putin's decision to recognise two regions of Ukraine as independent states "opens the door to a lot of new steps by Russia".

"We've already seen him putting forces into those territories. The portion of Luhansk and Donetsk that Russia occupies are not the entire territory of Luhansk and Donetsk.

"So that also opens the possibility that they will view Ukraine as an occupier of those territories, and then fight to remove Ukrainian forces and take more.

"That in turn could lead to much greater skirmishes and fighting with Ukrainian forces which could easily escalate out of control, so this is a very, very dire time."

He said "devastating sanctions" should be imposed immediately.

General Sir Richard Sherriff, Britain's former top Nato commander, has called the Ukraine situation the most perilous in Europe for decades.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "This is the most dangerous moment in Europe probably at least since 1962 and the Cuban missile crisis, but it could be much worse than that because this is the invasion of a sovereign country which could turn into a catastrophic war with warfare on a scale not seen in Europe since 1945.

"So I think it's difficult to overstate the seriousness of the situation."

He said that while the war would initially be between Ukraine and Russia, the possibility that Nato could get involved is "very real".

He told the programme: "Nato has got to man the ramparts now."

He added that the West has to "assume the worst" when it comes to Russia's nuclear strategy.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has "completely torn up international law" by his actions in Ukraine and there will now be an "immediate package of economic sanctions", Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said.

These sanctions will be aimed not just at entities at regions including Donetsk but also "in Russia itself, targeting Russian economic interests as hard as we can".

He said further details will be given in the House of Commons later today.

Mr Johnson was speaking in Downing Street after a 6.30am meeting of the Cobra committee where he was briefed on the latest intelligence after Mr Putin ordered his troops to carry out "peacekeeping" duty in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.

Boris Johnson has said the "first barrage of UK economic sanctions against Russia" will be revealed today as he warned Vladimir Putin is bent on a "full scale invasion of Ukraine".

After hosting an emergency Cobra meeting, the Prime Minister said: "This is I should stress just the first barrage of UK economic sanctions against Russia because we expect I'm afraid that there is more Russian irrational behaviour to come.

"I'm afraid all the evidence is that President Putin is indeed bent on a full scale invasion of the Ukraine, the overrunning, the subjugation of an independent, sovereign European country and I think, let's be absolutely clear, that will be absolutely catastrophic."

Boris Johnson said the UK will work to ensure that "Putin should fail" if he carries out a full-scale invasion of Kyiv, "which is what he seems to be proposing to do".

The Prime Minister told broadcasters that the UK will continue diplomatic efforts to avert violence but added: "I just want everybody to be in no doubt that if Vladimir Putin continues down this track of violence, of aggression, of a full-scale invasion, of encircling Kyiv itself which is what he seems to be proposing to do, capturing the Ukrainian capital, it is absolutely vital that that effort, that conquest of another European country, should not succeed and that Putin should fail."

Boris Johnson said the UK's sanctions will hit the "economic interests that have been supporting Russia's war machine".

Speaking after a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee, the Prime Minister said: "They will hit Russia very hard and there is a lot more that we are going to do in the event of an invasion.

"Be in no doubt that if Russian companies are prevented from raising capital on the UK financial markets, if we unpeel the facade of Russian ownership of companies, of property, it will start to hurt."

Boris Johnson said there had been a failure to stand up to Russia in 2014 when Crimea was annexed.

"We have got to recognise that we were not tough enough and in the end we didn't do enough, as Europeans, to wean ourselves off Russian hydrocarbons, off Russian oil and gas," the Prime Minister said.

The volatility in gas prices in Europe was a "consequence of that failure", he said.

"We have got to make sure that we cut the umbilicus, we snip the drip feed into our bloodstream from Nord Stream," he added.

Boris Johnson said Russian President Vladimir Putin has "gravely miscalculated" the situation.

"He believes that Ukraine has no real right to exist as a sovereign, independent country," the Prime Minister said.

"But that goes against everything that we struggled to achieve at the end of the Cold War, it goes against the aspirations of the Ukrainian people.

"The most difficult thing now for Vladimir Putin in prosecuting this war... he will come up against something that I think will be very hard for him to beat, and that is the Ukrainian sense of national pride and their determination to defend their country and to fight for it."

Speaking about the crisis in Ukraine at a Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "What we saw through the night was President Putin's declaration that he is going to recognise independent states in the Donbas region, which includes territory which is actually on the other side of the line of control.

"We've seen, in open source reporting, Russian military equipment moving into that region.

"We'll have to verify that given what we know about Russian media performances and truth versus reality.

"These are worrying signs, of course - the clear fact that Russia has broken international law, and I just want to point correspondents to President Putin's speech itself."

Boris Johnson said shifting away from Russian oil and gas would help with energy security.

The Prime Minister said: "In the UK we have been able to reduce our dependency on Russian gas very substantially.

"Only 3% of our gas supplies now come from Russia."

Mr Johnson said the response includes granting licences for UK gas reserves but also shifting to low-carbon energy, including nuclear power.

He added: "The faster this country can be more self-reliant on our own energy, the more prosperous we will be, but also, of course, the more sustainable our energy prices will be, and that will benefit the UK consumer."

Continuing his opening speech at the Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "It's incredibly serious what's happening in Ukraine.

"Many of us were forewarning that President Putin already had an agenda - you heard that agenda in his speech last night.

"This is a sovereign state which has now had some of its land effectively annexed from it.

"This is a sovereign state, a democratic state in Europe. All of us in Europe should worry and not hesitate to take whatever action we need to to deter President Putin from undermining both Nato, but also Europe and, more importantly, our values."

Cabinet minister Sajid Javid compared the Ukraine situation to the Cuban Missile Crisis at the height of the Cold War.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I do think it's as serious a situation as that. There is still an opportunity here for President (Vladimir) Putin to step back, despite him having now chosen confrontation over dialogue. It is not to late for him to step back and bring his troops back into Russia and open dialogue.

"But we have to be realistic - clearly that does not seem his intent, certainly at this point in time, and we have to respond very significantly.

"This is a real test for the West as well."

Ukraine is not a member of Nato, but Mr Javid made clear that if Russia does carry on and invade one of the alliance's eastern states, then there will be war.

"If the territorial integrity of a single Nato member is violated then that is tantamount to declaring war on every member of Nato."

Hungarian airline Wizz Air said it will continue to operate flights between the UK and Ukraine.

It said in a statement: "Wizz Air continues to closely monitor the situation in Ukraine.

"Currently, we have not made any changes to our schedule and all of our flights to/from Ukraine continue to operate as normal.

"All passengers with booked flights to and from Ukraine are advised to regularly check their mailboxes for further information about booked flights."

Speaking about the Ukraine crisis at the Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting on Tuesday, Latvian minister Artis Pabriks said: "They (Russia) will have a small period of reconnaissance and thinking about what the West is doing and what it is planning.

"They will assess the responses, and if these responses aren't strong enough or convincing enough then the next stage will be more incidents on the de facto Ukrainian border.

"This will not be stopped by simply trying to apply for his mercy - it can only be stopped if we mean business and we are ready to engage.

"Our answer should be, 'our dear friend, we are a very peaceful alliance, but we are also ready to go into war for our freedoms. We are not afraid of you. If you want a war, you will get a war'."

The Foreign Office is increasing the support available to help Britons leave Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "The safety and security of British nationals in Ukraine is our top priority.

"All Brits should leave now via commercial routes while they are still available.

"We are bolstering our teams in the region to support British people as they leave and once they have crossed the border."

The deployment of Russian troops to two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine "amounts to renewed invasion of the country", Downing Street said.

But the UK does not currently view the move as a "full-scale invasion", according to the Prime Minister's official spokesman.

Asked for the Government's assessment of what will happen next, he told reporters: "There is no doubt that the deployment of these forces that we've seen reported in sovereign Ukrainian territory amounts to renewed invasion of the country. President Putin has sent his troops in, he's broken international law, he's repudiated the Minsk agreement.

"We believe that Russia's actions overnight could well be a precursor to a full-scale invasion. But clearly, we want to continue to pursue any diplomatic avenues that exist and we'll be speaking to other world leaders, as I say, and urging Russia to step back from this action."

The PM's spokesman went on to say: "I think what is true is that we do not see a full-scale invasion currently taking place. As I say, we have seen the deployment of these forces, which does amount to an invasion in that area. I wouldn't say necessarily it's a two-step process, but we will continue to see if there are ways to get Russia to pull back."

Downing Street said the UK would be prepared to "go further" with sanctions "should Russia choose to proceed with further aggression" towards Ukraine.

Asked if it was time for a "full panoply" of sanctions, or if there was still time for a "graduated approach", Boris Johnson's official spokesman said: "I'm not going to get into full details of what the Prime Minister will rightly set out to the House.

"He said this morning this would be the first barrage of sanctions, which gives you... an idea of what we will be setting out, and obviously we stand ready to go further should Russia choose to proceed with further aggression."

The Foreign Office is sending "rapid deployment teams" to countries neighbouring Ukraine to assist British nationals who cross over the border, Downing Street said.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said teams were being deployed to Poland, Moldova, Lithuania and Slovakia to provide consular support.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman told reporters: "This morning the Foreign Office has summoned the Russian ambassador. The meeting is expected to be taking place about now."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russia's ambassador Andrei Kelin had been summoned "to explain Russia's violation of international law and disregard of Ukraine's sovereignty".

"We are imposing severe sanctions in response," she added.

Mr Kelin was meeting the senior official at the Foreign Office, permanent under-secretary Sir Philip Barton.

Downing Street said the Prime Minister believes it is right to "snip the feed of Nord Stream from our bloodstream".

It comes after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz took the significant step of blocking the certification of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline that would have supplied gas directly from Russia to Germany.

Asked if Boris Johnson was pleased by the move, his official spokesman said: "Yes. I mean, we've seen what the Germans have said on this. And I think, you know, this has been something that the Prime Minister has been calling for for some time, and indeed again this morning - that Europe has to wean itself off Russian hydrocarbons.

"It's a point we've made consistently with regards to Nord Stream 2. As the Prime Minister said, it's right that we snip the feed of Nord Stream from our bloodstream."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of having "flagrantly violated" the Minsk peace agreements by recognising the "supposed independence" of two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine, telling MPs: "In a single inflammatory speech, he denied that Ukraine had any tradition of genuine statehood, claimed that it posed a direct threat to the security of Russia and hurled numerous other false accusations and aspersions."

Mr Johnson said Russian tanks and armed personnel carriers have "since been spotted" in the breakaway regions, adding: "The House should be in no doubt that the deployment of these forces in sovereign Ukrainian territory amounts to a renewed invasion of that country.

"And by denying Ukraine's legitimacy as a state and presenting its very existence as a mortal threat to Russia, Putin is establishing the pretext for a full-scale offensive."

Boris Johnson told MPs: "I think honourable members will struggle to understand or to contemplate how in the year 2022 a national leader might calmly and deliberately plot the destruction of a peaceful neighbour.

"Yet the evidence of his own words suggest that is exactly what President Putin is doing.

"When I said on Saturday that his scheme to subvert and invade Ukraine was already in motion before our eyes, the events of the last 24 hours have sadly shown this to be true.

"We must now brace ourselves for the next possible stages of Putin's plan.

"The violent subversion of areas of eastern Ukraine by Russian operatives and their hirelings followed by a general offensive by the nearly 200,000 Russian troops gathered on the frontiers at peak readiness to attack."

Boris Johnson told MPs: "If the worst happens then a European nation of 44 million men, women and children would become the target of a full-scale war of aggression waged without a shred of justification for the absurd and even mystical reasons that Putin described last night."

In response to President Putin's military action in Ukraine, the Prime Minister told MPs: "Now the UK and our allies will begin to impose the sanctions on Russia that we have already prepared using the new and unprecedent powers granted by this House to sanction Russian individuals and entities of strategic importance to the Kremlin."

Those being sanctioned included five Russian banks and three "very high net worth" individuals.

Boris Johnson added: "Any assets they hold in the UK will be frozen, the individuals concerned will be banned from travelling here and we will prohibit all UK individuals and entities from having any dealings with them.

"This the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do and we hold further sanctions at readiness to be deployed."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the resolve of the UK to defend Nato allies is "absolute" and "immovable".

He told MPs: "Let me emphasise what I believe unites every member of this House with equal determination: the resolve of the United Kingdom to defend our Nato allies is absolute and immovable.

"We've already doubled the size of our deployment in Estonia, where the British Army leads Nato's battle group, and when I met President Levits of Latvia, Prime Minister Kallas of Estonia in Munich on Saturday I told them that we will be willing to send more British forces to help protect our allies if Nato makes such a request.

"We cannot tell what will happen in the days ahead, but we should steel ourselves for a protracted crisis.

"The United Kingdom will meet this challenge side by side with our allies, determined that we will not allow Putin to drag our continent back into a Hobbesian state of nature."

The UK will "not give up" on a diplomatic solution to tension in Ukraine, the Prime Minister said as he announced new sanctions against Russia.

Boris Johnson said: "I will tell the House we will not give up. We will continue to seek a diplomatic solution until the last possible moment.

"But we have to face the possibility that none of our messages has been heeded and that Putin is implacably determined to go further in subjugating and tormenting Ukraine.

"It is because we suspect this much that the UK and our allies repeatedly sounded the alarm about possible new invasions and we disclosed much of what we knew about Russia's military build-up."

Boris Johnson said it is "precisely because the stakes are so high that Putin's venture in Ukraine must fail, must ultimately fail and must be seen to fail".

The Prime Minister added: "That will require the perseverance and the unity and the resolve of the entire western alliance and Britain, the UK, will do everything possible to ensure that that unity is maintained.

"And now, our thoughts should turn to our valued Ukrainian friends, who threatened no one, who asked for nothing except to live in peace and freedom.

"We will keep faith with them in the critical days that lie ahead. And whatever happens, Britain will not waver in our resolve."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said: "We know Putin's playbook. He seeks division. We must stay united."

He told the House of Commons: "Yesterday was a dark day for Europe.

"We must all stand firm in our support for Ukraine. We support the freedom of her people and their right to determine their own future without the gun of an imperialist held to their head.

"There can be no excuses for Russia's actions. There is no justification for this aggression."

He said President Vladimir Putin fears democracy and knows that, given a choice, people will not choose to live under the rule of an "erratic and violent authoritarian".

Sir Keir added: "So we must remain united and true to our values across this House and with our Nato allies. We must show Putin that we will not be divided."

Boris Johnson insisted there is "no chance" of holding football tournaments in a Russia that "invades sovereign countries".

With St Petersburg due to host this season's Uefa Champions League Final, the Prime Minister told MPs: "It's absolutely vital in this critical moment that President Putin understands that what he is doing is going to be a disaster for Russia.

"And it is clear from the response of the world to what he has done already in Donbas that he is going to end up with a Russia that is poorer as a result of the sanctions that the world will implement.

"A Russia that is more isolated, a Russia that has pariah status - no chance of holding football tournaments in a Russia that invades sovereign countries.

"A Russia that is engaged in a bloody and debilitating conflict with a fellow Slav country. What an appalling result for President Putin.

"I hope that he steps back from the brink and does not conduct a full invasion."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer welcomed the sanctions announced by Boris Johnson and the collective international response, but said "we must be prepared to go further".

Sir Keir said he understands the tactic of holding back sanctions to try to deter an invasion of the rest of Ukraine, "but a threshold has already been breached".

He said a sovereign nation "has been invaded in a war of aggression", and "if we do not respond with the full set of sanctions now Putin will once again take away the message that the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs".

He said he would work with the Prime Minister and international allies "to ensure that more sanctions are introduced".

He said Russia should be excluded from financial mechanisms like Swift, trading in Russian sovereign debt should be banned, Russia Today should be prevented from "broadcasting its propaganda around the world", and Nord Stream 2 should be cancelled.

Boris Johnson suggested the UK will consider offering further military support to Ukraine.

He told the Commons: "The UK will continue to offer support to our Ukrainian friends.

"I do think it's been right for us to be out in front in offering military assistance, defensive military assistance to the Ukrainians. I think that has been the right thing to do.

"I spoke last night to President Zelensky, who made further requests, and we will consider them - we're doing everything we can to offer support in the time that we have and we will do that."

Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves tweeted: "Labour stands in solidarity with the Ukrainian people who have shown resilience throughout Putin's aggression.

"This too must be a turning point and mark an end to the UK being a soft touch on oligarchs and illicit finance."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford gave his backing to the sanctions imposed on Russia and said his party stood united with the UK Government.

Mr Blackford added: "We stand with the Ukrainian people who are now under us all. A European country, an ally, is under attack.

"We should be very clear about what is now happening. This is an illegal Russian occupation of Ukraine just as it was in Crimea.

"Russia has effectively annexed another two Ukrainian regions in a blatant breach of international law. This effectively ends the Minsk process.

"It is a further violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.

"No one should even repeat the Russian lie that this is about peacekeeping. This is warmongering, plain and simple."

Conservative former prime minister Theresa May said the world was in the "gravest of times" which shows "we can never take our eyes off Russia".

Mrs May told the Commons: "While the focus today is rightly on protecting Ukrainian independence and territorial integrity, what lies behind this is a wider worldwide trend of authoritarian states trying to impose their way of thinking on others.

"And that the battle in which we must now engage is nothing more or less than the defence of democracy itself."

Boris Johnson said Mrs May was "entirely right", adding: "That is what's at stake and what happens in Ukraine now is being watched around the world, and the echoes will be heard in Taiwan, in east Asia and throughout the world."

In a joint statement, the 10 defence ministers of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) said: "We have reviewed the progress we have made in the development of the JEF as an agile, capable and ready force, and today agreed to undertake a series of integrated military activities across our part of northern Europe - at sea, on land and in the air.

"For example, we will shortly conduct an exercise demonstrating JEF nations' freedom of movement in the Baltic Sea.

"These and subsequent activities will remain preventative and proportionate.

"In acting together, we shall demonstrate the JEF's solidarity, capability and resolve to stand together for security and stability in our region."

The BBC Russian service should receive more funding so Russian people can "hear the truth" about what is happening in Ukraine, the Prime Minister has heard.

In the Commons, Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Tom Tugendhat asked: "May I ask, as we are talking about sanctions today and rightly so, will he commit to a foreign agents registration act?

"We have seen the action of the insidious work of the United Front for China and indeed of different outfits for Russia to undermine our democracy and threaten our way of life.

"Would he please bring in that act? And while he is doing it will he finance much more the Russian service of the BBC so that the Russian people can hear the truth and not the lies that are being spread by their own government?"

The Prime Minister replied: "I think the Russian service of the BBC has done an invaluable job and I think it is very important that it should continue to be financed.

"On his proposal for a foreign agent registration law, we are indeed considering what more we can to do counter threats to this country from within."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy tweeted: "We welcome the sanctions announced today, but we should go further.

"We need to impose a full set of sanctions now. If we do not, Putin will once again take away the message that the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said "we must stand ready with more military support for Ukraine to defend itself and we must stand ready to do more to reassure and reinforce Nato allies in eastern Europe".

Sir Keir said "we must also get our own house in order", adding "we have failed to stop the flow of illicit Russian finance into Britain" and that "Russian money has been allowed to influence our politics".

"We have to admit that mistakes have been made," he said, adding "this must be a turning point, an end to oligarch impunity".

He said Companies House must not provide "easy cover" for shell companies, and that anti-money laundering laws must be enforced, "we need to crack down on spies", and "we have to make sure money isn't pouring into UK politics from abroad".

He also asked what international efforts were going on to pursue diplomacy, saying "even at this late hour we must pursue diplomatic routes to prevent further conflict".

Sir Keir offered the support of the opposition to "do the right thing" and said President Putin "believes the benefits of aggression outweigh the consequences, so we must take a stand".

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said Vladimir Putin should not be allowed to "exploit" events like the Champions League final to legitimise the invasion of Ukraine.

"I have serious concerns about the sporting events due to be held in Russia, such as the Champions League final, and will discuss with the relevant governing bodies," she said.

"We won't allow President Putin to exploit events on the world stage to legitimise his illegal invasion of Ukraine."

Ukraine will have to be given the "means to defend itself" from future aggression or some "sort of security guarantee", Conservative former cabinet minister Liam Fox has said.

The MP for North Somerset told the House of Commons: "Can I say to my right honourable friend, sanctions can only achieve so much when dealing with an undemocratic state and someone like Putin. What we're witnessing is the real-time cannibalisation of a European democratic state bite by bite.

"And ultimately, we will have to ensure that either Ukraine is given the means to defend itself from future aggression or give some sort of security guarantee, or we will find Russian troops on the borders of Poland, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary, which would be an absolute failure of western policy."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson replied: "He's completely right in the sense that we will have to dig in for the long term to support Ukraine in every way that we can, economically, diplomatically, by the provision of military support, in the way that we are already."

Julian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee, called on the Prime Minister to "accept 3% of GDP on defence as a suitable future benchmark".

He asked: "Does (he) accept that too many Nato governments and political parties have accepted energy dependence on Putin and financial dependence on dodgy donations from Russian oligarchs?

"Given that we spent between 4.5 and 5% of GDP on defence throughout the 1980s until the end of the Cold War, will he now accept 3% of GDP on defence as a suitable future benchmark?"

Boris Johnson replied: "Completely right to say that we have failed to wean ourselves off dependence on Russian hydrocarbons since 2014, I think that's been a tragic mistake by European countries.

"In the UK we're in the fortunate position of only having 3% of our gas coming from Russia, but other European countries have learned that they have much more to do.

"By the way, I salute the decision of the German Chancellor Olaf Scholz to cancel Nord Stream 2. I think it's a brave step by Olaf and the right thing to do.

"On his point about defence spending, actually we're up at 2.4% now of GDP, I think one of the very highest in Nato, and we are the second biggest contributor, second biggest military power, in Nato already."

The UK should lead a "new European front against authoritarianism and autocracy" following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a Ukrainian MP has said.

Dmytro Natalukha, chairman of the Ukrainian parliament's economic affairs committee, told a think tank event on Tuesday that the UK was Ukraine's "boldest" ally.

Speaking from Kyiv to an event hosted by the London-based Council on Geostrategy, Mr Natalukha said: "I think that it's time for London to keep up the absolutely squashed European leadership and to become a new leader in Europe and build up a new European front against authoritarianism and autocracy.

"There is a vacuum of power, a vacuum of leadership, in the European continent. That vacuum needs to be filled and I think this potential alliance of London, Kyiv and Warsaw is a very great step towards filling that vacuum."

Speaking at a press conference on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "First of all Russia has already invaded Ukraine - they did it in 2014.

"They occupied illegally Crimea, Donbas, and this is a further invasion of that sovereign territory.

"No-one recognises the legitimacy of the occupation and annexation of Crimea - not even the Chinese have recognised that to date.

"We see this next step into Donbas - the recognition of these republics - not only against international law, but basically breaches, or trashes, of the Minsk Agreements, making it very hard to see a resolution in that space."

Russia's ambassador to the UK was told his country would "pay the price for its actions" after he was summoned to the Foreign Office.

Andrei Kelin was called to meet the Foreign Office's senior civil servant, Sir Philip Barton, on the orders of Liz Truss.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "The UK has urged Russia to explain its recognition of the so-called Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic and the movement of military forces into Ukraine.

"We have summoned the ambassador today to stress that such actions are a violation of international law.

"The UK reiterates its unshakeable commitment to the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine, and insists that Russia immediately withdraw all of its military forces.

"We made clear to the Russian ambassador that Russia would pay the price for its actions through further sanctions if it did not withdraw its troops."

Boris Johnson said "we should not allow our indignation, our rage, at what is happening in Ukraine to spill over into casual Russophobia".

Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi said in the Commons: "I am glad that the Prime Minister is talking tough and taking a strong stand against continued Russian aggression and imperialism, but when will he himself stop playing tennis with Russian oligarchs in exchange for money for the Conservative Party?"

The MP for Slough asked when the Prime Minister will fully implement the recommendations of the Russia report.

Mr Johnson responded by saying the Government is "way out in front of" European partners in what it is doing to implement sanctions on Russian entities.

He said: "Yes, it is absolutely vital that nobody should contribute to a political party in this country unless they are a UK national. And that is something that this Government insists upon.

"But what I don't think we should see, if I may just respectfully say - and I've just been listening to some of the contributions this morning - we should not allow our indignation, our rage, at what is happening in Ukraine to spill over into casual Russophobia.

"I don't want to see us discriminating against Russians as a people or simply on the basis of their nationality."

The way the West responds to Russian troops entering Ukraine will dictate what happens with China and Taiwan, Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith has said.

Sir Iain told MPs: "Should it not be now - and I commend what he has done so far - but should it not be that we need to hit them if we are going to hit them with sanctions hard and hit them now?

"They need to feel the pain of the first part of this decision. The second thing is, what is the ultimatum to them now? If they move further, are we going to take further action?

"And I simply say right now, we are facing the growth of the axis of totalitarian states. China will watch this and look at Taiwan, how we behave now and what we do as an alliance will dictate what happens in the far east."

Boris Johnson replied: "We are hitting them hard now and we will hit them harder in the future with every day that goes by which they violate the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine, we will continue to punish Russia and, in the end, I don't believe that President Putin has thought this through and I do think that he will fail."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace continued: "We have a range of sanctions, we've made them public - we put them before Parliament a few weeks ago.

"We have chosen to use some of those sanctions - that doesn't mean to say we won't use more.

"We are prepared with a whole raft of sanctions.

"We also know that the most important message to send to President Putin is that we are completely unified across Nato, the EU and the US and the UK.

"We must do all of these things in lockstep - that's what we're doing."

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey urged the Prime Minister to "go further".

He said: "Freeze and begin seizing the assets of every single one of Putin's cronies in the UK and then expel these oligarchs from our country as part of a much stronger sanctions regime.

"Second, recognise the existential threat posed by Putin to our Nato allies by immediately cancelling (the Prime Minister's) own decision, his misguided decision, to cut our armed forces by 10,000 troops, and third, no longer tolerate international sporting or cultural events hosted in Russia.

"Can I confirm what I think he implied... that he will push for this year's Champions League final to be moved from St Petersburg? President Putin has made a terrible decision, will the Prime Minister make sure he pays a terrible price?"

Boris Johnson replied: "Yes... we are indeed cracking down on ill-gotten gains in London and on the cronies of Vladimir Putin.

"On his point about sporting events... I think it inconceivable that major international football tournaments can take place in Russia after, as I say, the invasion of a sovereign country."

The Prime Minister faced pressure from Labour and Tory backbenchers to go further with sanctions, as Russia had "already committed the crimes that deserve the most punishment".

Labour former minister Hilary Benn said: "The Prime Minister said... 'there is a lot more that we are going to do in the event of an invasion'. The Prime Minister has just told the House that he regards what happened overnight as a 'renewed invasion of Ukraine'. If that is the Government's view then why is he waiting before imposing full sanctions on Russia now?"

Boris Johnson replied: "I have been very clear that what we have wanted to do is have the biggest possible package of sanctions ready to go in the event of the Russians crossing into more sovereign Ukrainian territory. What we will also do is make sure that the sanctions that we implement are done in concert with our allies. That is what we are doing."

Conservative MP Bernard Jenkin (Harwich) said: "President Putin has already achieved so much of what he has set out to achieve and he may have no intention of launching a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, but he has already committed the crimes that deserve the most punishment from the free world.

"What are we going to do to continue to strengthen Nato, to unify Nato, which is exactly, of course, what he didn't want his policy to achieve?"

Mr Johnson said: "What he has succeeded in doing is greatly to unify Nato and to produce a much bigger commitment not just by the UK but by other European powers to reinforce Nato's eastern frontier."

Vladimir Putin could turn Russia into a "pariah state", Boris Johnson has warned.

In the Commons, the Labour MP for Knowsley, Sir George Howarth, said: "For over a decade Russia has been mounting cyber attacks on our critical national infrastructure and commercial infrastructure. For over a decade and there were no consequences.

"For over a decade Russia has been swirling dirty money around the City of London with no consequences.

"In order for Vladimir Putin to understand that he has now gone too far, he needs to be certain that if sanctions and diplomatic means don't succeed, then there will be consequences. Can the Prime Minister agree with me that those consequences need to be still on the table and Vladimir Putin needs to understand that they will be used?"

Boris Johnson replied: "We need to make it absolutely clear to Russia that as a result of this venture, this ill-conceived and disastrous venture in Ukraine, his country will end up, as I have said, poorer, more encircled by Nato, and engaged in a disastrous conflict with fellow Slavs - and a pariah state.

"That is what President Putin is willing on his people, a pariah state."

The Prime Minister said "it's great that the German Chancellor also now sees the importance" of defence spending, adding he had been campaigning for a long time for Germany "to shoulder more of the defence burden" in Europe and "that's a good thing".

He was responding in the Commons to Conservative former defence minister Johnny Mercer, who welcomed the sanctions but said: "We can't continue to consistently relearn the lessons of the past when it comes to drawing a line and being willing to hold that line military, if so."

The MP for Plymouth Moor View acknowledged defence spending has risen, but said the funding must be tailored to meet the threat, adding: "As the German Chancellor has mentioned this morning, that threat is changing."

He asked the Prime Minister to "keep an eye on that defence spending to make sure that if we are asked we can hold a line and we could lead Nato in the way that I know he wants to".

Boris Johnson said: "We have seen massive increases in our defence spending but we want to make sure that it is targeted on things like tackling cyber, disinformation, all the modern forms of warfare in which Putin also specialises."

Mr Johnson also said the threat "is not just to Europe, the threat from an aggressive and expansionist Russian agenda is everywhere, including in Africa".

Conservative former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt pressed the Prime Minister to increase defence spending and go further on sanctions.

Mr Hunt said he "strongly" supported the "robust" approach taken by the UK Government, adding: "But Putin will have predicted and discounted western sanctions long ago, so does he agree that if we are not to be behind in the diplomatic chess game, we need to do some things that he is not expecting?

"Firstly, a sustained increase in western defence capability and spend, and secondly, a sustained reduction in the ability of the Russian state to finance its own armed forces with economic and financial sanctions that don't last just until the next government decides to have a reset but, if necessary, for as long as this dangerous man remains president of Russia?"

Boris Johnson highlighted increased defence spending in the UK, adding in the Commons: "We will sustain that increase in defence spending and he's absolutely right about the financing of Putin's armed forces.

"The tragedy is that they've been financed from the proceeds of the sale of Russian oil and gas to western European nations and that is what's got to end."

Tobias Ellwood, Conservative chairman of the Defence Committee, said Nato "must not be benched".

He said: "Sanctions alone will not be enough, indeed untargeted sanctions may play into Putin's plan to pivot Russia ever closer to China.

"So would the Prime Minister agree Nato must not be benched?

"It was created to uphold European security and we must now consider how we utilise our formidable hard power deterrence in responding to Ukraine's calls for further help, not excluding the formation of a potential no-fly zone."

Boris Johnson replied: "What Nato is not doing and no Nato country is currently considering is sending combat troops to Ukraine, and he will understand the reasons for that, but that does not preclude support by Nato countries for Ukraine and including military support."

The Prime Minister said in addition to military assistance for eastern European allies, "we also need to share technology, particularly in renewables, to allow them to find a different future" and rely less on Russian energy.

He was responding in the Commons to Conservative former business secretary Andrea Leadsom, who asked for assurance that the Prime Minister was already considering what more could be done to protect allies in eastern Europe "from the inevitable consequences of the risky position we find ourselves in, in the dead of winter, with so much dependence on Russian gas".

Boris Johnson also said: "We need to work together to wean ourselves off, to end the dependency on Russian gas."

Conservative former minister Mark Harper asked for assurances that Boris Johnson will implement "further and stronger measures even if President Putin does no more".

Mr Johnson replied: "I think it's inevitable, given what is happening in Ukraine and on the borders of Ukraine, that we will be coming forward with a much bigger package of sanctions.

"What you have today is an opening barrage that we're doing in common with our friends and allies."

Conservative MP John Baron (Basildon and Billericay) told Mr Johnson: "I hope he takes away from this exchange today the strong cross-party support for tougher sanctions now, because that is what is needed."

He also asked the Prime Minister to consider a "substantial and sustained increase" in defence spending to ensure peace and stability.

Addressing reporters at the Joint Expeditionary Force meeting, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "Ukraine matters because many other countries are watching.

"Our resolve has been tested, as has the ambitions of President Putin's legacy.

"President Putin wants a legacy, it's our duty to make sure he gets a legacy, but not the one he is planning."

Asked if it was too late for diplomacy, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "It's never too late for diplomacy.

"We have spent weeks trying across Europe. President Macron has tried, the Chancellor of Germany has tried, the Prime Minister... has tried.

"He has not been short of people trying to engage both directly with him, and indeed, many of us in this room have tried to engage with a number of our counterparts.

"So it is never too late, but as I've always said, we'll take them at their word and judge them by their actions."

Asked if Vladimir Putin was planning further invasions in eastern Europe, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "The actions we've seen today and last night are absolutely according to his playbook.

"It's according to what he wrote in July last year, and if you want to know what his next intentions are, I recommend you listen to his latest speech, that he made last night, full of huge inaccuracies, one of which was that Ukraine is not a proper state.

"I should remind people, Ukraine has been separate to Russia as a nation longer than it has been part of Russia, that is a simple fact of history.

"He should look at his history books, and not selectively pick dates that suit his narrative."

Addressing reporters at the meeting of the Joint Expeditionary Force in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "First of all we've doubled from battlegroup to two battlegroups and a brigade headquarters into Estonia.

"We've made available 1,000 troops on readiness - they haven't been deployed.

"A lot of that will be done through the Supreme Allied Commander in Nato to make it available to him should he wish to place them in a place that will counter any threat.

"And we're absolutely open to doing even more if required because we need to send that clear signal to President (Vladimir) Putin.

"As I have warned and warned the Kremlin for weeks and months that as we knew in 2014 he gets the opposite of what he wants.

"He will get more forces on his borders, but just as he did in 2014, he will no doubt get more spending on defence from Nato to things that strategically would be the opposite of what he should be potentially wanting to achieve."

Sanctions on five Russian banks and three individuals announced on Tuesday are "impressive", Conservative MP Jonathan Djanogly has said.

Mr Djanogly, who is vice-chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Ukraine, told a think tank event that the West could return Russia "to the economic dark ages" if it chose to do so, but that this would require coordinated action.

He said it was "impressive" that the Prime Minister had announced sanctions so soon after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, saying: "In the past, he would not have done that. He would have come to the dispatch box and said we would be working with our European allies."

He added that ministers had given him the feeling that they were "going to take economic sanctions very seriously" and that there were "signs in recent days of the EU pulling together".

Continuing to speak to reporters in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "Russia's malign activity is global. Only a few days ago, the French announced a withdrawal from Mali because of the presence and establishment of Wagner, the Russian mercenary group, in that country, joining up with the Malian Government.

"Russia is practising significant amounts of intimidation of the Black Sea, Russia is deploying significant amount of submarines and others into the Atlantic, and indeed further abroad.

"Only last year they went to Hawaii with a significant number of ships which hadn't been seen since the Cold War.

"I think what is clear here is that the president has decided he wants to demonstrate a new Russia, in his view, a Russia with new invested arms and equipment.

"We've seen satellite launches - in fact we've seen the destruction of a satellite that even upset the Chinese not so long ago because of the potential damage it can inflict, and I think that's what we should all be concerned about.

"A man who doesn't follow international law, a man who is now has a very large army on the doorstep of a sovereign state and seems to not even worry that the false flags and the fake news we are watching is so obvious, it is sadly almost comical."

Asked why Russia has not been handed the hardest and harshest sanctions yet, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "We already have significant sanctions against both individuals and other entities since 2014.

"Secondly the sanctions we have announced today, including against five Russian banks, are significantly harsh.

"There are still more sanctions in the tank, and the main thing is that we do all this together.

"Sometimes that means we have to move at slightly different paces, but fundamentally we are all following a path, both the United Kingdom, the EU, the United States, that will lead to sanctions being ratcheted up and over time I think that is really important that we do it in step.

"If we don't then I think President (Vladimir) Putin would absolutely try to exploit that to his benefit and that's why we will do this today at the level we are.

"On top of that, I think there's a plan to try and have a leaders' meeting to discuss the next stages of Nato."

President Vladimir Putin is in an "irrational frame of mind" and may not respond logically to sanctions, the Prime Minister has warned.

Labour MP for Chester Christian Matheson said: "I welcome the Prime Minister's statement but look, Russia is a mafia sate. Putin is the godfather, the 'capo di tutti i capi', and he won't change until his 'capos' and his under bosses force him to change, and they won't do that until we pull the financial rug from under their feet. We are in a unique position to do it."

Boris Johnson replied: "We are in a position to impose very considerable economic costs on Putin. The question is whether he is going to care enough about it because he is clearly in an illogical and irrational frame of mind."

Elsewhere, Conservative MP Nickie Aiken (Cities of Westminster and London) said the "children of those Russians connected to the Kremlin who may be in schools in this country should be perhaps sent home to Russia and not be allowed to benefit from education within this country".

The Prime Minister replied: "I think when it comes to children, maybe I think I am not quite there. I think that the sins of the fathers or indeed the mothers should not be visited on their children, in my opinion."

It is "inevitable" that there will be more sanctions against Russia, Boris Johnson has said.

The Prime Minister's comments come as Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokeswoman Layla Moran pressed him on what the trigger for further sanctions will be.

She said: "Five banks, three of Putin's cronies but two of which have already been sanctioned by the US. This isn't us working in concert, this is us already behind. I hear what the Prime Minister has said about more sanctions are to come. Can he be clear with us then, what is the trigger?"

Mr Johnson said: "I think it is inevitable that there will be more sanctions to come because I am afraid I think it's inevitable that Vladimir Putin is going to continue with his flagrant violation of international law. What we are doing today is the first barrage that we are orchestrating in concert with our friends and partners, keeping something in reserve because there must still be the possibility that we can avert an hideous outbreak of bloodshed in Ukraine."

Meanwhile, Conservative MP John Howell (Henley), who is the leader of the UK delegation to the Council of Europe, told the Commons he will be calling later today for "the suspension of Russia from the Council of Europe" and asked for the Prime Minister's support.

Mr Johnson replied: "I wholeheartedly support what he just said."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK will go further on sanctions against Russia if it "does not pull back from the brink" in Ukraine.

In a statement, she said: "This first wave of sanctions will hit oligarchs and banks close to the Kremlin. It sends a clear message that the UK will use our economic heft to inflict pain on Russia and degrade their strategic interests.

"And we are prepared to go much further if Russia does not pull back from the brink. We will curtail the ability of the Russian state and Russian companies to raise funds in our markets, prohibit a range of high tech exports, and further isolate Russian banks from the global economy.

"These will be surgically targeted sanctions that will hit Russia hard."

There could be a spike in gas and oil prices as a consequence of "Putin's venture", Boris Johnson has said.

Conservative former minister Robert Halfon told MPs: "Can I just ask my right honourable friend, what assessment have the Government made of the impact from the war on energy prices, of oil prices and the subsequent impact on people, on people at home, and what measures can the Government mitigate those factors, which, as we know, the war is likely to increase the cost of living for ordinary folk across the country?"

Mr Johnson replied: "He is quite right that one of the risks of Putin's venture is that there could be a spike in gas prices, in oil prices...

"The Government will do everything we can to mitigate it and help the people in this country but it's one of the reasons why the whole of Western Europe has got to end their dependence on Russian oil and gas."

Downing Street has rejected suggestions that the sanctions announced by Britain targeting Russian oligarchs and banks would have little effect.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said the measures set out in the House of Commons would have a "real impact" on the Russian economy.

"This only beginning. This is only the first tranche of sanctions we could introduce," the spokesman said.

"The actions we have take together with our Nato allies do create a much more hostile atmosphere for individuals and for banks and will have a real impact on the economic situation in Russia.

"We believe that these are the right measures to introduce now in the light of the actions taken overnight by President (Vladimir) Putin."

Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said "every indication" is that Russia "continues to plan for a full-scale attack" on Ukraine.

But he said "it's never too late to not attack", and urged Russia to "engage in good faith in diplomatic efforts to find a political solution".

Mr Stoltenberg told a press conference in Brussels: "Every indication is that Russia continues to plan for a full scale attack on Ukraine. We see the ongoing military build up... We see that more and more of the forces are moving out of the camps and are in combat formations and ready to strike.

"And we see the ongoing provocations in Donbas and the different false flag operations where they tried to create a pretext for an attack. And then of course we saw last night that further Russian troops moved into Donbas, into parts of Donetsk and Luhansk.

"And then we have the threatening rhetoric, which was actually confirmed in the speech of President Putin yesterday.

"At the same time, it's never too late. It's never too late to not attack. And that's the reason why we continue to call on Russia to step back, to de-escalate, and to engage in good faith in diplomatic efforts to find a political solution."

President Vladimir Putin has called for the "demilitarisation" of Ukraine to end the current crisis.

Speaking at the news conference in Moscow, the Russian leader said the government in Kyiv needed to give up its hopes of joining Nato.

"This would mean that the Western leaders would not lose face," he said, speaking through an interpreter.

Mr Putin re-iterated his concerns that Ukraine could develop nuclear weapons and said "demilitarisation" was the "only objective controlling factor that we could observe and have a proper reaction to".

He added: "Even the appearance of tactical nuclear weaponry in Ukraine, for us this means a strategic threat."

Britain hopes sanctions will prevent further aggression and persuade Russian troops to withdraw and move away from the Ukrainian border, amid concerns the measures do not offer enough of a deterrence.

Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith, speaking as MPs considered the legislation that enabled the UK Government to introduce tougher sanctions, told the Commons: "The question I want to understand more clearly is are we deterring President (Vladimir) Putin from doing more or is the idea to get President Putin to step back?

"Because I'm not all together clear and therefore that means the force of the sanctions is dictated by what we're trying to do."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly replied: "Our aim is to prevent further aggression, for Russian troops to withdraw from where they have advanced and for them to move away from the Ukrainian border and remove that threat from the Ukrainian people."

Tom Tugendhat, Conservative chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, added: "The ratchet could be misinterpreted as giving a free pass at an early stage rather than drawing a clear line that needs not to be crossed."

Mr Cleverly, in his reply, said: "The pace at which we, in conjunction with our international partners, ratchet up our sanctions response is very much to not just send a message, although sending a message is important, but to actually ensure that these sanctions are meaningfully felt by the Russian leadership and those people around Vladimir Putin funding him and propping him up."

Downing Street said Boris Johnson had spoken to French President Emmanuel Macron about the "chilling developments in Ukraine last night".

In a call on Tuesday afternoon, a No 10 spokesman said: "The Prime Minister updated President Macron on the new sanctions he unveiled against Russia today, and the leaders agreed they needed to continue to work in lockstep to target Russian individuals and entities bankrolling President (Vladimir) Putin's aggressive approach.

"The Prime Minister said that President Putin's actions were a gross violation of international law, and by sending forces into eastern Ukraine he had ripped up the Budapest and Minsk agreements.

"Russia's actions don't just threaten Ukraine's sovereignty, but are a blatant attack on freedom and democracy, the leaders agreed.

"The pair reiterated that together, the UK and France were working to reinforce Europe's borders and defend European security against increasing Russian aggression.

"Both agreed to stay in close contact and speak again in the coming days."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said: "The UK Government's actions are not limited to what the Prime Minister has currently announced."

He added: "We are going to bring forward further legislation to further extend the measures available to us."

He said: "We intend to escalate these sanctions, to ratchet up these sanctions, in response to what has already happened in order to deter further aggression and in order to stimulate (Vladimir) Putin to withdraw the troops from Ukraine."

He said the changes would allow the Government "to impose sanctions on a much broader range of individuals and businesses who are or have been involved in... obtaining a benefit from, or supporting, the government of Russia" and would allow sanctions on a "huge scope of individuals and entities", adding: "Should Russian stage any further invasion into Ukraine, we will not hesitate to implement comprehensive and unprecedented additional packages of sanctions in close coordination with our allies around the world."

He added: "These measures will curtail the ability of the Russian state, Russian companies, Russian individuals, to raise funds on our markets and further isolate Russian banks. We will keep ratcheting up the pressure targeting more banks, more individuals, more companies, that are significant to the Kremlin."

He added: "Vladimir Putin has chosen a path of international isolation. The measures that my right honourable friend the Prime Minister announced today demonstrate that they will bare a cost for doing so, and if they do not step back these measures will only increase."

European Union countries have agreed unanimously to adopt a package of sanctions against Russia, the EU's foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell has said.

In a press conference, Mr Borrell said it was a "particularly dangerous moment for Europe" and Russia's actions were a "clear escalation of the Russian aggression against Ukraine".

Mr Borrell said that 351 members of the Russian State Duma who "voted (for) this violation of international law" would be sanctioned, as well as "27 individuals and entities who are playing a role in undermining or threatening Ukrainian territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence".

These included "banks that are financing Russia" and "those who waged this information war against Ukraine". He added the bloc would also "target the ability of the Russian state and government to access to our capital and financial markets and services".

He said: "We reached an agreement between the 27 member states - a unanimous agreement to adopt a package of sanctions."

He added that the package would "hurt Russia, and it will hurt a lot".

Oligarchs close to President Vladimir Putin will find it "too easy" to avoid the impact of sanctions, Labour has said.

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy told MPs his party has "major concerns" and suggestions on how the Government could "go further" on sanctions against Russia.

He said: "Firstly, concerns have been expressed to us that in the way that legislation is currently drafted, oligarchs who are close to Putin will find it too easy to avoid the impact of the measures. They may not hold a formal role in a sanctioned bank or company, but may exert significant control behind the scenes.

"The effects of this would be that some of the most influential and notorious oligarchs, oligarchs who are close to Vladimir Putin, and have purposely structured their enterprises to avoid the appearance of majority ownership and control would go untouched."

Mr Lammy insisted this is a "crucial mistake" as President Putin "couldn't care about sanctions laid against his country or the Russian people", instead, "the only sanctions he really cares about are those against the richest people close to him".

The shadow foreign secretary added: "We believe that we must go further now. Only five banks and three individuals are facing sanctions as a result of UK government's actions today. This is not big enough punishment for the blatant breach of international law that has already been made. And let us not be too slow to act and fall behind our international partners."

The first deputy chairman of the Russian State Duma's committee on international affairs said sanctions imposed on Tuesday by Boris Johnson in light of the Ukraine crisis would have "zero" effect.

Vyacheslav Nikonov told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "What would be the result of sanctions like they're introduced today by Boris Johnson? Zero, it's nothing. It's sanctioned about three oligarchs and five... small banks. You know, this is a laughable affair, of course.

"We expected something more serious, like switching from... Swift, or cancelling the (buyers) of gas and so on."

The Conservative chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee pressed the Government on why they did not go further on sanctions against Russia.

Tom Tugendhat said: "I welcome the direction that we've taken, but I find myself, I'm afraid along with many others on all sides of this House, asking why not more? Why not further?

"Because what we're doing now is we are in many ways using the actions of a hostile state in eastern Ukraine to justify something that we should have done years ago. The UK sadly has for too long been an avenue for money laundering, for despots and criminals around the world. For too long, we have seen our institutions, our City, our service sector, used to hide the games of corrupt practices abroad and indeed sadly on too many occasions of criminality."

He added: "What he (President Putin) is doing to us, to the people of these islands, is he is unpicking the values and principles that our grandparents fought for 80 years ago. He is unpicking the principle that we embedded into the Constitution of the United Nations, of the Council of Europe. He is unpicking the principle of the rule of law that the debate amongst sovereign peoples should be the way that disputes are settled in this world, and he is replacing the rule of law for the rule of force.

"Sadly, he's demonstrating that not only does it work on the ground, but it also works in the wallet. He's demonstrating that a leader can profit politically and personally from the abuses that he conducts against his own people and his neighbours."

Conservative former party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith said: "We can do, we should do and we must do more to root out the dirty money that flows through here."

He added: "I really do believe the Government has to take this many notches further and hit them very hard. Yes, with the cleaning out of some of the Augean stables in the financial services area, but secondly also we need to go on grander, more supra national sanctions, working with our allies, absolutely to cut off supplies of money, such that the Russians cannot and President Putin cannot find a way through this and they feel the pain. We must hear them squeal when we hit them with these sanctions."

Sir Iain warned: "We must move, we must move hard, we must move now and we must make them squeal, if we do not do that then we will have failed."

SNP's foreign affairs spokesman Alyn Smith said: "It's weak tea, it's not nothing, but it's not much."

He added: "This is really small beer and I cannot understand it, the UK seems to be casting about for somebody else's leadership because I really don't detect much in the actions and announcements that we've heard today."

Labour's Chris Bryant (Rhondda) said: "We've been pitiful, we've been puny, we've vacillated, we've been spineless and quite often we've looked as if we're craven because we just want Russian money."

He added: "I am angered by the naivety that I sometimes see in this country, I've seen it often in this chamber and I see it too from the Left."

He went on: "Of course I support the statutory instrument, I'm glad we're doing this, but today's sanctions the ones that have been announced today which rely on this, are wholly inadequate."

Conservative former cabinet minister Robert Jenrick said the UK should be taking action "hard now", explaining: "That is what a dictator like (Vladimir) Putin can understand.

"Deterrence by way of sanctions thus far has failed. It's probably likely to fail. It does have value, however, it does show resolve, it does inflict cost on Russia and if we're going to do that why wouldn't we do it strong now?

"I don't understand why we would be suggesting that we would be bringing forward the other measures that I know the Government is considering only in the event that Russia makes further incursions into Ukraine or further serious egregious assaults upon Ukraine or other allies within the region."

Mr Jenrick said he could see Foreign Office minister James Cleverly shaking his head at this suggestion, adding he could understand it if the Government needs further time to develop harsher measures or wants to introduce them at the same time as their allies.

He also told the Commons: "My suggestion to the Government would be to bring forward further measures as quickly as possible, preferably in concert with our allies."

Bob Seely, Conservative MP for Isle of Wight, said "it's quite clear that deterrence has failed" before adding: "I make criticism of policy over the past 10, 15 years, this is too little, too late."

Conservative MP and a former United Nations commander who led peacekeeping forces in Bosnia, Bob Stewart (Beckenham), said: "Mr (Vladimir) Putin may well have won. He may well have won because we've not reacted hard enough.

"Small banks sanctioned, but actually not real sanctions. So he'll be sitting there tonight in Moscow thinking 'I've just got to sit this one out and the gains we've got I will be able to play up extremely well to the Russian people'. We are really in dangerous ground by our weakness."

Conservative MP Jonathan Djanogly (Huntingdon) said thousands of Russians live in the UK, and many are not supportive of President Putin's regime and "many Russians here are here to escape the clutches of Putin's regime".

He said: "For those Russians here I would urge caution and due process in the way that they are treated, because just throwing them all in prison, for instance, as the UK did with all German residents in the beginning of World War Two, is not going to work, or indeed enhance our own democratic reputation.

"On the other hand, there does come a tipping point towards war when individual interests are to some degree going to be affected or subsumed by just being a citizen of the country concerned.

"It seems that these regulations are effectively preparing the ground for this to happen. I support these proposals, and feel that ultimately in the circumstances presented they are appropriate."

Liberal Democrat Layla Moran said: "While so far we may have talked the talk, I'm afraid to say today's list of sanctions were gruel. I don't think that they've done anything. I don't even think there is a line in the sand there."

The MP for Oxford West and Abingdon told the Commons she welcomed the sanctions but she wants the Government "to do so much more than it's done today".

She spoke of the need to tackle "Putin's cronies" and also used her parliamentary privilege to name 35 people she said were on a list of "key enablers" compiled by Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny and his team over a year ago.

US President Joe Biden has announced his own sanctions against Russia.

In a statement from the White House, Mr Biden said the measures were only the "first tranche" and he would "escalate sanctions if Russia escalates".

He said: "We're implementing full blocking sanctions on two large Russian financial institutions, VEB and their military bank.

"We're implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russian sovereign debt. That means we've cut off Russia's government from Western financing, it can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either."

He said: "Starting tomorrow and continuing in the days ahead we will also impose sanctions on Russia's elites and their family members. They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share in the pain as well."

Mr Biden said the US had worked with Germany in the halting of Nordstream 2, and he added: "As Russia contemplates its next move, we have our next move prepared as well. Russia will pay an even steeper price if it continues its aggression, including additional sanctions."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said sanctions will be ratcheted up because of "what has already happened" and not just in response to "what might happen in the future".

Speaking in the Commons, Mr Cleverly told MPs: "I can confidently inform the House that they are demanding of the Government something which the Government is absolutely determined to do. You are pushing at an open door."

The Foreign Office minister added: "The question that was asked is, 'are these sanctions only going to be escalated in response to further aggression?'

"I can assure this House that these sanctions will be ratcheted up because of what has already happened, not just in response to what might happen in the future. Our intention, as I say, is to prevent even further invasion of Ukraine, to have those troops that are currently in Ukraine removed and then have them returned to their own barracks once they are back in Russia."

US President Joe Biden said the US would also continue to provide "defensive assistance" to Ukraine, and he had authorised the movement of US forces to other Baltic states.

He told a press briefing: "In response to Russia's admission that it will not withdraw its forces from Belarus, I have authorised additional movements of US forces and equipment already stationed in Europe to strengthen our Baltic allies - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.

"Let me be clear, these are totally defensive moves on our part. We have no intention of fighting Russia.

"We want to send an unmistakable message though, that the United States together with our allies will defend every inch of Nato territory and abide by the commitments we made into Nato."

Joe Biden said he expected the Kremlin to start a war and that "none of us should be fooled".

The US President told reporters: "We still believe that Russia is poised to go much further in launching a massive military attack against Ukraine."

He said: "There are still well over 150,000 Russian troops surrounding Ukraine, and as I said, Russian forces remain positioned to Belarus to attack Ukraine from the north, including warplanes and offensive missile systems.

"Russia's moved troops closer to Ukraine's border with Russia.

"Russia's naval vessels are manoeuvring in the Black Sea to Ukraine's south including amphibious assault ships, missile cruisers, and submarines.

"Russia has moved supplies of blood and medical equipment into position on their border. You don't need blood unless you plan on starting a war."

(Corrected repetition, amends incorrect word in par four)

President Joe Biden has said the world has heard "the full extent of Vladimir Putin's twisted rewrite of history" but added the US is still "open to diplomacy".

Speaking at a White House briefing on the Ukraine crisis, said he had been in "constant contact" with European leaders on how to respond "in unison" to any threat from Russia.

"Yesterday the world heard clearly the full extent of Vladimir Putin's twisted rewrite of history," he said.

"Nothing in Putin's remarks indicate any interest in pursuing real dialogue in European security in the year 2022. He directly attacked Ukraine's right to exist."

However, Mr Biden added that there was still a chance to "avert the worst-case scenario" which would "bring untold suffering to millions of people".

"The United States and our allies remain open to diplomacy, if it is serious," Mr Biden said. "But when all is said and done, we're going to judge Russia by its actions, not its words, and whatever Russia does next we're ready to respond with unity, clarity and conviction."

Speaking in Parliament, former Nato secretary-general Lord Robertson of Port Ellen said he backed the Government and "the resolution of the West against this unprovoked attack on an individual nation state".

He said: "It is outrageous and we are at a very dangerous point in European history."

The Labour former defence secretary told the House of Lords: "Can I suggest to the Government that we need to do much more to answer some of the disinformation now being put out by the Russians? For example, President (Vladimir) Putin tries to pretend that he has had nothing to do with agreements regarding the sovereignty of Ukraine.

"But in 2002 Vladimir Putin signed the Rome Declaration... which said the participating states respect sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all states and their inherent right to choose the means to ensure their own security and the inviolability of borders.

"That was signed up to by Vladimir Putin 20 years ago and now he seems to pretend that Ukraine does not exist.

"Surely we need to do much more to counter some of the lies coming out. Because the battle of narratives is going to matter just as much as the battle of the military on the ground."

Tory former solicitor general and QC Lord Garnier said the imposition of sanctions by the UK against three billionaire allies of Vladimir Putin and five Russian banks over Ukraine "really isn't enough".

Speaking in the Lords, Conservative peer: "Kleptocrats like drug dealers really do not like having their money, their ill-gotten gains, removed from them.

"We have sanctioned three individuals and five banks, that really isn't enough.

"President Putin has vast sums squirreled away in the West, held by nominees. The Government must know who these nominees are and may I suggest that the Government speedily sanctions all those whom it knows to be doing President Putin's work."

Responding, Tory Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said: "The sanctions announced today are only the first tranche and we will step sanctions if Russian aggression continues."

Former head of the Foreign Office and Diplomatic Service Lord McDonald of Salford said, to be effective, sanctions imposed on Moscow "have to be international and coordinated".

He told the upper chamber: "This needs to be an international effort which usually would be coordinated through the United Nations. The security council clearly is not available as the Russians have a veto.

"In what international forum will the Government coordinate the necessary sanctions effort?"

Tory Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said the Government had been working with allies through Nato, the UN and G7 as well as having bilateral meetings.

"We are working internationally and we are coordinating our response with our allies and partners," she said.

Former Navy chief Lord West of Spithead has said the UK and US should be preparing to make Vladimir Putin's "eyes water" over Ukraine, arguing the allies had superior cyber capability in the GCHQ and the National Security Agency.

The Labour peer, a member of Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee, said: "We can run rings around the Russians if we really want to. We should be getting ready to do that... to really make his eyes water so he knows what he's done."

He told the Lords: "We mustn't delude ourselves, Russia has invaded Ukraine."

Referring to the Russian leader, Lord West said: "He's made a calculation the pain isn't that much and I have to say at the moment I would rather agree with him. He's not getting that much pain.

He added: "Since 2010 we have reduced our military by a third. That has not gone unnoticed."

Independent crossbench peer Lord Skidelsky, who until last month was a director of oil refining firm Russneft, said the lack of understanding of Russia's position was "absolutely appalling".

He told the Lords: "Will the Government urgently and imaginatively search for a diplomatic agreement on the Ukraine problem?

"The lack of imagination and lack of understanding of Russia's position is absolutely appalling in my view and very depressing.

"The atmosphere of the House reminds me very, very much of 2003 prior to the invasion of Iraq."

But disagreeing, Conservative Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said: "Russia has been falsely accusing Russia of provocation and nothing could be further from the truth.

"Nato has always been a defensive alliance and poses no threat to Russia.

"Nato allies remain committed to a dual track approach, strong deterrents and defence combined with meaningful dialogue, but Russia has to stop its aggression towards Ukraine."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Britain will "use every lever at our disposal to stop (Vladimir Putin) in his tracks".

Writing in The Times, Ms Truss said: "Time after time, we and our allies have said that any further invasion would have severe consequences. Now Russia has chosen to abandon diplomacy, we have a moral duty to stand with Ukraine and demonstrate that we mean what we say.

"We have put in place our toughest sanctions regime against Russia. Nothing is off the table."

Ms Truss said she had held a call with G7 allies to "agree the next package".

"We are looking at sanctioning members of the Russian Duma and Federation Council. And we will extend the territorial sanctions imposed on Crimea to the separatist-controlled territories in the Donbas," she said.

"We have a long list of those complicit in the actions of the Russian leadership. Should Russia refuse to pull back its troops we can keep turning up the heat, targeting more banks, elites and companies of significance."

She added: "In time, even those close to President Putin will come to see his decisions this week as a self-inflicted wound."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220222ei2m000jh


Canada announces first round of economic sanctions on Russia over Ukraine crisis and will send additional troops to Eastern Europe
LETA
616 字
2022 年 2 月 23 日 08:37 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
OTTAWA/RIGA, Feb 23 (LETA--REUTERS/CP24) - Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Tuesday announced a first round of economic sanctions on Russia a day after Moscow recognized the Ukraine separatist regions of Donetsk and Luhansk as independent.

The United States, the European Union, Germany and Britain also announced ways they will punish Russia financially as they fear a further incursion is to come, a move Moscow has consistently denied for months.

The Russian-backed separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk broke away from Ukrainian government control in 2014 and proclaimed themselves independent "people's republics" after a pro-Moscow Ukrainian president was ousted in Kyiv.

Trudeau said his government will ban Canadians from all financial dealings with the so-called "independent states" of Luhansk and Donetsk. Canada will also ban Canadians from engaging in purchases of Russian sovereign debt, he added.

The Canadian prime minister said his government will sanction members of the Russian parliament who voted for the decision to recognize Donetsk and Luhansk as independent.

Canada will apply additional sanctions on two state-backed Russian banks and prevent any financial dealings with them, Trudeau said.

Trudeau also said he was authorizing additional troops to the region.

"So today, I am also authorizing the deployment of up to 460 members of the Canadian Armed Forces to Operation Reassurance. This involves more troops to Latvia, as well as the deployment of an additional frigate and maritime patrol aircraft," he said.

Canada is sending an additional 460 troops to reinforce the NATO military alliance in eastern Europe, Trudeau said. That includes a 100-soldier artillery unit to Latvia, which will join 540 other Armed Forces members leading a NATO battlegroup in the Baltic state.

A Canadian frigate, the HMCS Halifax, and a CP-140 Aurora patrol plane are also being deployed to eastern Europe, with all the promised forces expected in theatre by the end of March.

The prime minister said the measures are intended to “reinforce our commitment to NATO and promote peace and security in the region.”

While the additional Canadian forces will no doubt be welcome by Latvia and NATO, which had been hoping for reinforcements for the past few weeks, Trudeau sidestepped a question about why the government did not announce them sooner.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered Russian troops into eastern Ukraine, saying they were there to "keep the peace." Trudeau described the step as "a clear incursion of Ukraine’s sovereignty."

"Make no mistake: this is a further invasion of a sovereign state and it is absolutely unacceptable," he said, adding it was "not too late" for Russia to seek a diplomatic resolution.

Meanwhile, Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins, commenting on the Canadian decision to Latvian Television this morning, said that Latvia already is in a strong position.

"Let's remember that our own armed forces and home guards are very capable, professional, well-equipped, with good armaments that are still improving. Then we have NATO soldiers from ten different countries with us on a daily basis. Now the Americans are coming to the exercises and they announced that they too will be strengthening their presence here, as well as Canada, which is leading the NATO battalion here in Latvia," said Karins.

According to him, Latvia's position is becoming increasingly secure. "Where is the significance? The significance is that America, Canada, Britain, Germany and everyone else - Spain, Italy - say that the Baltic is also their territory," the head of government commented, adding that these soldiers have been given the mandate to participate in armed conflict if necessary.

46444131333044312D434336442D3444

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220223ei2n000rt


News; Domestic
Ukraine Urges Its Citizens to Leave Russia; Right-Wing Lawyer Fights to Keep About 130 Emails from January 6 Panel; U.N. Secretary- General Says, Our World is Facing a Moment of Peril. Aired 10-10:30a ET
Jim Sciutto, Bianna Golodryga, Clarissa Ward, Phil Mattingly, Anna Stewart, Elliot Williams
4109 字
2022 年 2 月 23 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[10:00:00]

JIM SCIUTTO, CNN NEWSROOM: A very good morning to you. I'm Jim Sciutto reporting from Lviv, Ukraine.

BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN NEWSROOM: And I'm Bianna Golodryga in New York.

This morning, an urgent warning, Ukrainian officials telling citizens to leave Russia to leave immediately as the country moves to enact a state of emergency. At the same time, Russia is beginning to pull its diplomatic staff from Ukraine in an effort to, quote, protect their lives and safety. All signs of escalation and escalating tensions in the region right now, Jim.

SCIUTTO: We're also getting this news this morning. I just spoke to the prime minister of NATO member Latvia who tells me that Russia has now moved additional forces into the occupied Donbas territories in Eastern Ukraine since Putin recognized their independence. The latest U.S. intelligence assessment indicates those forces include one to two Russian battalion tactical groups comprised of some 800 to 1,600 personnel, as well as equipment, this according to a senior U.S. official with direct knowledge of the intelligence.

My full interview with the prime minister is just moments ahead.

But we also have new satellite pictures that appear to show Russian troops adding troops, tents and field hospitals right on Ukraine's border. Plus, CNN crews evacuating the Donetsk region of Eastern Ukraine this morning as shellfire rained down on the area, this after capturing just stunning images of bombed-out buildings.

Our reporters and correspondents are following every angle of this story from across the region and back home. We begin this morning with CNN Chief International Correspondent Clarissa Ward, she is in the capital of Kyiv. Clarissa, Ukraine urging its citizens to leave Russia immediately, a state of emergency here in the U.S., it just makes this clear, does it not, that the government is considering this an urgent threat?

CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Jim. And I think up until this point, we've really seen the Ukrainian leadership try to take a moderate tone here, urging people to be calm, saying they don't consider this yet to be a full invasion, though, of course, it's a violation of territorial integrity and of sovereignty, and, generally, trying to tamp down any notion of panic.

But there's definitely been a shift, I would say, in the last 24 hours or so, President Zelensky announcing that he's calling up reservists and now the announcement that there will be a state of emergency enacted sometime within the next 48 hours. That state of emergency would last 30 days and could then go on to be extended from there.

And as President Volodymyr Zelensky said today, Jim, quote, the future of European security is being decided in an instant. We've also heard security forces here saying that if there is any provocation or any attack on Ukrainian forces, that they will respond in an instant. But for now, they have not yet mobilized the military, so clearly leaving themselves a little bit of road yet to go. They also said at some point they could enter in state martial law but that has not happened yet.

Still, though, the overwhelming sort of idea coming from Ukraine's leaders is the idea that we need to continue on this path of maximal pressure on the Russians to try to adapt or adopt, rather, a diplomatic path. Ukraine's foreign minister saying today with regards to those sanctions, hit more, hit hard, hit now.

SCIUTTO: And it's remarkable to see here in Lviv, I'm sure you're seeing it to some degree in Kyiv, right, people with perhaps a sense of disbelief that this is where we are today. Clarissa Ward, thanks so much.

Also new this morning, the White House says to expect additional sanctions on Russia, suggesting that even if Russia were to take no further action in Ukraine, the U.S. and its allies will continue to impose costly sanctions on that country.

GOLODRYGA: CNN Senior White House Correspondent Phil Mattingly is in D.C. and CNN Reporter Anna Stewart is in London.

Phil, first to you, the U.S. has already leveled several sanctions against Russia, slapped restrictions on key members on Putin's inner circle and notably their children. This is different, a different approach and that President Biden warned that he would, different from 2014, when Russia initially invaded Ukraine and annexed Crimea. Break this down for us all.

PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bianna. It kind of underscores there's been an evolution in terms of sanctions and in terms of willingness to go after targets that perhaps were either seen as out of play or officials were more reticent to go after. I think when you look at this first salvo, this opening salvo of U.S. sanctions, much of which are largely aligned with our European and U.K. allies, you get a sense of what may be coming next, more than anything else, full blocking sanctions on two Russian state-owned banks.

They're not the biggest banks but putting full blocking sanctions into place is a big deal and making clear the two largest banks, VTB Bank and Sberbank, are likely next in the next round or two of sanctions if Russia continues to escalate.

[10:05:05]

That is a notable development. Also cutting off Russia's sovereign debt from western marketplaces, while Russia has largely worked to insulate itself in terms of sovereign debt over the course of the last couple of years, it is a big step just to move in that direction.

But you hit on one of, I think, the most interesting elements of this opening package of sanctions. For years, the U.S. have sanctioned top Russian officials, Russian oligarchs as well. What they did yesterday is go beyond that and target their children, the sons of two top Russian officials, Denis Bortnikov and Vladimir Kiriyenko, the sons of the Domestic Intelligence chief, one of President Putin's top domestic policy advisers.

Petr Fradkov is the CEO of one of the banks that was sanctioned but he's also the son of the former chief of the Foreign Intelligence Service, who remains powerful in intelligence circles in Russia, making very clear that there is a sense inside U.S. officials that while they have sanctioned Russian officials and oligarchs in the past, much of that money has been shielded in part because they're able to funnel it over to family members. Now, those family members are fair game, as the deputy treasury secretary, Wally Adeyemo, laid out this morning.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WALLY ADEYEMO, DEPUTY SECRETARY OF TREASURY: One of the things we did yesterday was in addition to going after the named individuals, we went after their children. And our goal will be, as we continue, is to make sure that we target the individuals around them to ensure that the money they're sending to places, like London and New York through those individuals, can no longer flow. And we can restrict the ability of this money to flow back to President Putin.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTINGLY: Bianna, all of this underscoring that whether it's on financial services, whether it's on the broader Russian economy or whether it's on individuals and their families, the U.S. is going to continue to escalate if Russia does the same. When it comes to those family members, I'm told there is a significant target list and a very clear expectation that more will be in future rounds of sanctions, no question about that, Bianna.

GOLODRYGA: Yes. We should also note that Russia has prepared for this in many ways, building a fortress and reserves, some $630 billion, anticipating perhaps this following initially being sanctioned years ago.

I want to turn to Anna now, because we're learning this morning that the E.U. now plans to sanction Russian defense minister and then Kremlin-backed Russian Internet Research Agency. What more are you learning about this?

ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Yes. So, yesterday, the E.U. agreed on lots of sanctions in line with western allies, but we didn't have the detail of the 27 individuals and entities and we're beginning to get some of that. So, as you mentioned, the Russian defense minister, for obvious reasons, very interestingly, the Russian Research Internet Agency.

Now, this is widely regarded as a Russian troll farm and it was alleged to have been involved in the meddling of the U.S. election in 2016. It's already been sanctioned by the U.S. And as we get more details from the E.U. and the other individuals and entities, I suspect we'll see some familiar names in terms of those that have already faced sanctions in the past by other western allies.

We're waiting for more information. It is not easy to get 27 members of the E.U. to agree on anything at all, so that might be why it's taking a little bit of time. The U.K., of course, which did disagree with E.U. on many things and left the E.U., is very much in line with its allies, very similar sanctions announced yesterday. And also as of today, it's announced further military help for Ukraine, pledging more military support. Bianna?

GOLODRYGA: Phil Mattingly, Anna Stewart, thank you.

And, Jim, we should note at least publicly, many of these officials in Russia that have been sanctioned have been sanctioned before, and they say before a Russian audience that they wear it as a badge of honor, how they feel personally, one could only guess.

SCIUTTO: And we'll see if Putin himself is next. Bianna, thanks so much.

Moments ago, I had the chance to speak to the prime minister of Latvia, of course, a NATO member, Krisjanis Karins.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SCIUTTO: First, I want to begin with the status here in Ukraine. Is it your view, is it NATO's view that Russia's invasion of Ukraine has already begun?

KRISJANIS KARINS, LATVIAN PRIME MINISTER: According to the information that's at my disposal, Putin is moving in additional forces and tanks into the occupied Donbas territories. By any definition, that's a crossing of the sovereign territory into a neighboring country. That is an invasion. It is the military that's doing this. SCIUTTO: So you're saying you're seeing Russian units, new Russian units that have moved into Donbas since this declaration of supposed independence?

KARINS: Yes, according to the information at my disposal, this is exactly what we're seeing.

SCIUTTO: You, along with other top members of the Latvian government released a statement earlier this week urging, quote, the international community, to take measures, the strongest possible measures, to stop Russia's aggression, offer assistance to Ukraine. Have the steps you have seen so far, including the range of sanctions announced yesterday, do they meet that standard, in your view? Are they enough to deter Putin from further action?

KARINS: Will they deter? We will see. But certainly they meet the standard. And what's very important to understand that these are very unified and very broad sanctions coming from across the democratic world.

[10:10:00]

We have sanctions coordinated between the E.U., the U.K., the U.S., Canada, Japan. These are all complimentary to one another, and as a package, they're actually quite severe because they hit individuals, they hit state finance, they hit banks and they hit the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. So, it's a very broad-ranging set of sanctions deeper than anything we've seen before. Nothing like this was in the package when they invaded and occupied the Crimea eight years ago.

SCIUTTO: Of course, at the top of the pyramid in Russia is Vladimir Putin. The White House is sanctioning people close to Putin and their assets. But this is a man who's believed to have stolen many hundreds of millions of dollars, has it spirited away around the world. Do you believe that sanctions by the west should target Putin and his assets, his family, personally?

KARINS: I think that what we're seeing now is the first wave of sanctions. So, Putin moves military units into Ukraine, the democratic world responds immediately within one day and across all the time zones with coordinated and very deep sanctions. If there will be more moves, there will be more sanctions. And they will only be cutting deeper and deeper.

SCIUTTO: Latvia and the other Baltic States have been very forward- leaning in their military assistance to Ukraine, giving lethal assistance, such as shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles, this kind of thing, that other NATO partners were reluctant to give. Do you believe Ukraine has been given enough military assistance to help resist a Russian invasion, or has the alliance fallen short? Should it step up more?

KARINS: Well, Ukraine needs all the assistance we can muster, so military assistance and financial assistance. Financial assistance right now is no less important. It's going to cost them a lot to maintain their own military, their own public debt, lack of investments, because of the military aggression, we have to help them there.

And militarily-wise, some western democratic countries are assisting them, so we have the U.S. with the great assistance, we have the U.K., Canada announcing, the Baltics, Poland, so this number of countries, hopefully, the list will grow and we have to show solidarity and support for Ukraine, not only military but especially also financing. And the European Union as a whole has now pledged 1.2 billion, and I think this is the first pledge other member states, such as Germany, have pledged additionally.

So, this is what we need to see, a combination of financial support and military support to help them get through this crisis.

SCIUTTO: I spoke yesterday to the Estonian prime minister who said, when she listened to Putin's speech on Monday, when he described it is madness that the former Soviet Republics were allowed to leave the former USSR, spoke nostalgically of a Russian empire, she said, that felt like a threat, a not so veiled threat to other former Soviet republics, like the Baltics, yourself included. Do you share that concern? Do you think that Putin's aspirations lie beyond Ukraine?

KARINS: Very clearly, Putin has stated as such. He is recreating with what, in his mind, with a skewed view of hitter, actually an absurd view of history, is to create some sort of Russian empire in a time when we live in Europe, national nation states, democratic nation states, he is doing the anachronistic move of trying to recreate an empire. And it is a huge clash of values and ideas. He does not believe in the right of a nation's self-determination. If he says this about Ukraine, he's saying it about anyone, including any other European country.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SCIUTTO: There the Latvian prime minister, Krisjanis Karins, thanks very much to him.

And, Bianna, a notable headline there confirming that it is his information that he has seen that Russia has already moved new forces into the occupied Donbas area into eastern Ukraine, which, as he described, constitutes an invasion. It may explain, may help explain, why we've seen all these sanctions coming through in the last 24 hours.

GOLODRYGA: Yes, a really different world in the past 48, 72 hours, Jim. And I think what we're seeing, especially from these leaders of these Baltic NATO members is that they're not only responding to what they're seeing on the ground there in Ukraine, they're responding to what they heard from Vladimir Putin in that lengthy speech, where he rewrote history, and that revisionist history, which he laid out as to how he viewed not only Russia and Ukraine but Europe as a whole. And that really woke up not just those but really the world.

SCIUTTO: Absolutely. And remember, he said it was madness, in his word, that those former Soviet republics, which actually include Latvia, Estonia as well, Lithuania, madness that they were allowed to leave what he called the Russian empire, remarkable. [10:15:08]

GOLODRYGA: Remember, they never chose to join. It wasn't an option for them. They clearly chose to leave.

Jim, thanks so much, great interview.

And still ahead, opening statements are underway in the trial of a former officer charged in connection to the botched raid that left Breonna Taylor dead. We're live in Louisville, Kentucky, up next.

And he pushed Trump's big lie of a stolen election, but now, Attorney Eastman is fighting to keep certain emails out of the hands of the January 6 committee. We're digging deeper for you. That's all, straight ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:20:00]

GOLODRYGA: The right-wing lawyer who helped develop former President Trump's false argument that the 2020 election was stolen is fighting to keep about 130 emails out of the hands of the committee investigating January 6th.

Now, John Eastman has already turned over thousands of pages of emails, but he's citing attorney/client privilege to keep secret emails from around the insurrection, specifically, listen to these dates, from January 4th through January 7th of 2021.

Here to discuss is former Federal Prosecutor and Deputy Assistant Attorney General Elliot Williams. Elliot, I specifically noted those dates because you see what was sandwiched between them. I'm curious to get your take as to whether his argument will hold up in before of a judge.

ELLIOT WILLIAMS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Look, Bianna, if he was, if John Eastman was providing legal advice to the president as his attorney, some of his statements will be protected by attorney/client. What the does is protect the conversations that people, clients have with their attorneys. We want that, we respect it and so on.

But the problem is, number one, if he's having conversations with the president outside of the scope of his representation of him, sort of non-legal conversations, and number two, if he's just claiming attorney/client privilege over every statement that he's making, none of those things will be protected. So, it will fall to the judge to sort of slice it up and make sense as to what's fact and what's fiction here.

GOLODRYGA: So, aside from the optics and how bad it just looks to the average eye when you look at the dates that he's wanting to withhold, I'm curious whether the judge will see that he's turned over other emails as an attempt for him to comply and does exude some sort of empathy for him and sympathy and allow this to go forward. WILLIAMS: I think that's a really good assessment. Number one, the dates are suspect, number two, the fact he has turned information over would seem to kind of get (ph) this. And number three, the relationship with the president appears to have been as political as it was legal. He was providing advice as to these election integrity working groups, where, yes, there is a working element to it but there is also a political element of a device to a candidate, and this is just for the judge to try to make sense of.

GOLODRYGA: So, let me ask you about another legal issue the president is facing here in New York, and that is Allen Weisselberg, the former chief financial officer of the Trump Organization, has asked a judge to dismiss the tax fraud indictment against him. What's the likelihood and give us some specifics as to why would he be asking for this and what's the likelihood that a judge would agree to it?

WILLIAMS: Right. there's a few things. One, he, like, frankly, the president, has made the argument that the prosecutors bringing the case were politically biased against him on the basis of statements they've made. That's just not a winner. Political D.A., district attorneys and attorneys general across the country are elected and make statements on the campaign trail. You're not going to throw out a case on the basis of a district attorney having said something about the former president, so, okay, non-starter.

Number two, he says that statements were sort of coerced out of him when he was in custody. Again, if he had an attorney present, or if he didn't have an attorney present or if he was handcuffed and they were badgering him for statements, then, yes, he might be able to get those statements tossed out, but, again, that's a pretty high burden. So, most of the places where he's seeking to have the case dismissed, they're just not likely, I think.

GOLODRYGA: Elliot, what is interesting is that Weisselberg is a similar argument and claim that we've seen the former president and his children make, and that is that this is all political, and thus should be dismissed, that this has nothing to do with any grounded information, right, crimes but just that the D.A. here in New York is out to get the president, the former president, and those who worked with him. Why do they keep making this argument and does it hold up at all?

WILLIAMS: One, because it's sort of what they have. They're making lemons out of lemonade here, Bianna. But two things can be true. Number one, a party can be investigate, sort of a party to a trial can be investigated by a Republican or a Democrat, and they might have also engaged in the misconduct. And we have a system in the country that allows for the election, the popular political election, of elected officials.

Sometimes the party to the suit and the district attorney are going to be of different political parties, and that's okay, and it happens. The real question is when the judge looks at this, to what extent are the allegations going to stand up, and as we've seen thus far, a number of these motions have just been tossed out or defeated. GOLODRYGA: We will continue to watch. You will continue to come on and break it all down for us. Elliot Williams, thank you, we really appreciate your expertise.

WILLIAMS: Take care.

GOLODRYGA: Well, new sanctions on Russia could have an impact here in the U.S., how gas prices may take a hit. That's up next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:25:00]

GOLODRYGA: Right now, the United Nations is meeting to debate the crisis in Ukraine. And the secretary-general is sounding the alarm about the seriousness of this moment in history.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANTONIO GUTERRES, UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY GENERAL: We meet in the face of the most serious global peace and security crisis in recent years and certainly in my time as secretary-general.

[10:30:00]

Our world is facing a moment of peril. I truly hoped it would not come. The latest developments regarding Ukraine are a cause for great --

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220223ei2n000m9


World
‘Non-negotiable’: Putin’s blunt new message 
Alexis Carey, Alex Blair and Matt Young
3703 字
2022 年 2 月 23 日 02:46 GMT
news.com.au
NLNEWW
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
President Vladimir Putin has appeared in a video address after ordering Russian forces into two rebels regions in eastern Ukraine, sparking fears of all-out war.

Around 10,000 Russian troops have entered the breakaway territories of Luhansk and Donetsk in eastern Ukraine – known collectively as the Donbas region — while Russian authorities have denied Ukraine’s right to sovereignty.

In the video, Putin says he is ready for “diplomatic solutions” surrounding the crisis but Russia’s interests are “non-negotiable”.

The EU has called for sanctions to be extended to Belarus, after new satellite images revealed new Russian military build-up on its soil, just 40km north of the Ukrainian border.

The Ukrainian government made a number of announcements on Wednesday, including the drafting of army reservists aged 18-60.

Ukrainian civilians have also been given the right to carry firearms and defend themselves, after the country‘s parliament voted in favour of the emergency measure.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison addressed the nation to reveal Australia’s response to the crisis, including a string of fresh sanctions.

Stream the latest news on the escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine live & on demand on Flash. 25+ news channels in 1 place. New customers try 14 days free >

NED-5556-Separatist-regions-of-UkraineOfficials in Australia, United Kingdom and United States – including President Joe Biden – have described Russia’s move as an “invasion”, demonstrating a major pivot in language used to describe the unfolding crisis.

Mr Biden vowed to impose tough sanctions in response, and Germany has announced it is halting certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia.

Mr Biden vowed to impose tough sanctions in response, and Germany has announced it is halting certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia

Vladimir Putin appears in new message

President Putin has appeared in a video message to celebrate a Russian public holiday — Fatherland Day.

In a long message to Russians, where he bragged, “we have weapons that are second to none in the world and they are operational”, Mr Putin said the Kremlin is open to “honest dialogue” but warned “the interests of Russia are non-negotiable”.

“Comrade officers,” he said.

“Ensuring that our country can defend itself remains a primary responsibility of government, and the Armed Forces serve as a reliable guarantee of our national security, the peaceful and orderly lives of our people and Russia’s stable and steady development.

“We can see the difficult international situation and the threats posed by current challenges, such as the erosion of the arms control system and NATO’s military activities.

“And yet, Russia’s appeals to build a system of equal and indivisible security that would reliably defend all countries, remain unanswered.

“Our country is always open to a direct and honest dialogue and ready to search for diplomatic solutions to the most complicated issues.

“But I want to repeat that Russia’s interests and the security of our people are an indisputable priority. So, we will continue to strengthen and modernise our Army and Navy, striving to increase their effectiveness, so they are fitted out with the most cutting-edge equipment.

“We will continue to develop promising weapon systems, including hypersonic weapons and those based on new physical principles, and expand the use of advanced digital technology and elements of artificial intelligence. Complexes like these are weapons of the future, which can boost the potential of our Armed Forces several-fold.

“As Supreme Commander-in-Chief, I have confidence in you, Russian soldiers and officers, in your high professionalism, bravery and reliability, that you will guard the peace of our people, and stand up for the national interests of our great country.

“I wish you good health and every success in your service. I want to extend the best wishes to your families and friends.

“Again, my sincere greetings to you on this holiday.”

Ukraine to announce state to emergency

Ukraine is set to annouce a state of emergy as it urged its three million citizens living in Russia to leave the country immediately.

The state of emergency is expected to last approximately 30 days after Ukraine’s security council approved the plan in response to Russia’s advance.

The move must be formally approved by parliament before coming into effect.

Russia began evacuating diplomatic staff from Ukraine, its embassy in Kyiv told AFP, a day after lawmakers in Moscow granted President Vladimir Putin to use force abroad.

Asked if the evacuation had begun, the embassy’s spokesman Denis Golenko told AFP by phone: “Yes.”

Moscow’s foreign ministry announced Tuesday it would evacuate diplomats from the country soon.

Russian ambassador hauled into Canberra meeting

Russia’s ambassador to Australia has been hauled to Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and TradeAustralia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade office.

Alexey Pavlovsky was pictured entering the Canberra building and was inside speaking with the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Defence and Trade Kathryn Campbell for approximately half an hour as Russian troops entered breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine.

He avoided the media as he left but the Prime Minister hasn’t ruled out kicking Mr Pavlovsky out of the country.

“We haven’t taken that step,” Mr Morrison said.

“Other countries, and I’ve discussed this with other leaders, they haven’t taken those decisions as yet. But we will see where this proceeds.”

New photos reveal scale of Russia’s ‘invasion’ plans

Newly-released satellite pictures have revealed the extent of Russia’s planned “invasion” of Ukraine.

One of the images, from Maxar Technologies, show a deployment of forces and vehicles in Belarus, north of the border with Ukraine.

Another shows masses of troops in Pochep, western Russia, while a third reveals a new deployment, material support and troops gathered near Belgorod, Russia.

EU’s foreign affairs chief Josep Borrel called for sanctions to be extended to Belarus if an attack is launched by Russian troops from its soil.

“I want to repeat once again that any further aggression against Ukraine will have a strong answer from the European Union,” Mr Borrell said in Brussels following a 10-hour meeting with 27 foreign ministers.

Lithuania’s foreign affairs minister Gabrielius Landsbergis claimed some of the Belarusian armed forces were taking orders from Russia

“Belarusian troops are receiving their commands now more and more from the Russian political decision-makers … and that means that there’s low, very low, levels of independence in the Belarusian army,” he said.

Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has previously said it is “clear whose side Belarus will be on” if war breaks out in the region.

Scott Morrison speaks with Ukrainian PM

Scott Morrison and Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal spoke by phone this evening to discuss the developing situation, after the Prime Minister announced sanctions against Russia.

“Prime Minister Morrison reaffirmed Australia’s unwavering commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and denounced Russia’s aggressive behaviour towards Ukraine as unacceptable, unprovoked and unwarranted,” a spokesman said.

“The Prime Minister informed Prime Minister Shmyhal of Australia’s immediate action to sanction Russian individuals, organisations and banks as part of an international effort to impose a sharp cost on Russia for its actions against Ukraine.

“The Prime Minister affirmed Australia’s preparedness to do more, working with our partners, and in response to Ukraine’s needs.”

Australian sanctions revealed

Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has confirmed there will be travel bans and financial sanctions against eight individuals linked to Russia’s national security council, with restrictions also placed on the transport, energy, telecommunications and oil gas and mineral reserves industries in the rebel regions.

He added sanctions would also be rolled out against Russian banks as part of a “first tranche” of sanctions, and said Australia’s response was designed to be “in lock-step” with the US.

The sanctions will include “travel bans and targeted financial sanctions” to “ensure we can target those … who are aiding and abetting this invasion”.

He said Russia’s acts had “no validity under international law” and that “we won’t hesitate to take further action”.

“It’s included to capture persons and entities of what is termed ‘strategic and economic significance to Russia’ and so that gives us a broad coverage to ensure that we can target those who are particularly involved in these actions and who are aiding and abetting this invasion.”

He said Australia had been stepping up its preparedness for potential cyber attacks

Mr Morrison confirmed that more than 400 Ukrainians have so far applied for temporary asylum in Australia, and that their applications would move to the “top of the pile”.

Opposition Labor Anthony Albanese offered bipartisan support for the sanctions on Russian, saying “Australians stand as one”.

Full-scale invasion ‘in 24 hours’: PM

Mr Morrison has confirmed that while the invasion of Ukraine had already begun, a full-scale invasion would occur within the next “24 hours”.

“The invasion of Ukraine has effectively already begun,’’ he said.

“As President Biden has also remarked, the invasion is unjustified. It’s unwarranted. It’s unprovoked. and it’s unacceptable.”

He added that while the invasion would ramp up within hours, “there are even reports already of shelling and things of that nature, which could indicate that it has already begun”.

But Mr Morrison stressed that: “Australians always stand up to bullies and we will be standing up to Russia, along with all of our partners … and all of those who believe that it’s absolutely unacceptable that Russia could invade its neighbour and seek to extract some concessions or advantage out of threats of terrible violence upon its neighbour.”

He added that “there must be consequences” for Russia’s behaviour, accusing Russian authorities of acting like “bullies and thugs”.

UK sanctions designed to ‘inflict pain’ on Russia

UK foreign secretary Liz Truss has endorsed her government’s sanctions against Russia, warning the “tepid response” is the “toughest sanctions regimen we have ever put in place” against the nation.

When asked if Russian political donors to the UK would be included in the sanctions, Mrs Truss said “nothing is off the table in terms of who we‘re targeting”.

She said the UK’s initial response was to “inflict pain” on Russia as it advances into Ukraine, warning more action will be taken if President Vladimir Putin persists.

She warned it was “highly likely” Putin will ”follow through on his plan for full-scale invasion”.

“We have not yet seen a full-scale invasion but we are very clear that if President Putin escalates, we the international community will escalate our sanctions,” she said.

‘One last chance’: Russia’s grim threat

Vladimir Putin brutally mocked his own spy chief, urging the senior official to “speak plainly” during a televised meeting on Monday.

The clash came as Mr Putin appeared to grow frustrated by Director of Foreign Intelligence Sergey Naryshkin’s failure to adequately support Russia’s move to recognise Ukraine’s pro-Russian breakaway regions.

But while much of the attention so far has been on Putin’s humiliation of Mr Naryshkin, one of his comments have revealed Russia’s grim threat to the West before an “invasion” of Ukraine.

“With the suggestion of Nikolai Platonovich, that we could give our, how to say it, Western partners, one last chance,” Mr Naryshkin said.

“Presenting them with the choice, in the shortest time frame, to force Kyiv to choose peace and implement the Minsk agreements

“In the worst case, we must make the decision that we are discussing today.”

“What does it mean, ‘in the worst case’? Are you suggesting we start negotiations?” Mr Putin fired back.

“Or to recognise sovereignty?”

Mr Naryshkin stuttered as he tried to respond, prompting Mr Putin to demand he “speak, speak, speak plainly!”

“I support the proposal about the entry of the Donetsk and Luhansk Peoples’ Republics into the Russian Federation,” Mr Naryshkin replied.

“We’re not talking about that,” Mr Putin shot back. “We’re not discussing that. We’re talking about recognising their independence or not.”

“Yes,” Mr Naryshkin eventually confirmed.

“I support their proposal for independence.”

Fears for Australia after new sanctions announced

Concerns are growing that Australia could face Russian cyber attacks in response to new sanctions imposed as a result of the Ukraine crisis.

Home Affairs Minister Karen Andrews warned that the nation’s “critical infrastructure” could be a target.

“We are concerned about protecting Australia’s interests and we are concerned about the potential for a cyber attack on our critical infrastructure,” she said.

“Now, that doesn’t mean we are going to go lightly in our response to Russia because their behaviour needs to be called out.”

It’s expected that PM Scott Morrison will announce additional financial sanctions in a 12.45pm address following today’s National Security Committee meeting.

We’ll bring you all the updates here.

Russia’s new threat as ‘invasion’ begins

Any hopes of avoiding war in Europe are fading fast as Russia vows it won’t stop the “invasion” of Ukraine, denying the neighbouring country‘s right to exist.

The provocative warning comes amid a huge language shift among world leaders, who now confirm the situation in Ukraine is an invasion and that the threat of all-out war is rising fast.

Around 10,000 troops and tanks and equipment have already moved into the two pro-Russian rebel Ukrainian territories of Luhansk and Donetsk after Mr Putin yesterday recognised them as separate entities.

Russia’s parliament voted to allow the use of armed forces outside Russia while President Putin declared he wanted to see “demilitarisation” in Ukraine.

Meanwhile, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov announced that Russia now recognised the breakaway regions in borders which existed when they declared their independence back in 2014, including parts of eastern Ukraine on the other side of the so-called “contact line” between the two nations.

NED-5555-Putins-Terminator-tanks

Mr Putin also said Russia recognised Donetsk and Luhansk “within borders outlined in their constitutions”, while Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Russia did not recognise its democratic neighbour’s right to sovereignty in what has been seen as a major hint that war was looming.

Mr Lavrov justified his comments by arguing that sovereignty was only the right of nations that represented their entire populations, alleging Kyiv had failed ethnic Russians.

“Nobody can assert that the Ukrainian regimen, starting with the state coup of 2014, represents all the people who live on the territory of the Ukrainian state,” he said.

The language used by Mr Putin and Mr Lavrov have been seen as confirmation Moscow would not back down in its “invasion” of Ukraine.

Ukraine’s reservists called in

Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy has announced he has called up army reservists to assist as the situation with Russia escalates.

“There is no need for general mobilisation today. We need to promptly replenish the Ukrainian army and other military formations,” he said.

“As the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, I issued a decree on the conscription of reservists during a special period.

“We must increase the readiness of the Ukrainian army for all possible changes in the operational situation.”

Ukraine’s desperate plan to defeat Russia

Ukraine’s foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has revealed Ukraine’s two plans in the fight to protect its territory from Russian invasion.

“We have two plans,” Mr Kuleba said in today’s press conference.

“Plan A is to utilise every tool of diplomacy to deter Russia and prevent further escalation. “And if that fails, Plan B is to fight for every inch of our land, and every city and every village.

“Then, to fight until we win, of course.”

UN slams Russia

UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has fronted the press in New York in light of the Ukraine situation, slamming Russia’s provocative decision to recognise the rebel regions.

“Let me be clear. The decision of the Russian Federation to recognise the so-called independence of certain areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions is a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine,” he said.

Mr Guterres also lashed Russia’s claim troops were in the regions for \"peacekeeping” purposes.

“When troops of one country enter the territory of another country without its consent, they are not impartial peacekeepers,” he said.

“They are not peacekeepers at all.”

World on ‘edge of the largest catastrophe since World War II’.

Ukraine’s foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has also held a joint press conference with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, slamming the “unprovoked and unjustified war on another sovereign state in Europe which Russia now intensifies”.

“We all are at a critical juncture for the security of Europe as well as international peace and security more broadly,” he said.

“Russian aggression has brought the world to the edge of the largest catastrophe since World War II.

“Yesterday, President Putin moved to recognise two pieces of Ukrainian land as independent entities.

“Ukraine does not and will never recognise this absurdity, neither will the world recognise it.”

Mr Kuleba also had some strong words for those who hesitated to describe the crisis as an invasion.

“There’s no such thing as a minor, middle or major invasion. Invasion is an invasion,” Mr Kuleba said.

Expert says Russian sanctions doomed to fail

Hugh White, a professor of strategic studies at the Australian National University, told ABC News Breakfast on Wednesday that sanctions imposed against Russia would be all but useless.

“When a country as powerful as Russia, and it does remain a powerful country militarily, decides to move to armed force, really only armed force can respond and I think the fact is that Putin is now asking the rest of the world to choose between a Ukraine which is allowed to join NATO on the one hand, what the West wants, or a Ukraine which is steadily dismantled by Putin as he increasingly puts military pressure on it,” he said.

“What I think what we have seen today is quite possibly just the first step of a broader serving of incursions in the country.

“We’re brought face-to-face, if you like, with the reality that the rules-based order we all hoped to see emerge in the world after the Cold War, really does still find itself subject to the harsh realities of power and in Ukraine, in eastern Europe, the harsh reality of power goes Putin’s way.”

Ukraine shelled 80 times in 24 hours

Ukraine’s Defence Ministry has claimed Ukrainian territories were shelled a staggering 80 times in just 24 hours from the breakaway regions of Luhansk and Donetsk.

In a statement, the ministry confirmed 58 of those incidents were from weapons which are specifically banned under the Minsk agreements – a ceasefire pact hashed out in 2014 and 2015.

However, Mr Putin has stated that the Minsk accord “no longer exists”.

At least one fatality has been recorded in Ukraine so far, as well as a handful of injuries.

She has also called for all remaining Australians in Ukraine – believed to be around 100 – to leave immediately.

Biden’s sanctions revealed

US President Joe Biden spoke earlier, describing the crisis as “the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine”.

He also announced a slew of severe new sanctions against Russia.

“We’re implementing full blocking sanctions on two large Russian financial institutions: VEB and their military bank,” he said.

“We’re implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russia’s sovereign debt. That means we’ve cut off Russia’s government from Western financing. It can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either.

“We’ll also impose sanctions on Russia’s elites and their family members. They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share in the pain as well.

“We’ve worked with Germany to ensure that Nord Stream 2 will not … move forward.”

Mr Biden said if Moscow “continues its aggression” there could be tougher sanctions to come.

Russia has ‘now undeniably moved against Ukraine’: Biden

US President Joe Biden has condemned Vladimir Putin and announced a slew of sanctions in a fiery address this morning.

A clearly angry Mr Biden stated that Moscow had “now undeniably moved against Ukraine” after Mr Putin “bizarrely asserted that these (two breakaway) regions are no longer part of Ukraine and their sovereign territory”.

“To put it simply, Russia just announced that it is carving out a big chunk of Ukraine,” he said.

“Last night, Putin authorised Russian forces to deploy into this region, today he asserted these regions are actually extending deeper than the two areas he recognised.

“He is setting up a rationale to take more territory by force in my view … he’s setting up a rationale to go much further. This is the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine as he indicated.”

Mr Biden said tough sanctions would be imposed “far beyond the steps we and our allies and partners implemented in 2014”.

They will include severe economic measures, which will target Russia’s financial institutions as well as members of Mr Putin’s inner posse.

“If Russia goes further with this invasion, we stand prepared to go further with sanctions,” he said.

“Who in the Lord’s name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belonged to his neighbours?

“This is a flagrant violation of international law.”

Russia’s move described as an ‘invasion’

US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin described Russia’s military intervention as an “invasion”.

Mr Austin said the “latest invasion” of Ukraine was “threatening the peace and security and prosperity of Ukraine, and of the transatlantic community,” and that the US would impose additional “severe economic costs as events dictate.”

Mr Biden’s deputy national security adviser Jon Finer told CNN, “an invasion is an invasion, and that is what is underway.”

“Russia has been invading Ukraine since 2014 … I am calling it an invasion.”

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 NLNEWW0020220223ei2n000bl


World
Canada sanctions Russia over Ukraine; Latvia reinforced
Anja Karadeglija
National Post
431 字
2022 年 2 月 23 日
National Post
FINP
All_but_Toronto
A7
英文
© 2022 National Post . All Rights Reserved.
OTTAWA Canada is imposing a "first round of economic sanctions" on Russia in response to what Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called a "further invasion of a sovereign state."

Foreign Affairs Minister Mélanie Joly said Putin's actions on Monday ordering troops into two breakaway regions of Ukraine after recognizing them as independent states are a "clear violation" of previous international agreements, the "UN Charter and the world order that has protected global security for decades."

"We are at the most dangerous moment for world stability in a generation," she said.

The measures announced by Trudeau mirror similar sanctions announced by the U.S. and EU Tuesday. Trudeau said Canada would ban Canadians "from all financial dealings" with the two breakaway regions in Ukraine, and from purchasing "Russian sovereign debt." Canada will also sanction "members of the Russian parliament who voted for the illegal decision to recognize these socalled republics," and impose additional sanctions on two "state-backed Russian banks and prevent any financial dealings with them."

Trudeau said those measures "target those responsible for violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine."

Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland said the "measures that Canada and our allies have been preparing will be sustained" and cautioned the "economic cost to Russia will be severe."

Joly warned "today's measures are just the beginning."

"Should Russia further invade Ukraine, it will be met with severe co-ordinated economic sanctions and increasing pressure if they refuse to change course."

Germany, which is dependent on imported natural gas from Russia, has halted certification of the Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline from Russia. Joly praised that decision Tuesday, while Trudeau noted that pipeline stood to be a "significant source of revenue" for Russia.

Earlier this month, Trudeau discussed "potential future co-operation on liquefied natural gas" with the German chancellor.

Peter Tertzakian , managing director of ARC Financial , told National Post it may be another two years before Canada can provide natural gas exports to Germany, because the necessary facilities here are still being built.

Last week, Trudeau said Canada would send Ukraine $7.8 million of lethal equipment and ammunition and offer a loan of up to $500 million, on top of the $120 million loan Canada offered earlier. On Tuesday, he said Canada has authorized the deployment of up to 460 more members of the Canadian Forces to NATO 's Operation Reassurance.

"This involves more troops to Latvia, as well as the deployment of an additional frigate and maritime patrol aircraft," Trudeau said.

National Post

Postmedia Network Inc.

文件 FINP000020220223ei2n0000b


World
Canada sanctions Russia over Ukraine; Latvia reinforced
Anja Karadeglija
National Post
430 字
2022 年 2 月 23 日
National Post
FINP
National
A7
英文
© 2022 National Post . All Rights Reserved.
Canada is imposing a "first round of economic sanctions" on Russia in response to what Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called a "further invasion of a sovereign state."

Foreign Affairs Minister Mélanie Joly said Putin's actions on Monday ordering troops into two breakaway regions of Ukraine after recognizing them as independent states are a "clear violation" of previous international agreements, the "UN Charter and the world order that has protected global security for decades."

"We are at the most dangerous moment for world stability in a generation," she said.

The measures announced by Trudeau mirror similar sanctions announced by the U.S. and EU Tuesday. Trudeau said Canada would ban Canadians "from all financial dealings" with the two breakaway regions in Ukraine, and from purchasing "Russian sovereign debt." Canada will also sanction "members of the Russian parliament who voted for the illegal decision to recognize these socalled republics," and impose additional sanctions on two "state-backed Russian banks and prevent any financial dealings with them."

Trudeau said those measures "target those responsible for violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine."

Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland said the "measures that Canada and our allies have been preparing will be sustained" and cautioned the "economic cost to Russia will be severe."

Joly warned "today's measures are just the beginning."

"Should Russia further invade Ukraine, it will be met with severe co-ordinated economic sanctions and increasing pressure if they refuse to change course."

Germany, which is dependent on imported natural gas from Russia, has halted certification of the Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline from Russia. Joly praised that decision Tuesday, while Trudeau noted that pipeline stood to be a "significant source of revenue" for Russia.

Earlier this month, Trudeau discussed "potential future co-operation on liquefied natural gas" with the German chancellor.

Peter Tertzakian , managing director of ARC Financial , told National Post it may be another two years before Canada can provide natural gas exports to Germany, because the necessary facilities here are still being built.

Last week, Trudeau said Canada would send Ukraine $7.8 million of lethal equipment and ammunition and offer a loan of up to $500 million, on top of the $120 million loan Canada offered earlier. On Tuesday, he said Canada has authorized the deployment of up to 460 more members of the Canadian Forces to NATO 's Operation Reassurance.

"This involves more troops to Latvia, as well as the deployment of an additional frigate and maritime patrol aircraft," Trudeau said.

National Post

Postmedia Network Inc.

文件 FINP000020220223ei2n0000z


Latvian banks will absolutely comply with all sanction rules - association
Ivars Motivāns
163 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 14:27 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, Feb 24 (LETA) - Latvian banks will absolutely comply with all the adopted sanction regulations, representatives of the Finance Latvia Association told LETA.

Asked whether the banks are planning to suspend transactions with Russia, the association's representatives indicated that the Finance Latvia Association has no information about the banks' plans regarding these matters and these would be each bank's individual business decisions.

As reported, Russian President Vladimir Putin unexpectedly made an address on Russian TV channel Rossiya-24 on Thursday, announcing that Russia has started a "military operation" in Ukraine, calling on the Ukrainian army to "put down the weapons".

Reportedly attacks were conducted from different directions, including from Crimea occupied by Russia in 2014.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky declared war in Ukraine and announced the Ukraine breaks the diplomatic ties with Russia.

The EU, the US, the UK and other countries have threatened Russia with grave sanctions.

33433036424545392D333430302D3446

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220224ei2o004ed


Latvian Prime Minister Backs Using SWIFT as Sanction Tool Against Russia
РИАН
157 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 20:46 GMT
Sputnik News Service
RVESEN
英文
© 2022. Sputnik. All Rights Reserved.
MOSCOW, February 24 (Sputnik) - The European Union should use the SWIFT network for financial transactions against Russia, but its has to be done with global approval, Latvian Prime Minister Arturs Krisjanis Karins said on Thursday.

EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell has already promised that the European Union will adopt "the harshest package of sanctions" against Russia in response to its special military operation in Ukraine.

"SWIFT, I think, is in the right direction​​​. I think we should go in this direction, but I think what is key is that it would work only if this is a worldwide agreement," Karins said, while arriving for the Special European Council on the situation in Ukraine.

In 2017, Russia launched the System for Transfer of Financial Messages as a replacement for SWIFT. Since then, it has been working to bring other countries on board in abandoning SWIFT.

Rossiya Segodnya International Information Agency

文件 RVESEN0020220224ei2o01bx1


Russia-Ukraine: What to know as Russia attacks Ukraine
By VANESSA GERA
Associated Press
1865 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 03:31 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
WARSAW, Poland (AP) — Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] that opened with air and missile strikes on Ukrainian military facilities before troops and tanks rolled across the borders from the north, east and south.

The Ukrainian military fought back on multiple fronts. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address early Friday that 137 people, both servicemen and civilians, have been killed and hundreds more wounded.

A senior U.S. defense official said Russia may be intent on seizing Kyiv, the capital, and other key cities and ultimately installing a more friendly government.

Explosions were heard in Kyiv before dawn on Friday.

As many Ukrainians piled into trains and cars to flee the fighting, the U.S. and European leaders rushed to punish Russia with strong financial sanctions. NATO moved to strengthen its eastern flank.

Here are the things to know [https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-new-zealand-australia-europe-08ae29f98152817b1b503b4b957c63f1] about the conflict over Ukraine and the security crisis in Eastern Europe:

PUTIN MAKES HIS MOVE

In a televised address as the attack began, Russian President Vladimir Putin[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-russia-moscow-kyiv-626a8c5ec22217bacb24ece60fac4fe1] said it was needed to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine, where Ukrainian forces and Russia-backed separatists have been fighting for almost eight years.

The U.S. had predicted Putin would falsely claim that the rebel-held regions were under attack to justify an invasion.

The Russian leader warned other countries[https://apnews.com/article/united-nations-general-assembly-russia-ukraine-europe-russia-united-nations-31c5af31d2a72163676459d317269b35] that any attempt to interfere in Ukraine would “lead to consequences you have never seen in history" — a dark threat implying Russia was prepared to use its nuclear weapons.

Putin accused the U.S. and its allies of ignoring Russia’s demands to block Ukraine from ever joining NATO and offer Moscow security guarantees.

Putin said Russia does not intend to occupy Ukraine but plans to “demilitarize” it, a euphemism for destroying its armed forces. He urged Ukrainian servicemen to “immediately put down arms and go home.”

Soon after his address, explosions were heard in the cities of Kyiv, Kharkiv and Odesa.

The Russian Defense Ministry said it had destroyed 83 Ukrainian military facilities.

ZELENSKYY RESPONDS TO THE ATTACK

Ukraine's president urged residents to remain calm and to stay at home, and pleaded with world leaders to punish Putin with even more severe sanctions.

He vowed that Ukraine will defend itself and ordered a full military mobilization. Ukraine's army stands at 250,000 servicemen with 140,000 reservists. The U.S. said Russia had nearly 200,000 troops arrayed near Ukraine's borders before the invasion began.

Zelenskyy said he has information that he's the No. 1 target for the invading Russians but he is determined to remain in Kyiv.

AN UNEASY NIGHT IN KYIV

Fearing a Russian attack, many of the capital's residents took shelter deep underground [https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-russia-kyiv-8bdf0355fca9faf6cc1b70eb86cc387f] in metro stations. People brought sleeping bags and blankets, dogs and crossword puzzles to pass an uneasy night in the makeshift bomb shelters.

In the early hours of the morning, several explosions were heard in different parts of the city.

Kyiv Mayor Vitaly Klitschko had called on the city’s 3 million people to stay indoors unless they worked in critical sectors and said everyone should prepare go-bags with necessities such as medicine and documents.

CHERNOBYL IN RUSSIAN HANDS

Ukraine said it lost control of the Chernobyl nuclear site after Ukrainian forces waged a fierce battle with Russian troops. A nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Kyiv exploded in April 1986, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell.

Alyona Shevtsova, an adviser to the commander of Ukraine’s Ground Forces, wrote on Facebook that the staff had been “taken hostage” when Russian troops seized the facility. The White House press secretary expressed alarm, saying it could hamper efforts to maintain nuclear facility.

THE WEST REACTS

World leaders decried an invasion that could cause massive casualties, topple Ukraine’s democratically elected government and threaten the post-Cold War balance.

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-russia-vladimir-putin-71bf9d3687e1a04f11dfb895639a13ca] called Russia's attack “a brutal act of war” and said Moscow had shattered peace on the European continent.

U.S. President Joe Biden said Putin “has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering."

The leaders of the Group of Seven called on the international community "to condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms, to stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine, and raise their voice against this blatant violation of the fundamental principles of international peace and security.”

The head of the U.N. refugee agency urged neighboring countries to keep their borders open for Ukrainians fleeing the fighting. U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said his agency had stepped up its operations and capacity in both Ukraine and its neighbors.

WORLD MARKETS FALL

World stock markets plunged[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-joe-biden-business-russia-asia-bdc394cc724018f570856fb33f2889b4] and oil prices soared over concerns that heating bills and food prices would skyrocket.

Beyond its human toll, the conflict looks set to send prices spiraling even higher at gasoline pumps and grocery stores around the world.

Russia and Ukraine are major producers not only of energy products but also grains and various other commodities. War could upend global supplies, as could sanctions brought by the United States and other allies.

WHAT SANCTIONS ARE WESTERN POWERS IMPOSING?

In announcing a new round of sanctions [https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-asia-europe-united-nations-8744320842fca825ae4e4ccae5acbe34] on Thursday, Biden said the U.S. and its allies will block the assets of four large Russian banks, impose export controls and sanction oligarchs.

The penalties fall in line with the White House’s insistence that it would look to hit Russia’s financial system and Putin’s inner circle, while also imposing export controls that would aim to starve Russia’s industries and military of U.S. semiconductors and other high-tech products.

New U.S. sanctions also targeted the military and financial institutions of Belarus, which Russia is using as a staging ground for its troops moving into Ukraine from the north.

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he would aim to cut Russia off from the U.K.’s financial market.

The sanctions include freezing the assets of all major Russian banks, including VTB Bank, its second-biggest. Britain also plans to bar Russian companies and the Russian government from raising money on U.K. markets.

Britain will ban the export of a wide range of high-tech products, including semiconductors, to Russia and bar its flagship airline, Aeroflot, from landing at U.K. airports.

The European Union and other Western allies, including Australia, Japan and South Koreas, announced similar sanctions.

OTHER REPERCUSSIONS FOR RUSSIANS

UEFA will no longer host the Champions League final in St. Petersburg in May, a person with knowledge of the decision told The Associated Press. The person spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private talks. An extraordinary meeting of the UEFA executive committee will be held Friday.

Valery Gergiev, a conductor who is close to Putin, will not lead the Vienna Philharmonic in a five-concert U.S. tour that starts at Carnegie Hall on Friday. Milan's Teatro alla Scala sent a letter to Gergiev asking him to make a clear statement in favor of a peaceful resolution in the Ukraine, or he would not be permitted to return for his next scheduled performance on March 5.

PROTESTS IN RUSSIA

Russians shocked by the invasion turned out by the thousands for street protests in Moscow and other cities. They signed open letters and online petitions demanding the Kremlin halt the assault. One petition garnered 330,000 signatures by the end of the day.

The crackdown was swift. Some 1,745 people in 54 Russian cities were detained, at least 957 of them in Moscow.

State television was all in for the invasion, with one host calling it an effort to protect people in eastern Ukraine from a “Nazi regime.”

EU BEEFS UP PEACEKEEPING FORCE IN BOSNIA

The European Union-led peacekeeping force in Bosnia announced that it would double the number of its ground troops to prevent ripple effects from the conflict in Ukraine.

The force described the step as a precautionary move. “The deterioration of the security situation internationally has the potential to spread instability” to the ethnically divided Balkan country, it said.

A staunchly pro-Russian Bosnian Serb leader, Milorad Dodik, has for years advocated the separation of the semi-autonomous Bosnian Serb mini-state from the rest of the country.

Last winter, with tacit support from Moscow, Dodik intensified his secessionist campaign, pledging to form an exclusively Serb army, judiciary and tax system.

The EU force announced that four companies of its reserve forces from Austria, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia would deploy to Bosnia over the next two weeks to reinforce its 600-strong contingent already stationed in the country. The new deployments will total 500 troops.

NATO'S EASTERN FLANK

The countries on NATO's eastern flank, all under Soviet domination during the Cold War, are especially nervous.

The Baltic states [https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-russia-estonia-race-and-ethnicity-soviet-union-187f098422b7a3170143de238865b526] of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia wondered if they could be the Kremlin's next target. They all have received the first batches of U.S. military troops and equipment as promised this week by Biden.

Poles were also shaken.

The parliament in Poland, which borders both Ukraine and Belarus, strongly denounced Russia’s attack on Ukraine and vowed its support to Ukraine.

U.S. Ambassador Mark Brzezinski sought to assure Poland that it is safe. He noted there are now 10,000 U.S. soldiers in Poland. More than half were deployed in recent weeks in response to the Russian threats.

Stoltenberg said: “Make no mistake: We will defend every ally against any attack on every inch of NATO territory.”

CHINA’S SUPPORT FOR RUSSIA

China’s customs agency on Thursday approved imports of wheat[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-russia-china-beijing-c73b5249d313d661ce1836911b1dbc45] from all regions of Russia, a move that could help to reduce the impact of possible Western sanctions.

China’s market is a growth area for other suppliers, but Beijing had barred imports until now from Russia’s main wheat-growing areas due to concern about possible fungus and other contamination.

Russia is one of the biggest wheat producers, but its exports would be vulnerable if its foreign markets blocked shipments in response to its attack on Ukraine.

Thursday’s announcement said Russia would “take all measures” to prevent contamination by wheat smut fungus and would suspend exports to China if it was found.

UKRAINE SEES MORE CYBERATTACKS

The websites of Ukraine’s defense, foreign and interior ministries were unreachable or painfully slow to load Thursday morning after a punishing wave of distributed-denial-of-service attacks [https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-technology-business-europe-russia-9e9f9e9b52eaf53cf9d8ade0588b661b] as Russia struck at its neighbor.

In addition to DDoS attacks on Wednesday, cybersecurity researchers said unidentified attackers had infected hundreds of computers with destructive malware, some in neighboring Latvia and Lithuania.

Officials had long expected cyberattacks to precede and accompany any Russian military incursion.

___

Associated Press writers around the world contributed to this report.

___

Follow AP’s coverage of the tensions between Russia and Ukraine at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: This version updates with explosions heard in Kyiv. With AP Photos.; AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220224ei2o00kix


Live updates: Ukraine diplomat urges China to talk to Putin
By The Associated Press
5761 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 04:44 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] :

TOKYO — The Ukrainian ambassador to Japan is urging China to join international efforts to stop the Russian “massacre” in his country amid Beijing’s lack of criticism of Moscow’s actions.

“We would very much welcome that China exercises its connection with Russia and talks to Putin and explains to him that it is inappropriate in the 21st century to do this massacre in Europe,” Ukrainian diplomat Sergiy Korsunsky told a news conference in Tokyo.

China has not criticized Russia over its actions against Ukraine, and has joined in verbal attacks on Washington and its allies.

“I do believe China can play a much more active role to work with Putin in a manner we expect for civilized countries to do,” he said.

Korsunsky also asked support from the United States and its allies to provide anti-missile defense equipment to fight Russian cruise missile attacks. He said Ukraine wants to join NATO and called for its support in resolving the conflict.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Explosions are being heard before dawn in Kyiv as Western leaders scheduled an emergency meeting and Ukraine’s president pleads for international help.

The nature of the explosions was not immediately clear, but the blasts came amid signs that the capital and largest Ukrainian city was increasingly threatened following a day of fighting that left more than 100 Ukrainians dead.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the government had information that “subversive groups” were encroaching on the city, and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Kyiv “could well be under siege” in what U.S. officials believe is a brazen attempt by Russian President Vladimir Putin to dismantle the government and replace it with his own regime.

U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin told lawmakers on a phone call that Russian mechanized forces that entered from Belarus were about 20 miles from Kyiv, according to a person familiar with the call

___

BEIJING — China’s Embassy in Ukraine says it is arranging evacuation flights for Chinese citizens. An embassy statement Friday says conditions in Ukraine have “deteriorated sharply” but makes no mention of the Russian invasion.

The embassy gave no details on where the evacuation flights would be leaving from. Nor did it say when the charter flights might happen, saying that scheduling will depend on the “flight safety situation.”

It says travelers should be packed and ready to react quickly once flight schedules are announced. Passengers must have a passport from China, Hong Kong or Macau or a “Taiwan compatriot card.”

The embassy earlier advised Chinese in Ukraine to stay home and to put a Chinese flag on their vehicles if they planned to travel long distances.

___

MANILA, Philippines — The Philippines top diplomat says he will travel to Ukraine’s border with Poland to ensure the safety of Filipinos fleeing from the eastern European country now under attack by Russian forces.

Foreign Secretary Teodoro Locsin Jr. did not specify in his tweet Friday where he is going. Nor did he say how many of the approximately 380 Filipinos in Ukraine are trying to flee amid the Russian invasion.

Locsin expressed gratitude to Poland for agreeing to accept fleeing Filipinos without entry visas.

The Philippines has not condemned Russia’s assault on Ukraine but has called for a peaceful resolution of the conflict. Its outgoing president, Rodrigo Duterte, has been a vocal Asian critic of U.S. security policies and has nurtured close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jingping.

___

TOKYO — Asian stock prices are higher early Friday after U.S. shares recovered toward the end of a wild trading day Thursday as the world slapped sanctions on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine.

Benchmarks are up in Japan, South Korea, Australia, Hong Kong and Shanghai.

Japan announced additional sanctions on Russia, including freezing the assets of Russian groups, banks and individuals and suspending exports of semiconductors.

Prices for oil and other commodities have risen sharply, raising inflation fears.

Despite uncertainty about the Ukraine crisis, as well as worries about COVID-19, the turnaround on Wall Street seemed to buoy Asian trading.

___

BRUSSELS — European Union leaders are putting on a united front after a six-hour meeting during which they agreed on a second package of economic and financial sanctions on Russia.

The EU Council president accuses Russia of using “fake pretexts and bad excuses” for justifying its invasion of Ukraine and says sanctions will hurt the government,

The legal texts for the sanctions agreed on are expected to be finalized overnight and be submitted for approval to EU foreign affairs ministers Friday.

EU Commission president Ursula von der Leyen says the package includes targeting 70% of the Russian banking market and key state-owned companies.

She says Russia’s energy sector also will be targeted “by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.” And there will be a ban on sales of software, semiconductors and airliners to Russia.

___

ADELAIDE, Australia — Australia’s prime minister is accusing China of throwing Russia a lifeline by easing trade restrictions at a time the much of the world is trying to stop the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison was reacting Friday to a report in The South China Morning Post that China had announced it was fully open to Russian wheat imports.

Morrison noted that Australia, the United States, Britain, the European Union and Japan are imposing sanctions on Russia, and said China 's easing of trade restrictions "is simply unacceptable.”

In his words: “You don’t go and throw a lifeline to Russia in the middle of a period when they’re invading another country.”

___

TOKYO — Japan has announced additional sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Friday that the new measures include freezing the assets of Russian groups, banks and individuals and suspending exports of semiconductors and other sensitive goods to military-linked organizations in Russia.

Kishida says that “Japan must clearly show its position that we will never tolerate any attempt to change the status quo by force.”

Earlier in the week, Japan suspended new issuances and distribution of Russian government bonds in Japan, aiming of reduce funding for Russia’s military. It also banned trade with the two Ukrainian separatist regions.

Japan has long sought to regain control of northern islands Russia seized at the end of World War II and previously had tended to be milder toward Moscow.

___

UNITED NATIONS — The U.N. Security Council will vote Friday on a resolution that would condemn Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine “in the strongest terms.” It also would demand an immediate halt to Russia’s invasion and the withdrawal of all Russian troops.

A senior U.S. official says the Biden administration knows the measure will be vetoed by Russia, but believes it is very important to put the resolution to a vote to underscore Russia’s international isolation.

The official says the council vote will be followed by a resolution voted on quickly in the 193-member U.N. General Assembly where there are no vetoes.

The final draft resolution, obtained Thursday by The Associated Press, would reaffirm the council’s commitment “to the sovereignty, independence, unity, and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders.”

The council is scheduled to vote at 3 p.m. EST Friday.

___

WASHINGTON — The White House is expressing outrage at “credible reports” from Ukrainian officials that the staff at the shuttered Chernoybl nuclear plant have been taken hostage by Russian troops.

Press secretary Jen Psaki said Thursday that “we condemn it and we request their release.”

Psaki says the U.S. has no assessment on the state of the plant where radioactivity is still leaking decades after the worst nuclear disaster in history. But she says hostage taking could hamper efforts to maintain the nuclear facility and is “incredibly alarming and greatly concerning.”

Psaki spoke after Alyona Shevtsova, an adviser to the commander of Ukraine’s Ground Forces, wrote on Facebook that the staff at the Chernobyl plant had been “taken hostage” when Russian troops seized the facility.

___

BRUSSELS — An official at France’s presidential office says the aim of French President Emmanuel Macron’s phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin was to demand the immediate halt of military operations.

According to the official at the Elysee Palace, Macron called Putin from Brussels on Thursday just before the start of an urgent meeting of European Union leaders focusing on sanctions against Russia.

The official says Macron made the call after consulting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

The official says Macron reminded Putin “that Russia was facing massive sanctions.” The official spoke anonymously in accordance with the French presidency practice.

According to the Kremlin’s report on the call, Putin and Macron agreed to continue their contacts.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says 137 civilians and military personnel have been killed so far in the Russian invasion of his country.

He calls them “heroes” in a video address released early Friday in which he also says hundreds more have been wounded.

Zelenskyy says that despite Russia’s claim it is attacking only military targets, civilian sites also have been struck. In his words: “They’re killing people and turning peaceful cities into military targets. It’s foul and will never be forgiven.”

The president says all border guards on Zmiinyi island in the Odesa region were killed Thursday. Ukraine’s border guard service earlier in the day reported that the island was taken by the Russians.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s president is ordering a full military mobilization to challenge the Russian invasion.

President Volodymyr Zelenskyy issued a decree Thursday evening saying the mobilization would last 90 days.

He ordered the military’s General Staff to determine the number of those liable for service and reservists as well as the order of the call-up.

Zelensky gave his Cabinet the job of allocating funds to pay for the mobilization.

___

BRUSSELS — European Union leaders pledged Thursday to impose tough economic and financial sanctions on Russia, but there is a lack of consensus within the West over cutting the country off the SWIFT financial payment system.

The Belgium-based cooperative is used by more than 11,000 institutions globally. It shuffles money from bank to bank, and removing Russia from it would likely also have an impact on European economies.

Ukraine has requested the move. While the head of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola, said EU sanctions need to include the exclusion of Russia from the scheme, many EU leaders remain unconvinced.

Dutch Prime minister Mark Rutte, for instance, said such a decision would also hurt European economies. Rutte said it should be a last-resort measure that could be decided at a later stage.

“A number of countries are hesitant since it has serious consequences for themselves,” he said.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary - Several thousand demonstrators gathered in front of the Russian embassy in Hungary’s capital on Thursday to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and demand that Hungary’s government cut its close ties with Moscow.

Waving the flags of Ukraine and the European Union, protesters chanted for peace and an end to the Russian attacks, and demanded that Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban pull his country out of its business dealings with Russia.

The demonstration in Budapest was organized by a coalition of six opposition parties that have united to unseat Orban and his ruling Fidesz party in parliamentary elections April 3.

That coalition’s candidate for prime minister, independent conservative Peter Marki-Zay, criticized Orban for his close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and urged the prime minister to “take a clear stand on Hungary’s commitment to the European Union and NATO, our allies.”

___

BRUSSELS — Josep Borrell, the EU’s top diplomat, said he spent his day “reaching out all over the world” to organize a united front against Russia.

Borrell carried his two phones upon arrival at the urgent meeting of EU leaders held on Thursday evening in Brussels.

He said he called more than 20 countries.

“The African Union, (countries in) Latin America, in Southeast Asia, India, Japan, .... a lot,” he said.

Borrell added that the sanctions he prepared with the EU’s executive arm that were agreed by leaders in retaliation to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine will start having effect once adopted by the EU Council during a meeting of foreign affairs ministers scheduled Friday.

The EU said sanctions will cover “the financial sector, the energy and transport sectors, dual-use goods as well as export control and export financing, visa policy, additional listings of Russian individuals and new listing criteria.”

___

PARIS — French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said on Thursday that sanctions that the European allies are discussing to impose on Russia are “massive and aimed at asphyxiating Russia’s economy”.

Measures that will be taken against Russia are “very massive, very strong and I believe they will be very effective,” Le Drian said in an interview with the French broadcaster TF1.

France is working with allies in NATO and at the United Nations on getting an international consensus to isolate Russia following President Vladimir Putin’s decision to invade Ukraine.

___

WASHINGTON — The U.S. State Department has at least temporarily withdrawn its remaining diplomatic presence from Ukraine.

The department says a core group of essential personnel who had relocated from the capital of Kyiv to the western city of Lviv near the Polish border earlier this month will now work from offices in Poland rather than on Ukrainian territory.

Earlier this week, the department had instructed those diplomats to work in Lviv during daylight hours but to spend their nights in Poland.

The department says they were ordered late Wednesday not to make the commute back to Lviv to work beginning Thursday until further notice.

___

VIENNA — The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency says it has been informed by Ukraine that “unidentified armed forces” have taken control of the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi called for “maximum restraint” to avoid actions that could put Ukraine’s nuclear facilities at risk.

“In line with its mandate, the IAEA is closely monitoring developments in Ukraine with a special focus on the safety and security of its nuclear power plants and other nuclear-related facilities,” he said in a statement.

___

WASHINGTON — U.S. aviation regulators widened the area of eastern Europe and Russia where U.S. airlines and pilots are barred because of the conflict.

In a new directive Thursday, the Federal Aviation Administration prohibited U.S. airlines from flying over any part of Ukraine or Belarus and the western part of Russia.

Earlier restrictions had barred U.S. airlines from flying over the eastern part of Ukraine. The restrictions cover both passenger and cargo flights, but not military ones.

___

MOSCOW — A Russian military plane crashed in the country’s Voronezh region that borders with Ukraine, the Russian military said Thursday night.

The An-26 plane was carrying out a planned flight transporting military equipment and crashed because of technical failure, military officials said, adding that the plane’s entire crew died in the crash.

They didn’t specify how many crew members were on board of the plane.

___

WASHINGTON — U.S. President Joe Biden says the sanctions against Russia for invading Ukraine will not disrupt the global oil and natural gas markets.

Biden says, “Our sanctions package is specifically designed to allow energy payments to continue.”

The president announced a series of sanctions at a White House speech Thursday. The sanctions include restrictions on exports to Russia and sanctions on Russian banks and state-controlled companies.

Biden also says that U.S. oil and gas companies should not exploit the geopolitical risks to hike their prices and raise their profits.

A key concern has been preserving Russian oil and natural gas exports, which are vital sources for Europe and other countries. Financial markets already view the Russian invasion in Ukraine as straining energy supplies with the soon to expire futures contract for Brent crude increasing more than 5% to top $100 a barrel.

___

UNITED NATIONS -- Ukraine’s ambassador to the United Nations has asked the president of the 193-member General Assembly to prepare for an emergency session in the coming days in light of Russia’s military aggression.

Ukraine’s U.N. Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya tweeted Thursday that the meeting should be held under the so-called “Uniting for Peace” resolution. The resolution gives the General Assembly the power to call emergency meetings to consider matters of international peace and security when the Security Council is unable to act because of the lack of unanimity among its five veto-wielding permanent members -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France.

The U.N. Security Council is expected to vote Friday on a resolution condemning Russia in the strongest terms possible for attacking Ukraine and demanding the immediate withdrawal of all its forces — knowing that Russia will veto the legally binding measure, according to a senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.

___

ROME — Addressing fellow G-7 leaders, Italian Premier Mario Draghi warned that the crisis over Ukraine “could last for a long time, we must be prepared.”

He thanked U.S. President Joe Biden for sharing intelligence in recent weeks. He also had praise Thursday evening for the European Commission for putting what he called “a good proposal of sanctions on the table.”

Italy is “completely aligned with France, Germany and the European Union” on sanctions, he said.

“We must be united, firm, decisive and we must re-affirm in every possible moment our full support to Ukraine,’’ Draghi said in his G-7 remarks, according to the premier’s office.

___

JERUSALEM — Israeli police say they arrested four people suspected of scrawling anti-Putin graffiti on the gate of the Russian embassy in Tel Aviv during a protest.

Several hundred people staged a demonstration outside the Russian Embassy in Tel Aviv on Thursday over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Another smaller protest was held outside the Russian consulate in the northern port city of Haifa.

Israel is home to a large population of immigrants former Soviet Union and their descendants who arrived in the 1990s and 2000s.

Israel maintains good relations with both Ukraine and Russia and has tried to avoid involvement in the conflict. Earlier on Thursday Israel’s foreign minister condemned Russia’s invasion.

___

UNITED NATIONS — Repeating a plea for Russia to halt its invasion of Ukraine, the U.N. chief said Thursday the world body was freeing up $20 million for urgent humanitarian needs in the country.

“Stop the military operation. Bring the troops back to Russia,” Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said at U.N. headquarters. He called the offensive wrong and unacceptable, but not irreversible.

“It’s not too late to save this generation from the scourge of war,” Guterres said.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has said the assault is meant to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine, where pro-Russian separatists have been fighting the government for nearly eight years. The U.S., however, said ahead of time that Russia would try to justify an invasion by falsely claiming that the rebel-held areas were under attack.

The U.N. said Thursday it was relocating some of its roughly 1,500 staffers in Ukraine. However, Guterres reiterated that the U.N. will continue providing aid to people in the country, “regardless of who or where they are.”

___

BRUSSELS — Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said European Union leaders need to adopt sanctions that will be strong enough to impact the Russian economy and the country’s military industrial complex.

“We don’t need sanctions that bark, we need sanctions that bite,” De Croo said upon his arrival at an urgent meeting of EU leaders in Brussels to discuss a new package of measures targeting Russia.

De Croo said the main goal of the sanctions should be to make it hard for Russian financial institutions to access international markets.

Asked whether Russia should be expelled from the Swift payment system financial system that moves money from bank to bank around the world, De Croo said he is open for discussions on that topic.

___

OTTAWA, Ontario — Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he spoke with President Zelenskyy and says Canada is imposing more severe sanctions.

The sanctions will target 58 people and entities connected to Russia, including members of that country’s elite and their families, the paramilitary organization known as the Wagner Group and major Russian banks.

The measures, announced Thursday after Trudeau attended a virtual G-7 meeting, will also affect members of the Russian Security Council, including key cabinet ministers.

Canada is also cancelling existing export permits for Russia and will not issue new ones.

Trudeau also says the federal government will be prioritizing immigration applications for Ukrainians who want to come to Canada and is launching a dedicated telephone line for anyone who has any urgent questions about immigrating from Ukraine.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — An adviser to Ukrainian president says that Ukraine has lost control over the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant after a fierce battle.

Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said the condition of the plant’s facilities, a confinement shelter and storage of nuclear waste is unknown.

A nuclear reactor in then-Soviet Ukraine exploded in April 1986, spewing radioactive waste across Europe in the world’s worst nuclear disaster. The exploded reactor has been covered by a protective shelter to prevent radiation leak and the entire plant has been decommissioned.

Podolyak said that after “absolutely senseless attack of the Russians in this direction, it is impossible to say that the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe.”

He charged that Russia may mount provocations there and described the situation as “one of the most serious threats to Europe today.”

___

NEW DELHI, India — Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi phoned Russian President Vladimir Putin late Thursday night and appealed for an “immediate cessation of violence,” his office said in a statement.

Modi called for efforts to return to diplomatic discussions, saying the “differences between Russia and the NATO group can only be resolved through honest and sincere dialogue.”

Modi also expressed concern over Indian citizens in Ukraine - officials earlier in the day said some 4,000 out of the 20,000 Indian nationals had been evacuated with efforts on to bring the rest back home.

The conversation between the two leaders comes hours after the Ukraine envoy in New Delhi urged Modi to contact Putin, saying the country “has a special relationship with Russia and New Delhi can play a more active role in controlling the situation.”

___

WARSAW — Some of the first refugees from Ukraine have arrived in European Union member Poland by road and rail.

A scheduled train from Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine arrived Thursday afternoon in the Polish town of Przemysl, near Ukraine’s western border, carrying a few hundred passengers.

The passengers of various ages, arriving with bags and backpacks, told The Associated Press they were fleeing war. Some live in Poland and were returning urgently from visits to their homeland.

The chief of Poland’s border guards, Gen. Tomasz Praga, said there was a visible increase in the number of people wanting to cross into Poland.

Officials said Poland has prepared at least eight centers with food, medical care and places to rest.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that “innocent people are being killed” in Ukraine and appealed to the Poles to extend every possible assistance to the Ukrainians who have found themselves in need of help.

___

NAIROBI, Kenya — The African Union chair is urging an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine “to preserve the world from the consequences of planetary conflict.”

The statement by Senegal President Macky Sall and AU Commission chair Moussa Faki Mahamat also calls on Russia to respect Ukraine’s territorial integrity and international law, expressing “extreme concern at the very serious and dangerous situation.”

Few among Africa’s 54 countries have publicly reacted to the invasion.

___

PRISTINA, Kosovo - Kosovo leaders on Thursday rejected Russian President Vladimir Putin’s claim of similarities with Ukraine’s eastern rebel provinces.

Kosovo’s president, prime minister and other senior ministers issued a joint statement denouncing Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

“The massive and unprovoked attack against Ukraine’s cities and villages is one of the most dangerous hits made to the architecture of the international security built after World War II,” said the statement.

Kosovo declared independence in 2008 after a bloody conflict with Serbia years earlier left more than 10,000 people dead and triggered a NATO intervention. Pristina’s government is recognized by the United States and most EU nations, but Belgrade has refused to recognize its independence and relies on support from Russia and China in its bid to retain claims on the territory.

“Dictator Putin’s effort to refer to the Kosovo case and draw parallel are totally unstable, abusive and an attempt to camouflage the lack of any base or reason for the barbarous attack of its forces against a sovereign state,” said the statement.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he would aim to cut Russia off from the U.K.’s financial markets as he announced a new set of sanctions in response to President Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.

The sanctions include freezing the assets of all major Russian banks, including VTB Bank, the nation’s second-biggest bank, Johnson said Thursday. Britain also plans to bar Russian companies and the Russian government from raising money on U.K. markets.

Britain will also ban the export of a wide range of high-tech products, including semiconductors, to Russia and bar the nation’s flagship airline, Aeroflot, from landing at U.K. airports.

The slate of sanctions comes days after Johnson was criticized for acting too cautiously in response to Russian aggression earlier this week.

Ukraine’s ambassador to the U.K., Vadym Prystaiko, earlier called on world leaders to ban trade in Russian oil and gas and block foreign investment in the country.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian Defense Ministry has formally confirmed that its forces have moved into Ukraine from Crimea.

Until Thursday's statement Russia had said only that it unleashed a barrage of air and missile strikes on Ukrainian air bases, air defense batteries and other military facilities.

The ministry said it has destroyed a total of 83 Ukrainian military facilities. Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov confirmed that Russian ground troops advanced toward the city of Kherson northwest of the Crimea peninsula.

Kherson sits on water reservoir used in the past to provide the bulk of fresh water for Crimea until Ukraine cut it with a dam in 2017 in response to Moscow’s 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine. Konashenkov said Thursday's move allows the resumption of the water supply to Crimea.

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has made a televised address to the nation condemning the Russian attack on Ukraine sharply and vowed that Russian President Vladimir Putin “will not win.”

Scholz said Thursday evening that “we will not accept this violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty by Russia” and vowed to imply severe sanction together with Germany’s allies.

Regarding the military attack on Ukraine, Scholz stressed that Putin “is on his own. It was not the Russian people who decided to go to war. He alone bears full responsibility for it. This war is Putin’s war.”

The chancellor said that “Putin should not underestimate NATO’s determination to defend all its members. That applies explicitly to our NATO partners in the Baltic States, in Poland and in Romania, in Bulgaria and in Slovakia. Without ifs and buts. Germany and its allies know how to protect themselves.”

___

UNITED NATIONS -- A senior U.S. official says the U.N. Security Council is expected to vote Friday on a resolution condemning Russia in the strongest terms possible for attacking Ukraine and demanding the immediate withdrawal of all its forces — knowing that Russia will veto the legally binding measure.

The United States believes it is very important to put the resolution to a vote to underscore Russia’s international isolation, and emphasizes that the veto will be followed quickly by a resolution in the 193-member U.N. General Assembly where there are no vetoes, the official said Thursday. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.

“This is a first step in how the U.N. responds to this premeditated war of choice that Russia has chosen to take, and we will see action in the General Assembly in the coming days,” he said, adding that it is part of a much broader, coordinated response that includes steps the Biden administration and its allies are taking.

The resolution is drafted under Article 7 of the U.N. Charter, which can be enforced militarily, according to the official.

___

By Edith M. Lederer

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin says he was “forced” to order a military action in Ukraine because of the Western refusal to heed Russian security demands.

Speaking at a Kremlin meeting with businesspeople Thursday, Putin said the military action was a “forced measure” that stemmed from rising security risks for Russia.

He said that he was surprised by the West’s “intransigence” regarding Moscow’s security demands. “I was surprised that didn’t move a millimeter on any issue,” he said. “They have left us no chance to act differently.”

Turning to Western sanctions, he said “Russia remains part of the global economy and isn’t going to hurt the system that it is part of as long as it remains there.”

“Our partners should realize that and not set a goal to push us out of the system,” he said in an apparent warning to the West.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensnkyy has urged Moscow to end hostilities, adding that Russian airborne troops have been checked outside Kyiv.

“It wasn’t Ukraine that chose the path of war, but Ukraine is offering to go back to the path of peace,” he said Thursday.

He said a Russian airborne force in Hostomel airport outside Kyiv, which has a big runway, has been stopped and is being destroyed.

The Ukrainian leader said many Russian warplanes and armored vehicles were destroyed but didn’t give numbers. He also said an unspecified number of Russian troops was captured.

He said a difficult situation is developing in Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city just over 20 kilometers from the Russian border. In the north the Russians are slowly advancing toward Chernihiv, Zelenskyy said.

He appealed to global leaders, saying that “if you don’t help us now, if you fail to offer strong assistance to Ukraine, tomorrow the war will knock on your door.”

___

BERLIN — Group of Seven leaders have strongly condemned Russia's attack on Ukraine.

The German government, which currently heads the G7, put out a joint statement after a virtual leaders’ meeting Thursday, vowing to bring “forward severe and coordinated economic and financial sanctions.”

It called “on all partners and members of the international community to condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms, to stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine, and raise their voice against this blatant violation of the fundamental principles of international peace and security.”

___

HELSINKI — Baltic NATO members Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have received the first batches of U.S. military troops and equipment promised this week by U.S. President Joe Biden in the wake of the Ukraine crisis.

An undisclosed number of U.S. F-35 fighters landed Thursday afternoon at NATO’s air base in Amari, near Estonia’s capital Tallinn, Estonian media reported. F-35 fighters were reported to have arrived also at NATO’s air base in Lithuania.

On Wednesday evening, the first 40 American soldiers from the 173rd Airborne Brigade arrived in Latvia, Latvian media reported.

___

A senior U.S. defense official says Thursday's attack by Russia appears to be the first phase in what will likely be a multiple phased, large-scale invasion.

The official said it began around 9:30 p.m. U.S. eastern time, with land- and sea-based missile launches. The official said that roughly more than 100 missiles, primarily short-range ballistic missiles, but also medium-range ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, surface-to-air missiles and sea-launched missiles, were launched in the first few hours of the attack.

The official said the Russians are moving on three axes: From Crimea to Kherson, from Belarus toward Kyiv, and from the northeast to Kharkiv.

The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it’s not clear how many Russian troops are in Ukraine now, and the main targets of the air assault have been barracks, ammunition warehouses, and 10 airfields. The official said Russian ground forces began to move in to Ukraine from Belarus around 5 a.m. Eastern time.

___

By Lolita C. Baldor in Washington D.C.

___

LONDON — Hundreds of protesters have gathered in London to urge Britain and other democracies to step up action against Russia.

Ukrainians living in the U.K. and activists gathered outside Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Downing Street office Thursday, singing the Ukrainian national anthem.

Natalia Ravlyuk, who helped organize the protest, said they wanted the “toughest sanctions and total isolation of Russia now.”

“We ... feel betrayed by democratic states because we have been talking about this war for eight years,” she said. “They just need to wake up and stop Putin now.”

Earlier dozens of protesters also gathered outside the Russian embassy in London.

___

UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations migration agency says it's ready to respond to emerging humanitarian needs in Ukraine.

Antonio Vitorino, director general of the Geneva-based International Organization for Migration, said: “IOM ... is committed to staying and delivering vital assistance to the people of Ukraine.”

“Eight years of conflict in Ukraine have displaced over 1.4 million people who now rely on assistance to meet their daily needs,” he said in a statement. “This escalation will only deepen the humanitarian needs and compound the suffering of millions of families.”

—-

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: Adds item from Ukraine diplomat in Japan. ; With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220224ei2o00jah


Europe has lost its naivety in relation to Putin's regime - Karins
Krišs Jānis Kairis
232 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 17:34 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, Feb 25 (LETA) - Europe has lost its naivety in relation to the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin, said Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins (New Unity) after the European Council meeting today.

In his words, this was visible when all member states discussed further sanctions against Putin's regime. The European Commission is already preparing the next package of sanctions.

Karins is confident that Putin's regime should be internationally isolated from the world and the sanction's regime should achieve this goal.

The prime minister said that the EU leaders have agreed on further harsh sanctions that will affect the financial, energy and transport sectors, access to different technologies, Putin's administration.

The EU leaders also decided to leave the "EU doors open for Ukraine".

The EU leaders also strictly condemned Belarusian engagement in Russia's military aggression and called to prepare another package of sanctions that will target also Belarus.

The EU leaders agreed to continue support to Ukraine and its residents, providing political, financial assistance, humanitarian aid and supply military equipment.

As reported, Russia started to invade Ukraine early Thursday morning.

Responding to Russia's invasion in Ukraine, EU leaders wrapped up an emergency summit early Friday with agreement to punish Moscow with "severe" sanctions targeting its financial, energy and transport sectors.

39444343333745312D413332322D3433

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220225ei2p00461


The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have...
7945 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 21:33 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.

A statement from the MoD said: "Russian forces have highly likely captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Workers have reportedly been detained by Russian troops."

In an intelligence update just after 1am, the MoD also said it is "unlikely" Russia achieved its planned objectives for the first day of its military action in Ukraine.

"The Ukrainian Armed Forces have reportedly halted Russia's advance towards Chernihiv," the MoD statement said.

"Fighting probably continues on the outskirts of the city.

"It is unlikely that Russia has achieved its planned Day 1 military objectives. Ukrainian forces have presented fierce resistance across all axes of Russia's advance."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine marks the "beginning of a new era" as she outlined a package of further sanctions on Russia.

Ms von der Leyen said on Twitter: "First, this package includes financial sanctions, targeting 70% of the Russian banking market and key state owned companies, including in defence.

"Second, we target the energy sector, a key economic area which especially benefits the Russian state. Our export ban will hit the oil sector by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.

"Third: we ban the sale of aircrafts and equipment to Russian airlines.

"Fourth, we are limiting Russia's access to crucial technology, such as semiconductors or cutting-edge software.

"Finally: visas. Diplomats and related groups and business people will no longer have privileged access to the European Union.

"These events mark the beginning of a new era. Putin is trying to subjugate a friendly European country. He is trying to redraw the map of Europe by force. He must and he will fail."

The Ukrainian foreign minister has said "horrific rocket strikes" have hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

"Last time our capital experienced anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany," he tweeted.

"Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Severe all ties. Kick Russia out of (everywhere)."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Twitter the UK has been "true to our word" that Russia's invasion would result in the "toughest sanctions we have ever imposed".

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russia's assault on Ukraine is "barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life".

She tweeted: "Solidarity with (Ukrainian foreign minister) @DmytroKuleba and the Ukrainian people.

"Putin's assault on Ukraine is barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life. We will continue to hold Putin to account and remain steadfast in our support. £StandwithUkraine".

Mr Kuleba said in a tweet just before 4am on Friday that "horrific rocket strikes" hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions imposed on Russia "is a show of strength" from other nations.

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme the package of sanctions are "robust, massive and unprecedented".

He said: "I think equally important is the message that we are sending out. The first one is solidarity with Ukrainian people and Ukrainian leaders, who are suffering right now.

"The second one is condemnation, clear condemnation of the action of Russia and its leader.

"Thirdly, that unity of the West, unity of those that share the same values, not only inside the European Union, but with the United Kingdom, with the US, with Canada, with Japan, Australia and beyond.

"This is a show of strength on our side."

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions on Russia will have a "huge impact".

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme they will "touch the heart" of the country's economy.

He added: "The measures we are taking today will have a huge impact on Russia, it impacts 70% of the banking system.

"It touched the heart of the state-owned companies that financed the war effort."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said it is believed Russia intends to invade the whole of Ukraine.

Asked if it is his view the Russians are intent on taking Kyiv and removing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky from power, he told Sky News: "It's definitely our view that the Russians intend to invade the whole of Ukraine."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would expect Russian President Vladimir Putin to be "held to account" if he committed a war crime.

He told Sky News: "If President Putin commits a war crime, then, just as I do if I were to commit a war crime, I should expect to be held to account."

Asked if Mr Putin's actions already constituted a war crime, he said: "I'm not, I'm afraid, an international lawyer.

"I couldn't tell you the difference between breaking international law insofar as directing your forces to invade another country, versus a war crime - eg. things like genocide, and indeed, you know, torture, etc.

"I wouldn't want to speculate the differences. What I would say is he's clearly broken international law, he's occupying or trying to occupy a sovereign country who made one mistake in his eyes. Their mistake in his eyes was not to choose the Kremlin as a way for their future. And that's all they have done."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said "it doesn't matter how much effort we made" to prevent an invasion of Ukraine because Vladimir Putin "has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year".

He told Sky News: "I wrote an article in January that President Putin was beyond this type of persuasion. President Putin, I said and got criticised at the time, there was a whiff of Munich about President Putin.

"It wasn't the bit about appeasement I was referring to, I was referring that in ... Munich in 1938 Adolf Hitler all along had a plan to invade parts of Europe and all the diplomacy was about a straw man sort of attempt by him to buy time.

"Putin has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year, and I think that's why, you know, it doesn't matter how much effort we made - and we all made unbelievable amounts of effort, we saw President Macron go, my Prime Minister regularly spoke to Putin - didn't matter.

"As we're seeing today, it's not about the Donbas, it's not about a minority, it is about a greed to subsume Ukraine into the Russian Federation, or indeed for President Putin to land-grab."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia had "failed to deliver" on its "day one" objectives.

He told Sky News: "Our assessment as of this morning is that Russia has not taken any of its major objectives, in fact it is behind its hoped-for timetable.

"They've lost over 450 personnel. One of the significant airports they were trying to capture with their elite Spetsnaz has failed to be taken. In fact, the Ukrainians have taken it back.

"So, I think contrary to great Russian claims and indeed President Putin's sort of vision that somehow the Ukrainians would be liberated and would be flocking to his cause - he's got that completely wrong. The Russian army has failed to deliver on day one its main objective."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin's legacy will be "isolation", adding that "diplomacy is absolutely off the table" at this stage.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I think President Putin is slowly but surely building a wall around himself. He will be isolated.

"I think, you know, his legacy is not what he hopes it will be. I think his legacy will be isolation."

He added: "I think at the moment diplomacy is absolutely off the table. We tried. I went to Moscow, Liz Truss went to Moscow, (the) Prime Minister spoke regularly to President Putin and met him on a number of occasions, as did practically every president of, or prime minister of, senior countries in the West.

"So, you know, I'm not sure what more diplomacy would achieve at this very moment in time."

He added: "I think it's important to have a diplomatic link, it's important for us to give messages to the Kremlin direct."

Boris Johnson committed to providing further support to Ukraine after receiving an update from president Volodymyr Zelensky on the "terrible developments" in Kyiv.

A Downing Street statement said: "The Prime Minister spoke to President Zelensky this morning to express his solidarity with Ukraine.

"President Zelensky updated the Prime Minister on the most recent Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes on Ukrainian cities and the terrible developments in Kyiv in the early hours of this morning.

"The Prime Minister assured President Zelensky that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing. He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia's campaign of violence, and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.

"The Prime Minister committed to provide further UK support to Ukraine in the coming days as the people of Ukraine and the world continue to demonstrate that Putin cannot act with impunity."

President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukraine demands "effective counteraction" from allies against Russia including further sanctions after talking with Boris Johnson.

The Ukrainian leader tweeted: "Held talks with PM @BorisJohnson. Reported on the course of (Ukraine's) defence and insidious attacks on Kyiv by the aggressor. Today (Ukraine) needs the support of partners more than ever.

"We demand effective counteraction to the Russian Federation. Sanctions must be further strengthened."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said British troops will not be sent to fight "directly" with the Russians.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I said very clearly about a month ago that we are not going to be sending British troops to fight directly with Russian troops.

"We are going to hold the line in Nato. We've always supported Ukraine's application to Nato over the last 15 years, not every country has wanted them to join.

"We've done the next best thing, which is train over 20,000 Ukrainians, provided them with lethal capabilities, which they are using right now.

"But I'm not putting British troops directly to fight Russian troops. That would trigger a European war, because we are a Nato country, and Russia would therefore be attacking Nato."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said he believes "further financial restrictions" against Russia are needed.

Speaking on Good Morning Britain, Sir Keir said he supported the Government's package of sanctions announced on Thursday but called for extra measures.

He said the UK should "break open" shell companies in Britain providing support to Vladimir Putin and target Russia via Swift, an international financial system.

Reacting to news that Russian troops were nearing Kyiv, Sir Keir said the situation was "extremely serious" and Britain should be "absolutely clear" in its stance.

"We have to stand together with our allies, particularly Nato, and it's very important we must stand together as one United Kingdom, and therefore yesterday was significant in Parliament because all political parties spoke with one voice in our support for Ukraine and our support for Nato.

"In relation to the sanctions, I thought what the Government put forward earlier this week was not strong enough. They came forward yesterday with a stronger package and I was able to say that we, the opposition, will support those further sanctions.

"I do want to go further. I think that we do need further financial restrictions, particularly the Swift mechanism. I also think we've got to break open the shell companies we have here in the UK that are providing financial support for Putin."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said political parties across Parliament will "not be divided" in the response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking on ITV's Good Morning Britain, he said Vladimir Putin had "calculated the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs" and said MPs must stand together against him.

"Putin wants to see division among our allies, among our Nato members, and among political parties back here in the United Kingdom, and we are not going to be divided," he said.

But he added that there needs to be a "change" in the way Mr Putin is handled.

"The combined package in response to this, financial measures, sanctions, etc, must not only isolate Russia but must be capable of crippling its ability to function."

"He added: "We are talking about Russia invading a European country here. It's as serious as it gets. We must have an absolutely full response."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian President Vladimir Putin "won't stop" after invading Ukraine.

He said the decision not to "put British service personnel in direct fighting" was not about "risk", but to avoid triggering a "war across Europe".

"It's not about risk, as much as I care for my personnel. It's not about risk," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"It's about if we were to directly attack Russian aircraft, we would have a war across Europe."

He added: "I have said continually for a long time, as has Britain, and the Prime Minister has supported this position, that Putin is not rational.

"He is trying to invade Ukraine. He won't stop after he's ... with Ukraine. He will use everything in the Baltic states. He doesn't believe the Baltic states are really countries.

"And we will have to stand up to it. Now, I cannot trigger a European war and I won't trigger a European war. But what I will do is help Ukraine fight every street with every piece of equipment we can get to them, and we will support them, and that is the reality."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about Nato and the party itself has "never wavered" in its support for the alliance.

Asked on Sky News about the former Labour leader's stance on stopping the expansion of Nato, Sir Keir said: "Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about that but the Labour Party's policy never shifted under his leadership and I've been very clear."

Sir Keir added that the "collective failure of the West" in the past response to Vladimir Putin may have emboldened the Russian president but described the party's support for Nato as "unshakeable".

He said: "I do think that the failure, the collective failure, of you know, the West... in relation to action he's taken in the past, so many examples - Georgia, Crimea, Donbas - have given him the sense that as I say the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs.

"We have to be clear that that isn't the case here in relation to Ukraine and that that response package from the rest of the world will be so strong that it will not only isolate Russia but also cripple its ability to function."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain has been asked to provide more support to defend Ukrainian airspace.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "So first of all, anti-air is being supplied to the Ukrainians, and has been.

"A number of the Baltic states, the United States provided Stinger missiles, which has brought down clearly a number of Russian aircraft.

"The ability to defend their airspace from (the) ground has been enabled. And (of) course, there is more to do and... we've been asked and a number of other nations for that.

"But... to do a no-fly zone... I would have to put British fighter jets directly against Russian fighter jets. Nato would have to effectively declare war on Russia because that's what you would do."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said if Boris Johnson brought forward tougher sanctions on Russia, they would be voted through Parliament "very, very quickly" with the Labour Party's support.

He also strengthened his appeal for Russia to be banned from international financial system Swift, describing the move as a "now decision" which should be made as soon as possible.

"That is a now decision and the Labour Party would support it in full. We think it should happen now," he told BBC Breakfast.

Sir Keir called for shell companies in the UK supporting Vladimir Putin's regime to be targeted, saying there was "frustration" in Parliament that the Government hasn't "got on with this".

"What I've said to the Prime Minister is whatever criticism I've got for you, not having done it now, do it now. If you bring forward legislation, I said to the Prime Minister on Monday, we the Labour Party will vote for it.

"We could bring this through Parliament very, very quickly because those shell companies are hiding assets that are supporting Putin and we have to get our house in order and there's such a will in Parliament at the moment."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain will "work all day" to try to get the Swift international payment system "turned off for Russia".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Britain wants the Swift system to be turned off for Russia. But unfortunately the Swift system is not in our control - it's not a unilateral decision."

Mr Wallace said the system is used "to move money around", explaining: "When you pay Russia for its gas, it probably goes through the Swift system, for example. It is based in Belgium. It has a number of partners that control it, or nation states."

He added: "We want it switched off. Other countries do not. We only have so many options. We are going to work all day to try and get it (switched off for Russia)."

An urgent question on the military situation in Ukraine will take place in the House of Commons from 11am.

It has been tabled by Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough).

The House of Lords will be debating Ukraine and Russia from 10am.

The Government has been pressed to give an update on China's position on Ukraine and on missiles "arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise" peace in Bosnia.

As the Commons began a Friday sitting, Conservative MP Sir Bernard Jenkin (Harwich and North Essex) said: "I appreciate there is an urgent question on Ukraine later on, but I wonder if the Government has given any indication about whether they are going to make a statement about our relations with China, given that China has done nothing to condemn the Ukrainian incursion, and whether the Government will also make a statement about what is happening in the Balkans where I understand that missiles are arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise the Dayton Agreement and create a new crisis there."

Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle said he was sure the Government would take Sir Bernard's comments "very seriously".

Sir Lindsay said: "I have been given no notification that anything is forthcoming. What I would say is that we do have the urgent question and I am sure that he may be able to press the minister if he were able to catch my eye."

Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough) has tabled an urgent question on the latest information about the invasion of Ukraine, due to be answered at 11am Friday.

Defence minister James Heappey is expected to respond to the urgent question granted in the Commons on Ukraine at 11am.

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries welcomed Uefa's decision to strip St Petersburg of the Champions League final over the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

She said: "I welcome Uefa's decisive action to strip St Petersburg of staging this year's Champions League Final.

"Russia must not be allowed to exploit sporting and cultural events on the world stage to legitimise its unprovoked, premeditated and needless attack against a sovereign democratic state."

Defence minister Baroness Goldie said there is currently no indication Russia intends to "directly target" UK or Nato forces, but they "remain on guard", with cyber attacks expected.

Opening a debate in the House of Lords, Lady Goldie said 1,000 troops are on stand-by to deal with the exodus of people from Ukraine.

She told peers: "It goes without saying that our thoughts and prayers remain with the Ukrainian people, many of whom have family and friends in the UK, and will now find themselves under attack for no reason whatsoever.

"But at the same time we remain on guard. While there is no indication at present that Russia intends to directly target British or Nato forces, we should expect their forces and proxies to launch cyber attacks and misinformation campaigns, seeking opportunities to embarrass the UK or Nato and to undermine our resolve.

"We stand ready to protect our country against any threats, whether conventional or in cyberspace.

"However, I'm afraid there's no disguising the fact that a dark new chapter has opened in our history."

The UK will send further armed forces to Estonia "earlier than planned" to reinforce the Nato ally in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Responding to an Urgent Question, Defence minister James Heappey told the Commons: "In addition to the Royal Tank Regiment battle group that has been in place in Estonia for the last six months, the Royal Welsh battlegroup will be arriving in Estonia earlier than planned to double up our force levels and those doubled-up force levels remain indefinitely.

"They will be augmented by the headquarters of 12 Mechanised Brigade, meaning that the United Kingdom will have an armoured brigade in Estonia reassuring one of our closest Nato allies."

Nato troops must not enter Ukraine because of the "risk of miscalculation" leading to "existential" threat, a minister has said.

Defence minister James Heappey told MPs that the Government would "explore all that we can do to support the Ukrainians themselves over the next few days".

He added: "But we must all in this House be clear that British and Nato troops should not, must not, play an active role in Ukraine.

"We must all be clear what the risk of miscalculation could be and how existential that could very quickly become if people miscalculate and things escalate unnecessarily."

A software engineer and Masters student in Kyiv has said that Ukrainians are "scared, but hopeful and extremely angry" as Russia targets the Ukrainian capital.

Olesia, 22, has been sheltering with friends and family in her home and said she has heard sirens go off four times on February 25.

She told the PA news agency: "We hosted some people, because our house is more reliable, and are hosting family and friends here. We've heard sirens that indicate air alarm, I believe, four times today...

"We have some acquaintances in the part of the city where heavy shelling was coming just now, glad to know they're okay.

"People are scared, but hopeful and extremely angry. We trust our military, we believe we will withstand the attacks, some of my relatives have gone to the territorial defence, I'm considering that too."

She added that she wants the "international public to realise this is a threat to world's safety, not just Ukraine" and for governments across the globe "to ban Russia from Swift and to shelter Ukrainian sky, to provide military and financial help to Ukraine".

Conservative MP Peter Bone asked the minister to update the House on whether the UK and Western allies will institute a no-fly zone on Ukraine.

The MP for Wellingborough said: "We are seeing history repeat itself, as a powerful country, headed by a mad man, is extending its territorial boundaries. First by annexing regions of sovereign countries and then invading those countries. This, of course, is what happened in the 1930s and led to World War."

He added: "The Ukraine ambassador to the United Kingdom has asked for us and our allies to institute a no-fly zone of Ukraine. As the ambassador said, people are dying as we speak.

"This action will be a significant and a real help for the people of Ukraine. Yesterday, when I asked the Prime Minister about this request, he indicated it was not ruled out. Could the minister update the House on this request for help?"

Defence minister James Heappey said a no-fly zone is "somewhat difficult to implement in a hostile airspace against a peer adversary".

He noted eyes must be open to the reality that "in such an event, Nato jets would not possibly, but would most certainly probably, come into a combat situation with Russian jets."

Mr Heappey went on: "The risk of miscalculation and escalation and the triggering of Article 5 could not be understated in those circumstances. In the air domain, the risk of miscalculation is greater because things are happening at Mach 2. And there is no time for political calibration."

Shadow defence secretary John Healey pressed the Government on whether the UK will provide Ukraine with short-range handheld anti-tank missiles.

He said: "On Wednesday, the Prime Minister told the House the UK will be shortly providing a further package of military support to Ukraine. We understand the minister's comments about detail, but has this further military assistance being provided?

"The minister knows he has Labour's full support for this."

Mr Healey said the "UK's short-range handheld anti-tank missiles are working well", adding: "He knows that the Ukrainians need more of these urgently to defend Kiev and their other cities. So, can he confirm that he is willing to go that bit further?"

Mr Healey concluded his remarks by saying: "We've taken peace and security in Europe for granted since the end of the Cold War. We can no longer do that.

"I fear that we will be dealing with the consequences of this Russian invasion now for years to come."

Responding to shadow defence secretary John Healey, Defence minister James Heappey said anti-tank missiles had "already proven to be invaluable" in the conflict in Ukraine.

Mr Heappey said the weapons were "high on our list of things that we are looking to supply", adding: "They are unsubstantiated reports, but nonetheless we are aware of the number of circumstances in which they have been used to defeat Russian armour, and we are therefore very aware of their utility both in open battle during the initial phase of the conflict but also in the urban domain in any resistance or insurgency that might follow."

The Defence minister also shared insight that Russia's invasion had not been as successful as planned.

He said: "Suffice to say, we are pretty certain that in the Kremlin last night there will have been some pretty urgent reflections on the speed of the advance compared to what they anticipated.

"I think that Russian people should be calling President Putin and the kleptocracy that surrounds him out on that, because young Russian men and women are being sacrificed in the name of President Putin's hubris."

A total of 1,000 UK troops are on stand-by to support Ukraine's neighbours with refugee responses, a Defence minister has said.

Labour MP for Pontypridd Alex Davies-Jones asked: "Will the 1,000 UK troops that he has placed on stand-by to help with the humanitarian crisis now be urgently deployed?"

Defence minister James Heappey replied: "Just to be very clear - because I think unless I am almost doing her a dis-service - I might have understood her question to be will the 1,000 troops go into Ukraine as they did into Kabul into the summer to facilitate the egress of Ukrainians.

"I am afraid she will be disappointed. That is just not something that could realistically be done. This is a highly kinetic combat situation and the probability of Nato troops being caught up in combat with Russian armed forces is far too high and would lead to huge escalation.

"The 1,000 troops that are on stand-by are there to support Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Poland with the expected humanitarian challenges that they will face as people make their way out of Ukraine."

Conservative MP Dr Luke Evans (Bosworth) asked: "What sanctions and steps will we take to make sure that Belarus feel the pain for what they are doing?"

Mr Heappey replied: "The Belarusian ambassador has been summoned to the Foreign Office today to have the views of Her Majesty's Government shared with them. Belarus has also been included in the sanctions regime."

Downing Street said "nothing is off the table" in support of Ukraine.

A spokesman for Boris Johnson said: "We remain firmly behind Ukraine and will continue to support them."

The spokesman said he could not go into detail over the support being provided but the UK had "talked about protective equipment, helmets, body armour, as well as some of the defensive lethal aid that we've provided in terms of anti-tank weaponry".

The UK Government is working "incredibly closely" with Ukraine's neighbours to support those fleeing the country, No 10 said.

"You'll be aware that we deployed an extra 350 troops to Poland a fortnight ago to help exactly with that task," a spokesman for Boris Johnson said and he pointed towards the Home Secretary's announcement on visa extensions.

Boris Johnson is expected to raise the prospect of banning Russia from the Swift payment system with allies again on Friday, Downing Street said.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister was asked whether the UK would be pushing for the sanction and he said: "You'll have heard the Prime Minister's comments in the House on this yesterday, we will continue to work with allies to try and cut Russia off from Swift.

"You'll be aware that the PM raised this in his call with G7 leaders yesterday, I expect he will raise it at the Nato leaders meeting again today."

The spokesman would not be drawn on which countries were holding out on the proposal but he said: "We've set out why we want to ensure that we can do this, as the Prime Minister said yesterday to ensure that we send a clear message to Vladimir Putin that his efforts will not succeed and to ensure that we can deal a severe blow to the Russian economy."

"As I say, the Prime Minister will raise it again later today," he added.

Conservative MP Nickie Aiken (Cities of London and Westminster) wondered if President Vladimir Putin may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression.

She said: "As I said goodbye to my own children this morning and wish them a good day in school, my thoughts turned to the mums in Ukraine who now fear for the future of their own children.

"And, as we saw in the newspaper today, and I was taken by the photos in the Daily Mail of children, primary school children taking shelter in in bomb shelters, if President Putin has failed to listen to the major international diplomatic efforts, if he has failed to listen to Nato, to the EU, and the Ukrainian people, does my right honourable friend think he may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression?"

Defence minister James Heappey said: "I hope so, but I fear that he's not the sort of man that does and that's why we need to do everything we can to empower those people with all the information we can get them about the complete disregard that President Putin has for the lives of their boys and girls."

Mr Heappey said he was "struck" by reports of the Russian use of mobile crematorium to follow their front lines as whilst colleagues back from Iraq and Afghanistan were buried in flag-draped coffins, "Putin just sends around a mobile crematorium and burns them".

This is a "social media rage war", defence minister James Heappey has said.

Mr Heappey's comments came as Labour former minister Dame Diana Johnson pressed the minister on whether the Government will be recording the use of sexual violence in warfare.

She said: "I wanted to just press the minister a little bit more on war crimes. I'm very pleased to hear that they are being recorded and monitored.

"I wondered, in particular, if the minister could just say something about the use of sexual violence in warfare, and how his Government will be recording that, and then what exactly will happen next, just so I understand what the process will be?"

Mr Heappey replied: "It's no consolation to the people of Ukraine but within the British armed forces we've given a huge amount of thought to how we must operate in future conflict very mindful of women, peace and security, and the challenges that far too many women and children face in conflict broadly pursued between men.

"I'm not sure, I'm afraid, that there is that much regard for that being given by the Russians. But I would come back to it if I have any information to the contrary."

The minister insisted war crimes will be monitored "as best we can", adding: "As she's seeing from all of the open source intelligence that's available on social media, this is a very different type of war to even Gulf War One and Two. This is a social media rage war. And these outrages are often there."

Boris Johnson will host the leaders of the V4 countries in London next month to discuss the Ukraine crisis.

No 10 said the Prime Minister will hold a meeting with the leaders of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia on March 8 to "discuss the situation in Ukraine and the UK's support for security in the region".

More sanctions are needed to hit Russia, including targeting Vladimir Putin's inner circle, Boris Johnson has agreed with the leaders of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF).

The JEF is a UK-led group comprising Iceland, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Latvia and the UK which works together to deliver forces at high readiness, across a range of roles.

A No 10 spokesman said the Prime Minister spoke to the leaders on Friday.

The spokesman said: "He reiterated that this was a defining moment in European history, with global implications. The Prime Minister said he believed the Ukrainian people would continue to fight and had done so gallantly in the recent hours and days.

"The leaders agreed that more sanctions were needed, including focusing on President Putin's inner circle, building on the measures that had already been agreed."

Mr Johnson said more support must be given to Ukraine "as a matter of the greatest urgency".

Maxim Yermalovich, the ambassador to the UK from Russia-ally Belarus, has arrived at the Foreign Office after being summoned over the Ukrainian invasion.

Russia has said the Defence Secretary could have used "similar adjectives" to describe Boris Johnson when he told troops that Vladimir Putin had gone "full tonto".

Ben Wallace made the unguarded comments while chatting to serving military personnel earlier this week.

Maria Zakharova, Russia's foreign affairs ministry spokesperson, was asked about the comments by Sky News at a press briefing on Friday.

According to the translation on Sky News she said it was "surprising that such evaluations are given by (the) defence minister of the UK regarding authorities of a different state".

She said that "I think he could have thought up of similar adjectives... thinking of (the) British Prime Minister, if we talk about personal judgment."

The bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain "more than 50km from the centre of the city", the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said.

In an intelligence update posted about 3.30pm, the MoD said the Russian armoured forces had "opened a new route of advance towards Kyiv having failed to capture Chernihiv".

The report said there were "reports of sporadic clashes in the northern suburbs of Kyiv, which we continue to monitor" but that "the bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain more than 50km from the centre of the city".

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly urged Belarus to "stop supporting Russia's illegal and unprovoked" offensive in Ukraine after summoning Minsk's ambassador.

A Foreign Office statement added: "Belarus needs to desist from its support to Russia and respect Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty in line with its international obligations."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner said President Putin's actions in attacking Ukraine were "disgraceful".

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "It is absolutely heartbreaking to see the footage out of Ukraine, and the responsibility and the death and the bloodshed lies with Putin.

"He shouldn't have done this. He knows that he's broken international law.

"This is devastating to see what's happened here and the hand of history will not be kind to Putin and his regime for what they've done.

"It is really devastating to see what's happening.

"All of my thoughts are with the people of Ukraine and people who are watching that, and people in Russia who have strong links to family in Ukraine who are seeing this.

"It's disgraceful what Putin has done and he will be judged by his actions by the international community."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner welcomed the Prime Minister's vow to help Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "We should be working with our international allies and partners to support every Ukrainian who needs that support at the moment.

"They are in need, and we should be responding to that need."

She said she was proud to be British and to see the support shown for Ukrainians.

Ms Rayner said: "To see those pictures and to hear that statement for those soldiers that wouldn't give up when they were told to give up, 13 of them, and they all were killed, to see that and to see the defiance against that regime who was trying to use bloodshed to bring people to their knees.

"I'm incredibly proud of the Ukrainians and I'm proud I'm proud of what our country is doing to support their freedom and their right to exist.

Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg has said "the world will hold Russia and Belarus accountable for their actions".

Addressing a press briefing following a virtual meeting of Nato leaders, Mr Stoltenberg said: "We call on Russia to stop this senseless war immediately."

He warned that "the Kremlin's objectives are not limited to Ukraine" and that "we are facing a new normal in European security where Russia openly contests the European security order and uses force to pursue its objectives".

He said: "President Putin's decision to pursue his aggression against Ukraine is a terrible strategic mistake."

Mr Stoltenberg added that although significant sanctions had already been announced "we must stand ready to do more, even if it means we have to pay a price, because we are in this for the long haul".

The secretary-general said Nato had deployed thousands more troops to the eastern part of the alliance, and will "do what it takes to protect and defend every ally and every inch of Nato territory".

Britain's chief of defence intelligence has said that Russian forces are seeking to encircle the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, with a view to imposing a pro-Moscow regime.

Lieutenant General Sir Jim Hockenhull said the Ukrainian military was continuing to offer "strong resistance" in the face of the Russian advance.

"Russian forces continue to advance on two axes towards Kyiv.

"Their objective is to encircle the capital to secure control of the population and change the regime," he told reporters.

"Overnight Russian launched a concerted series of strikes on targets Kyiv. Ukrainian armed forces continue to offer strong resistance focusing on the defence of key cities throughout Ukraine."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng met with BP's chief executive Bernard Looney on Friday to discuss the company's 20% stake in Russia's state-backed oil giant Rosneft.

Mr Looney also sits on the Rosneft board, along with former BP boss Bob Dudley.

Rosneft's chief executive Igor Sechin - a close ally of Vladimir Putin - is on the US sanctions list.

A Whitehall source told the PA news agency: "BP left the meeting with no doubt about the strength of the Business Secretary's concern about their commercial interests in Russia."

Boris Johnson has told Nato leaders that "immediate action" must be taken to ban Russia from the Swift payment platform to "inflict maximum pain" on Vladimir Putin.

The Prime Minister attended a virtual meeting of the leaders on Friday afternoon and warned Nato leaders that Mr Putin was "engaging in a revanchist mission to overturn post-Cold War order", according to a No 10 spokesperson.

The spokesperson said the PM had "urged leaders to take immediate action against Swift to inflict maximum pain on President Putin and his regime"

Mr Johnson told the leaders "the UK would introduce sanctions against President Putin and foreign minister Sergei Lavrov imminently, on top of the sanctions package the UK announced yesterday", bringing the Government in line with measures announced by the EU.

The spokesperson said: "He warned the group that the Russian president's ambitions might not stop there and that this was a Euro-Atlantic crisis with global consequences."

No 10 said Boris Johnson told Nato leaders that the UK armed forces "stood ready for any further request" for further military support.

A Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister told a meeting of Nato leaders on Friday "that the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression".

The spokesperson said the PM told the meeting "Ukraine was showing strong resistance, he added that there could no normalisation of relations with Russia after this act".

"The Prime Minister outlined details of the UK's new offer to Nato across its eastern flank. The UK stood ready for any further request from Nato's Supreme Allied Commander Europe to go further with military support to Nato from UK Armed Forces, he said," according to the spokesperson.

"Nato should have primacy in the future of European security and it was vital that it was strengthened now, the Prime Minister added."

Western allies fear Russia could use thermobaric weapons against Ukrainian forces if they continue to hold up their advance.

Western officials believe Russian forces missed most of their day one objectives of the invasion and could resort to indiscriminate firing to make up ground.

One official said this could include thermobaric weapons which Russia is known to have in its armoury and has used in past conflicts - although they have not been seen so far on the battlefield in Ukraine.

"My fear would be that if they don't meet their timescale and objectives they would be indiscriminate in their use of violence," the official said.

Ireland's deputy premier Leo Varadkar has branded Vladimir Putin the "Hitler of the 21st century".

The Tanaiste acknowledged that sanctions such as the potential banning of Russia from the Swift payment network would have economic implications for Ireland.

But he said those consequences needed to be accepted given the situation in Ukraine.

"I don't think we're in that space where we can be concerned about the economic impact on Ireland when a democratic country in the European Union is being invaded and the attempt is being made to overthrow a democratic government there," he told RTE Radio One.

Mr Varadkar added: "The last time I can think of that happening in Europe is in the 1930s and I think we should see this conflict in that context.

"We knew that Putin was a bad man, we've known that for a long time now, but we didn't think that he would be the Hitler of the 21st century and I think he's putting himself into that space."

Russian ambassador to Ireland Yuri Filatov has claimed his country's invasion of Ukraine is a "humanitarian intervention".

Mr Filatov said there was no proof that Russian forces had targeted civilians in the assault.

He claimed Ukraine had used engagement in diplomacy in recent times as a cover for preparing an offensive on the Donbas region of the country.

"It's not our choice, the military option is not our choice," he told RTE.

He added: "There was no other choice to end the suffering of Donbas through real humanitarian intervention - that's what this special operation is exactly about.

"The only aim of the operation is to neutralise the ability of the Ukrainian military to inflict any more suffering on Donbas. Ukrainians should not be afraid of that."

His comments come amid increasing calls from opposition parties in Ireland to expel Mr Filatov from the country.

Asked why he should be allowed to stay, the ambassador said: "You might ask your Government, it's up to them. I can leave any time."

The Transport Secretary said he has extended a UK flight ban on Russian aircraft to include private jets.

The Government previously announced it was banning Russia's flag carrier Aeroflot from landing in the UK.

Grant Shapps tweeted: "Putin's actions are unlawful and anyone benefitting from Russia's aggression in Ukraine is not welcome here. I've strengthened our ban in the UK so that no Russian private jet can fly in UK airspace, or touchdown - effective immediately."

Boris Johnson has addressed a message directly to the people of Russia, saying in Russian: "I do not believe this war is in your name."

In a video posted on social media, the Prime Minister also spoke Ukrainian after urging an end to the conflict "because the world needs a free and sovereign Ukraine".

He said: "The scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy.

"Brave young soldiers and innocent civilians are being cut down, tanks are rumbling through towns and cities, missiles raining indiscriminately from the skies.

"It's a generation or more since we witnessed such bloodshed in Europe. We hoped we would never have to see such sights again."

Mr Johnson continued: "The people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.

"We salute the fierce bravery and patriotism of your government, your military and your people."

The Prime Minister went on to say: "Like Ukraine, Russia's poets and artists and authors have shaped our culture and Russia's soldiers fought so bravely with us in the struggle against fascism.

"But Putin's actions are leading to complete isolation for Russia, shunned by the rest of the international community, hit by immense economic sanctions and facing a needless and bloody war that is already costing countless lives, from innocent Ukrainians to your Russian soldiers who will never see their families again."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220225ei2p000gp


Inquirer
Putin’s war on the West is a bid to redraw Europe
Cameron Stewart
2693 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 13:00 GMT
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
Vladimir Putin has embarked on his biggest gamble, one that will ­redraw the map of Europe, trigger devastating war and partly restore his beloved Soviet empire.

The Russian President has ­orchestrated an unspeakable ­carnage as innocent Ukrainians cower under a brutal onslaught of bombs and tanks in scenes more reminiscent of Hitler’s invasion of Poland than modern Europe.

The rest of the world, including Australia, is watching in jaw-dropping horror at Russia’s invasion, hurling its collective disgust at Putin and threatening to impose evermore sweeping financial and economic sanctions on Moscow.

And yet the West is all but powerless to stop this war. It can only watch on helplessly as Putin drives a stake through the heart of those who naively believed the fall of the Berlin Wall three decades ago marked the end of Russian despots. An unprovoked attack on a major European power was confined to the history books, or so we thought.

What is remarkable about his attack on Ukraine is how Putin, a lifelong risk-taker, has managed to turn the odds in this crisis so heavily in his favour. At least for now.

The US and NATO will not bend in their refusal to intervene militarily to defend Ukraine, which is not a NATO member. Even if there were a will to try to defend Ukraine militarily, a war fought right on Russia’s border would come at a cost in lives that no Western nation would accept.

From his vantage point in the Kremlin, Putin sees nothing but opportunity. He sees a divided Europe which too often seemed more concerned about losing access to Russian gas supplies than it was about the invasion of a sovereign nation. He sees a polarised America, weary of foreign wars with an ageing President who is still damaged by the chaotic US withdrawal from Afghanistan.

Polls this week show just 26 per cent of Americans think the US should play a major role in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, giving Joe Biden little room to move.

With China, Putin has worked assiduously in recent months to forge closer links with Beijing and neutralise any opposition on Ukraine.

As Michele Flournoy, the top Pentagon policy official in the Obama administration, says; “We’re seeing that while Beijing doesn’t really like Putin’s tactics, they’re willing to band together as authoritarian states against the Western democracies.”

Satellite imagery released on February 24 shows the movement of Russian military vehicles in south western parts of Belarus, near the Polish and Ukrainian borders.

In the meantime, Putin has slowly and methodically ensured that his invasion, which began in earnest on Thursday, is likely to be a military rout given that he had surrounded Ukraine on three sides with more than 170,000 Russian troops backed by tanks, missiles and overwhelming firepower.

This week, Putin put the final touches on his invasion plans by giving a tortured re-imagining of Ukrainian history to try to argue that Kyiv had no rights as a sovereign nation. Putin’s message to Russians is that an invasion of Ukraine is really not an invasion of another country, but a reclaiming of a lost part of Russia, like a spiritual reunion of long lost friends. It is an argument that sinks under scrutiny but which exploits popular nostalgia for the Soviet empire, the loss of which Putin has called “the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century”.

On every level, Putin has confected this Ukraine invasion like a Russian grand master in chess, carefully moving his pieces into place, politically, militarily and psychologically, over many months to prepare for this terrible moment.

As such he is on the cusp of something he has spent decades longing for.

“Putin’s overarching aim is reversing the consequences of the Soviet collapse, splitting the transatlantic alliance and renegotiating the geographic settlement that ended the Cold War,” says former US intelligence officer Angela Stent. “The current crisis between Russia and Ukraine is a reckoning that has been 30 years in the making. It is much more than Ukraine and its possible NATO membership. It is about the future of the European order crafted after the Soviet Union’s collapse.”

Biden was equally blunt about Putin’s ambitions. Putin “has much larger ambitions than Ukraine. He wants to, in fact, re-establish the former Soviet Union. That’s what this is about,” he says.

The question is why now? After all, Putin made similar claims about Ukraine being a natural part of greater Russia when he invaded Ukraine’s Crimea Peninsula in 2014, yet he stopped short of attacking the rest of the country.

At that time, citing Crimea’s long history as part of Russia, Putin said of Crimea: “This strategic territory should be under a strong, sovereign state and that in fact can only be Russia.”

Putin justifies this week’s invasion of Ukraine on the spurious grounds that the country could be a “springboard” for a NATO ­attack against Russia.

NATO has certainly provoked Russia by progressively expanding eastwards since the end of the Cold War. But Ukraine is no closer now to joining NATO than it was in 2014. Putin has made a series of impossible demands on NATO, one of which is to promise that there will be no further expansion of the pact, including Ukraine.

For reasons which only Putin can truly know, this was his ­moment to act.

“The President of the Russian Federation is operating at a higher risk-tolerance level,” says Lieutenant General Ben Hodges who commanded the US Army in ­Europe from 2014 to 2017. “He is confident because we, the West, have not stopped him before or forced him to back down.”

But Putin’s decision to invade still comes with significant risk, even if he knows that Russia cannot be defeated militarily by the far smaller Ukraine army.

The size and scale of the sanctions which the West are now set to impose on Russia will dwarf those previously imposed on ­Moscow for Putin’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 or his invasion of Georgia in 2008.

The US and Europe initially announced relatively modest sanctions this week, reserving the toughest measures for a full scale invasion. Biden claims his planned sanctions will effectively cut Russia off from Western financing and inflict grievous harm on Russia’s economy and its leadership. German chancellor Olaf Scholz, who had previously been noncommittal about tough sanctions, this week agreed to put the $11bn Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline on hold, a move that will deny Moscow increased energy sales to Europe. This is one measure that will directly hurt Russia, but it also hits the EU which receives one third of its energy from Russia.

Russian sanctions will also hurt Europe, the US and the global economy and it will be a test of Western resolve to maintain them and increase them. Putin knows that mega-sanctions will damage Russia’s already stagnant economy, but it is obvious that he has already factored this into his overall plan on Ukraine. Putin has planned for this day and for these sanctions. Ever since the West imposed sanctions on Russia after the 2014 annexation of Crimea, Putin has been working to make Russia’s economy “sanction proof” by boosting foreign reserves, buying gold, and exporting more from neutral countries like China. Russia’s central bank has $US630bn in reserves of foreign exchange and gold, having grown from $US368bn in 2015. It would take a complete collapse of Russia’s economy – an unlikely scenario – for Putin’s leadership to be jeopardised.

The greater risk for Putin in invading Ukraine is not the immediate military outcome, but rather the long-term plan if Russian troops were to become an ­occupying force.

It is expected that Putin’s overwhelmingly superior Russian forces will conquer Ukraine in a relatively short period of time. But then what?

Ukraine is a democratic country of 44 million people, the ­majority of whom like their democracy and their freedoms and who say, according to the polls, that they would like their country to one day become a member of NATO.

In announcing his invasion, Putin claimed that he does not intend to occupy Ukraine, but rather seeks to “demilitarise” the country. But it is unclear how he can exert real control over Ukraine without keeping Russian troops there.

By invading and continuing to occupy Ukraine, Putin risks a military quagmire where Russian troops are drawn into a guerrilla-style war against pro-Ukrainian militia. This is what doomed Russia in Afghanistan in the 1980s.

NED-5569-Key cities in Putin’s sights

And then there is the vast human cost, although Putin gives no sign of caring about this. US intelligence estimates project an all-out invasion of Ukraine would see between 25,000 and 50,000 civilians killed or wounded, and between 5000 and 25,000 Ukrainian troops and 3000 to 10,000 Russian troops killed or wounded. It would be easily the most devastating conflict in ­Europe since World War II.

Putin has been careful to keep his options open and watch how the world reacts. His decision early in the week to formally recognise the independence of the breakaway pro-Russian areas of Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine and then start sending Russian forces only into that ­disputed region initially confounded the US and Europe. Was it a true “invasion” and what level of sanctions should be imposed on Moscow?

It was only on Thursday when Putin launched his bombing campaign in Kyiv and other cities that his true intentions became clear.

Putin’s journey to this point in history has been a deeply personal one. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989 and the Soviet Union disintegrated, he was a KGB officer based in Dresden in Germany. His life’s work to that point became meaningless overnight. Suddenly millions of Russians found themselves living outside Russia, in newly independent countries like Ukraine. A smaller, weaker Russia saw 41 per cent of its GDP vanish overnight. It was no longer a superpower

Putin claimed in a recent speech that he, like millions of Russians, fell on hard times in the 1990s as he tried to remake his life. He even claimed to have been a taxi driver for a while, saying: “Honestly, it’s not very pleasant to speak about.”

After the fall of the Soviet Union, “people found themselves abroad overnight, taken away, this time indeed from their ­historical motherland”, Putin wrote last year in a 5000-word essay which was delivered to Russian troops.

Putin speaks bitterly about what he calls the broken promises from the West at the time that NATO would never extend eastwards beyond Germany.

Observers say a turning point for the Russian President was the decision by NATO to turn eastwards in 2004 and grant membership to Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.

In 2007, Putin angrily accused the US of going too far and of having “overstepped its borders in every way”. NATO’s expansion, he said, was also “a serious provocation that reduces everybody’s trust”.

Then in 2008, NATO prematurely declared that Georgia and Ukraine “will become members of NATO”. It was one provocation too far for Putin who invaded Georgia later that year.

Putin has also detested what he sees as the belittling of Russia by the West in the post Cold War years. The late US senator John McCain famously disparaged Russia as a “gas station masquerading as a country”, while Barack Obama would refer to Moscow as merely a “regional power”.

Rodric Braithwaite, the British ambassador to Moscow when the Soviet Union collapsed, believes Putin’s wounded pride about the collapse of the Soviet Union is shared by many ordinary Russians.

“What Putin says about the humiliation of the Soviet collapse, the enlargement of NATO, and the intimate historical link between Russian and Ukrainian history is not his own idea,” Braithwaite says.

“Millions of Russians think and feel just like he does.”

But the scale of the attack on Ukraine has also shocked many Russians, with thousands taking to the streets to protest before being subdued by police.

Putin’s speech this week days before the invasion saw him reach new levels of sentimental extremes about Ukraine to publicly justify what was about to ­unfold.

“Ukraine is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space,” Putin said.

“These are our comrades, those dearest to us – not only colleagues, friends and people who once served together, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties.”

He portrayed Russia as the victim. “Ukraine will serve as the springboard for the strike (against Russia),” Putin claimed without evidence. “If our ancestors had heard about it, they probably would simply not have believed it. And today, they don’t want to believe it but it’s true.”

Putin continued on this theme when he announced the Russian offensive on Thursday, saying Russia couldn’t “tolerate the threat that emanates from modern” Ukraine. He asserted that the attack was needed to protect pro-Russian civilians in Donbas – even though his forces also ­attacked infrastructure in Kyiv and across the country.

“We were simply left with no chance to act otherwise,” Putin told a meeting of Russian business leaders this week.

Putin has ordered this military offensive knowing that it will come at great cost to US and ­European prestige. He knows that Biden is ultimately impotent to control what now happens in Ukraine.

The US President has sent more American troops to Europe and will reposition them around the Baltic States. Biden has said he will not send in troops to fight Russia in Ukraine but has vowed to defend any attack on a NATO member should Putin seek to ­expand his strikes beyond Ukraine’s borders. Sanctions and angry rhetoric are all that Washington, Europe and Australia can throw at Moscow for now.

America’s inability to persuade Putin to back down is a historic diplomatic failure and the gut-wrenching images this week bombs exploding across Ukraine will only heighten the sense of helplessness that many in the West feel. It has the potential to gravely hurt Biden’s presidency. A new Gallup poll shows just 36 per cent of Americans approve of how Biden has handled the situation with Russia, while 55 per cent disapprove. Worst of all, especially for Australia, is the fear that Western impotence over Ukraine could embolden China over Indo-Pacific flashpoints like Taiwan and the South China Sea.

But this is all a part of Putin’s plan. By invading Ukraine he has forced Washington to look to ­Europe at a time when it wants to concentrate on the challenge of a rising China in the Indo-Pacific.

As The Wall Street Journal puts it: “Russia’s audacious military assault on Ukraine is the first major clash marking a new order in international politics. This emerging order leaves the US contending with two adversaries at once in geographically disparate parts of the world.”

Ever since he came to power in 1999, Putin has been a risk-taker. He has subjugated democracy in Russia to effectively anoint himself as a dictator and has surprised the West with his boldness in sending Russian troops into Syria, annexing Crimea and invading Georgia.

But Putin’s invasion of Ukraine dwarfs his previous excesses. In the eyes of the West, he will now sit in the pantheon of Russian tyrants alongside Stalin and Lenin.

As Biden put it: “Who in the Lord’s name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belonged to his neighbours?”

Biden is right when he says Putin has created this “premeditated war” in Ukraine and that “Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this ­attack will bring”.

But in the same breath Biden also claims that “the world will hold Russia accountable”. The burning question is how?

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 AUSTOL0020220225ei2p0056c


The Ukraine Crisis: Eastern European Neighbors Face a Military Reckoning
By Drew Hinshaw and Natalia Ojewska
656 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A9
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
RZESZOW, Poland -- European countries on the border with Russia or Ukraine put troops on high alert and are rapidly expanding their militaries, with the Russian invasion of its smaller neighbor set to be a watershed moment for the U.S.'s easternmost allieson the continentand the military alliance that binds them together.

Lithuania introduced a state of emergency and reinforced military deployments near its border with Russia, while Poland kept active military personnel on duty and canceled leaves of absence and rotations home for the foreseeable future.

Both countries also called on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to invoke Article 4, a clause that would require all 30 governments in the military alliance to hold consultations on the crisis in Ukraine. Meanwhile, Slovakia and Hungary sent troops to manage a possible influx of people fleeing Ukraine.

Defense ministers, intelligence officers and senior politicians from Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia -- all NATO members that border either Russia or Ukraine -- say the long buildup to the invasion of Ukraine has driven them to aggressively ratchet up their military capabilities.

"We don't want to take chances," said Latvia's Defense Minister Artur Pabriks. "We never again want to be under the rule of such guys as him and under the Russians and we will do whatever it takes to keep them out of the country."

Latvia and its Baltic neighbors called Thursday for Russia to be disconnected from the Swift global payment system, escalating diplomatic pressure for what U.S. officials have seen as a sanction of last resort.

For years, Central and Eastern European countries counted on NATO's common-defense clause to protect them against aggression from Russia. At the same time, the alliance avoided rotating substantial numbers of troops there to avoid provoking Russia or violating commitments under a 1997 Russia-NATO agreement.

But U.S. reticence to move troops through the region has steadily fallen away. On Thursday, the first group of 40 U.S. troops arrived in Latvia, to be followed by hundreds more across the Baltic states. The U.K. is sending tanks and armored cars to Estonia and doubling its troop deployments there.

At the same time, governments in Poland and Estonia are ramping up their own capabilities, to ensure their defenses are enough to deter a Russian invasion -- or repel one for long enough to allow NATO allies to assist them.

The Polish government is seeking to nearly double the head count of the country's military to 300,000 people, which would make it one of Europe's largest by troop levels.

That increase began last July, when Polish President Andrzej Duda received intelligence reports from the U.S., later confirmed by Poland's own security services, that Russia -- supported by Moscow's close ally, Belarus -- was likely to escalate conflicts with neighboring states in coming months, a senior adviser to Mr. Duda said. Those plans accelerated in the fall, when Belarus encouraged thousands of asylum seekers, mostly from the Middle East, to cross Poland's border.

Now Poland is buying 250 Abrams tanks from the U.S., part of $6 billion of other defense equipment purchased from American defense contractors that includes thousands of antitank missiles and other sophisticated weapons systems. The government is seeking more personnel to operate weaponry like the $4.75 billion Patriot air defense missile system, which first arrived in the country last year.

"We saw the signals and we reacted," said the adviser.

Latvia is moving to increase its mandatory military service for young adults -- which is currently one day a month, over two years -- to three weeks, hoping to draw more army recruits. It is negotiating with the U.S. to acquire rocket artillery and new air and coastal defense systems. And all three Baltic countries are also increasingly pooling resources to combine capabilities, officials said.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020220225ei2p0001k


Live updates: Zelenskyy declines US offer to evacuate Kyiv
By The Associated Press
9102 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 04:04 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] :

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was asked to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the U.S. government but turned down the offer.

Zelenskyy said in response: “The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride,” according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation, who described Zelenskyy as upbeat.

Invading Russian forces closed in on Ukraine’s capital on Saturday, in an apparent encircling movement after a barrage of airstrikes on cities and military bases around the country.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — A second Russian Ilyushin Il-76 military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles (85 kilometers) south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.

On Friday, Ukraine’s military said it had shot down a Russian military transport plane with paratroopers on board.

According to a statement from the military’s General Staff, the first Il-76 heavy transport plane was shot down near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv. The Russian military has not commented on either incident so far, and the reports could not be immediately verified.

___

TOKYO — Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi says he spoke with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, on the phone Saturday and they agreed they must respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine properly to prevent it from becoming “a wrong lesson” because of its potential influence in Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.

Hayashi declined to comment if Japan plans to join the United States, Britain and the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Hayashi said Japan will stay in close touch with other Group of Seven members and other international leaders while watching the developments.

Hayashi told reporters that he and Blinken reaffirmed their commitment to work closely with the rest of international society and they agreed it is necessary to reject Russia's unilateral act to change the status quo.

___

UNITED NATIONS—Russia has vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution demanding that Moscow stop its attack on Ukraine and withdraw all troops.

Friday’s vote was 11-1, with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining. It showed significant but not total opposition to Russia’s invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbor.

The United States and other supporters knew the resolution wouldn’t pass but argued it would highlight Russia’s international isolation. The resolution’s failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the U.N. General Assembly. There are no vetoes in the 193-member assembly. There’s no timetable as yet for a potential Assembly vote.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria on Friday introduced a ban on the entry of Russian aircraft into the country’s airspace.

All aircraft licensed by the Russian Federation may not enter the sovereign airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the airspace over its territorial waters, the government announced. The ban is effective starting Saturday.

The government said it took the action in connection with the escalation of the military conflict and in solidarity with Ukraine.

___

SYDNEY—Australia is imposing sanctions against all 339 members of the Russian parliament and is considering sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne also announced on Saturday sanctions against eight Russian oligarchs close to Putin. Australia was also taking steps to imposed sanctions on key figures in the Belarusian government who had aided the Ukraine invasion.

Payne said she was seeking advice from her department on following western allies’ example in sanctioning Putin.

“It is an exceptional step to sanction leaders, but this is an exceptional situation,” Payne said.

___

WASHINGTON—Ukraine’s top diplomatic envoy in the U.S. is urging countries to sever diplomatic relations with Russia over its invasion of their country.

Ambassador Oksana Markarova’s request came in an emergency meeting Friday at the Washington-based Organization of American States, whose members were debating a resolution condemning the military attack ordered by President Vladimir Putin.

“It’s hard to imagine that something like this happens in the center of Europe in the 21st Century,” an emotional Markarova said during the meeting. She urged delegates to supply Ukraine with defensive weapons and follow the lead of the Federated States of Micronesia, a Pacific island nation that earlier Friday broke all ties with Russia.

Alexander Kim, a senior diplomat at Russia’s embassy in Washington, towed closely to the Kremlin’s unsubstantiated claim that the military incursion was an attempt to “de-Nazify” a government that had committed scores of atrocities against civilians.

“We are open to diplomacy,” Kim told representatives of more than 30 Latin American governments, many of whom have pursued closer relations with Moscow in recent years. “However, diplomacy presumes an ability to negotiate. It is not a tool for blackmailing and imposing the decision of Washington and its satellite states.”

___

LONDON—British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he is in “close contact” with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as he hailed “the fierce bravery and patriotism” of Ukraine’s government and people.

In a recorded message, Johnson said “the scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy,” calling it bloodshed Europe has not seen in a generation or more.

He said “the people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.”

Johnson also urged Russians to oppose the invasion, which he called “a tragedy for Russia” as well as for Ukraine.

Speaking in Russian, he said: “I do not believe this war is in your name.”

Britain has imposed asset freezes and other sanctions on scores of Russian companies and several oligarchs, and has joined the U.S., Canada and the European Union in slapping sanctions on President Vladimir Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary—Hungary’s foreign minister has offered Budapest as a possible location for negotiations between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine as Russia’s invasion intensifies.

“Budapest can serve as a safe venue for both the Russian and Ukrainian negotiation delegations,” Peter Szijjarto said in a video on Facebook late Friday, adding that he had made the proposal to both Russia’s and Ukraine’s governments, neither of which dismissed it.

“I sincerely hope that an agreement can be reached within a few hours or days to start discussions; the sooner the talks begin, the sooner there will be peace and the fewer people will have to die in the war,” Szijjarto said.

___

BRUSSELS—With a military intervention in Ukraine off the table, countries around the world are looking to heap more financial punishment on Moscow.

The United States, Britain and European Union said Friday they will move to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

The EU’s unanimous decision, part of a broader sanctions package, indicated that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban.

___

TORONTO—Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is announcing sanctions on Russian Vladimir Putin, his chief of staff and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.

Trudeau also says Canada supports the removal of Russia from the SWIFT banking system.

The prime minister is also announcing sanctions against Belarus.

Meanwhile, Canada’s largest province is pulling Russian products from shelves from government owned liquor stores.

Ontario Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy says the province joins Canada’s allies in condemning the Russian government’s act of aggression against the Ukrainian people, and will direct the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to withdraw all products produced in Russia from store shelves.

The French-speaking province of Quebec is also considering banning Russian liquor.

___

UNITED NATIONS—The U.N. plans to seek over $1 billion in donations for humanitarian relief in Ukraine over the next three months, the world body’s humanitarian chief said Friday.

Martin Griffiths said at a news briefing that the exact amount of the appeal is still being decided but will be “well north of $1 billion.”

The U.N. announced Thursday that it was immediately allocating $20 million to expand its humanitarian operations in Ukraine. Even before Russia’s attack this week, the world body estimated about 3 million people were in need of aid after years of fighting between Russian-backed separatists and the Ukrainian government in the country’s east.

Now, “the scale of need in these very, very extraordinary circumstances is going to be of the highest,” Griffiths said.

The U.N. issues multiple appeals each year for international donors, mainly governments, to finance humanitarian efforts in trouble spots around the world. Last month, it requested more than $5 billion for Afghanistan, the largest-ever appeal tied to a single country.

___

RICHMOND, Va.—Criminal ransomware operators are posting messages on the dark web pledging to launch retaliatory cyberattacks if Russia is attacked.

The ransomware group Conti, which experts say has ties to Russia, said in a note on its dark web site Friday that it would “use all our possible resources to strike back at the critical infrastructures of an enemy.”

Ransomware gangs are mostly Russian-speaking and operate with near impunity out of Russia and allied countries.

In a follow up note, the Conti group stressed it was not an ally of any government and said: “we condemn the ongoing war.”

Major ransomware attacks in the last year, including against the biggest U.S. fuel pipeline, have underscored how gangs of extortionist hackers can disrupt the economy and put lives and livelihoods at risk. The U.S. government has been warning critical infrastructure entities to prepare for possible attacks and to make sure their defenses are up to date.

Non-state hackers have promised to be active in both sides of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The online collective Anonymous recently pledged to conduct cyberattacks to support Ukraine.

___

BERLIN—The German government says it plans to deploy troops and the Patriot anti-missile system to Slovakia as part of NATO plans to strengthen the alliance’s eastern flank.

The Defense Ministry said Friday that it plans to send an infantry company as part of a combat troop battalion. And it said that Germany also will contribute the Patriot system.

The ministry stressed that the so-called “enhanced vigilance activity battlegroup” has a purely defensive function.

Slovakia is a NATO and European Union member that borders Ukraine. Germany already is beefing up its troop contingent in Lithuania, another nation on NATO’s eastern flank.

___

KYIV, Ukraine--Russian troops are bearing down on Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv.

Mayor Vitaly Klitschko says five explosions hit an area near a major power plant on the city’s eastern outskirts. There was no information on the cause of the blasts, which Klitschko said occurred at intervals of several minutes. No electricity outages were immediately reported.

The invasion of a democratic country has fueled fears of wider war in Europe and triggered worldwide efforts to make Russia stop.

___

BELGRADE, Serbia—Serbia defied calls from the European Union and the U.S. to join sanctions against Russia, although its autocratic president said that Moscow’s assault against Ukraine is against the international law.

With the move, Serbia remains a rare European state together with Belarus not to join Western sanctions introduced against Moscow for its invasion of a sovereign European state.

“Serbia respects the norms of the international law,” President Aleksandar Vucic said. “But Serbia also understands its own interests.”

Vucic said that Serbia regards the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity as “very wrong,” but added it won’t join international sanctions against Russia.

Despite formally seeking EU membership, Serbia has been strengthening ties with its traditional Slavic ally Russia. Moscow has been supplying Serbia’s armed forces with weapons, leading to more tensions in the Balkans which went through a bloody civil war in the 1990s.

___

ROME—Thousands of Romans and Ukrainians who live in the Italian capital marched side-by-side to the Colosseum to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

They took up the call by Rome’s mayor to clutch lit candles on Friday evening and walk from the square atop the Capitoline Hill to the ancient arena, a few minutes’ stroll away.

Several of the Ukrainians among the marchers wept. They put a hand over their heart while singing the Ukrainian anthem. Others held Ukrainian flags or protest signs or shouted, “hands off our country” or voiced other denunciations of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Among the marchers was Ruslan Yakubovskyy, a Ukrainian.

“I live here, I bought a home here, my family is here, but I am thinking about going back to Ukraine to fight and lend a helping hand,″ he said. “The situation is so difficult that either it’s that the rest of the world is pretending not to see or it doesn’t want to see it at all."

City Hall and the Colosseum were illuminated in the colors of the Ukrainian flag, yellow and blue.

___

WARSAW, Poland - Presidents of NATO’s eastern flank member states gathered Friday in Warsaw voiced their support for tough sanctions on Russia and its leaders for the invasion of Ukraine.

Nine presidents of the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine held a security summit with the participation of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. They also remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

“There cannot be any ‘business as usual’ in this situation in relations with Russia because that would have been a betrayal of the principles of the honest, open world,” Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, said after the talks that he had hosted.

___

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain would introduce sanctions against Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to inflict maximum punishment for invading Ukraine, his Downing Street office said Friday.

Johnson’s pledge comes as the European Union approved an asset freeze on Putin and Lavrov. The comments from Johnson suggest that Western powers are acting in concert on unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor.

In comments to NATO leaders, the UK leader pressed again for immediate action to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions. European nations have faced criticism for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network in offering sanctions on Thursday.

Johnson said “the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression.”

___

TIRANA, Albania—Albania's prime minister on Friday said the tiny Western Balkan country would welcome Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking after a NATO summit Prime Minister Edi Rama said that like all the other NATO member countries, Albania would be ready to welcome a few thousand Ukrainians leaving their country due to the Russian invasion.

Rama did not give any concrete number.

Albania, a NATO member since 2009, has followed the United States and European Union on its stand denouncing Russian invasion.

Albania was the first to offer shelter and then house some 2,400 Afghan evacuees after the Taliban came to power in August last year. Some 300 have already left, mainly for the United States.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday that U.S. President Joe Biden and his counterparts have agreed to send parts of the organization’s response force to help protect allies in the east over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking after chairing a NATO meeting, Stoltenberg said the leaders decided to send parts of the NATO Response Force and elements of a quickly deployed spearhead unit. He did not say how many troops would be deployed, but confirmed that the move would involve land, sea and air power.

The NRF can number up to 40,000 troops, but Stoltenberg said that NATO would not be deploying the entire force. Parts of a force known in NATO jargon as the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which is currently led by France, will also be sent.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has released a video of himself and his senior aides in Kyiv to reassure the nation as Russian troops were closing in on the capital.

In the video Zelenskyy recorded in the street outside the presidential office, he said he and his top officials are staying in the capital.

“Our troops are here, citizens are here,” Zelenskyy said, adding that “All of us are here protecting our independence of our country. And it will continue to be this way. Glory to our defenders, Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes.”

Russian troops bore down on Ukraine’s capital Friday, with gunfire and explosions resonating ever closer to the government quarter.

In the fog of war, it was unclear how much of Ukraine remains under Ukrainian control and how much or little Russian forces have seized. The Kremlin accepted Kyiv’s offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraine’s embattled president instead of a gesture toward a diplomatic solution.

___

ROME — Premier Mario Draghi’s Cabinet on Friday formally approved previously announced participation by 250 Italian military forces and 139 land vehicles in NATO’s enhanced Forward Presence in Latvia, as well as air policing by some 12 aircraft currently deployed in Romania and patrols by an intelligence-gathering aircraft and a refueling aircraft as part of NATO’s shoring up of its eastern flank allies in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The government also approved deployment of 235 military forces aboard two or three naval vessels, as well as an aircraft as part of surveillance and intelligence-gathering in the eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea.

Also getting the government’s formal OK was the mobilization of 1,350 military personnel, involving 77 land vehicles and two naval vessels – with the second one to be deployed in the second half of the year -- as well as five aircraft as part of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force.

Approval was granted for that force to be increased to as many as 1,970 military personnel. The same Cabinet session also granted authorization to provide at no cost non-lethal military equipment to Ukraine, including protective devices for soldiers and de-mining equipment

___

BRUSSELS — Latvia’s foreign minister says the European Union has agreed to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine.

The move indicates that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

Foreign Minister Edgard Rinkevics announced the EU decision Friday in a tweet.

He said another package of sanctions is to be prepared by the EU.

___

PARIS — The leader of the Belarus opposition in exile says the European Union should slap tougher sanctions on Belarus for its role in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Sviatlana Tiskhanouskaya says Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko, a close ally of Russia, has turned her country into “an aggressor” in Ukraine.

She told The Associated Press on Friday that Belarus has become “an aircraft carrier” for the Russian military, carrying troops to Ukraine, re-fueling its war machine and housing soldiers of the invading force.

The United States, the EU, Britain and Canada last year imposed sanctions on Belarusian officials, businesses and several sectors of the economy and the financial system following a brutal crackdown on Lukashenko’s opponents. They were protesting his fraudulent re-election for a sixth term.

French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday called the Belarus government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine and said it will also be targeted with sanctions.

___

WASHINGTON — Russian state broadcaster RT says it was subjected to “massive” denial-of-service attacks after the online collective Anonymous pledged to carry out cyberattacks in support of Ukraine, which is being invaded by Russian forces.

RT said in a statement that the attacks on its websites came from about 100 million devices, mostly based in the U.S. But the broadcaster said it was resolving the issues and its website appeared to be functioning normally Friday.

Anonymous announced a day earlier on Twitter that it is “officially in cyber war against the Russian government” and noted later that the Russian Ministry of Defense website was down.

But it is difficult to attribute a cyberattack to Anonymous or even confirm that someone is a member of a collective that is open to anyone who claims to use hacking for a particular cause.

___

GIBRALTAR — Punitive measures against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine have spread to a tiny speck of territory on Spain’s southern tip, with Gibraltar’s government taking steps against Russia Today television.

Gibraltar on Friday announced it was suspending the Russian state broadcaster for spreading “disinformation.” It also revoked a visa waiver program for Russian citizens.

The office for Chief Minister Fabian Picardo described Russia Today as a “mouthpiece for the Kremlin” that “will become a dangerous source of disinformation that Gibraltar cannot accept on its networks.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s Ministry of Defense says the bulk of Russian forces advancing on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv are more than 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the center of the city.

The ministry said it continues to monitor “sporadic clashes’’ between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the northern suburbs of the capital.

The intelligence update, delivered via Twitter, also said that armored units were forced to open a new route toward Kyiv after failing to capture Chernihiv, a city northeast of the capital near the Belarusian border.

___

BRUSSELS — Europe’s foremost human rights organization has suspended Russia because of its invasion of Ukraine, though it remains a member.

The 47-nation Council of Europe announced Friday that Russia was suspended with “immediate effect” from the Committee of Ministers and the parliamentary assembly “as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed attack on Ukraine.”

The Strasbourg-based organization said Russia remained a member and continued to be bound to the relevant human rights conventions.

“Suspension is not a final measure but a temporary one, leaving channels of communication open,” a statement said.

___

VIENNA — The International Atomic Energy Agency says the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant reported higher-than-usual radiation levels after being taken over by Russian forces invading Ukraine.

But it said Friday that current radiation levels do not pose a threat to the public.

Ukraine’s regulatory authority previously said that increased radiation levels may be due to military vehicles stirring up soil that remains contaminated from the accident in 1986, still known as the worst nuclear disaster in history.

But the measures are “within the operational range measured in the Exclusion Zone since it was established,” according to the IAEA.

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone is a 2,600-square-kilometer (1,000-square-mile) area of forest lying between the Belarus-Ukraine border and the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.

Russian forces took control over the site Thursday after a fierce battle with Ukrainian national guards protecting the plant.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says prospects for possible peace talks between Russia and Ukraine look uncertain due to apparent differences over a venue.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials in Minsk, Belarus, where President Alexander Lukashenko runs a pro-Russian government.

That agreement came in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s offer earlier in the day to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Peskov told reporters that after the parties discussed Minsk as a possible venue, Ukrainian officials changed course and said they were unwilling to travel to Minsk and would prefer to meet in NATO member Poland. They then halted further communication, Peskov said.

Putin has claimed that the western refusal to heed Russia's demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order an invasion of the neighboring country.

___

PRAGUE -- The Czech Republic’s transport minister says his country has banned all Russian airlines from Czech airports, in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Martin Kupka said Friday the ban covers all regular flights between Prague and Moscow and Prague and St. Petersburg, as well as charter flights.

Russian planes will also be banned from landing at the western Czech spa town of Karlovy Vary, a popular destination for Russian tourists. The measure becomes affective at midnight.

Additionally, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said his country will stop issuing visas for Russian citizens and will urge other European Union countries to do the same.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Major retail chains in Lithuania started to remove Russian and Belarusian products from shelves, a move joined by online shops and widely applauded by the public as a protest against Moscow’s decision to invade Ukraine.

Maxima LT, the largest chain in the Baltic nations, said Friday the Russian goods it sells are mainly alcohol, dried products and candy, amounting to millions of euros (dollars) in sales.

Other retailers like drug stores and home suppliers made similar announcements. The Lithuanian postal service said it will not be distributing any more Russian periodicals.

International companies such as IKEA are facing pressure to remove Russian-made goods from sale in the small Baltic country, which fears Russian aggression.

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin has hailed his troops for their courage as they press their offensive across Ukraine and bear down on Kyiv.

Speaking during Friday’s meeting of his Security Council, Putin claimed that most Ukrainian military units are reluctant to engage Russian forces.

He said the units offering resistance are mostly volunteer battalions made up of right-wing Ukrainian nationalists.

He offered no evidence for his claims, which could not be independently verified.

Echoing an earlier Russian military statement, Putin accused Ukrainian forces of deploying heavy weapons in urban areas in several big cities, including Kyiv and Kharkiv, to use civilians as shields.

The Russian president urged the Ukrainian military to end their resistance and turn on their leaders.

___

WARSAW, Poland - European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is in Warsaw for urgent talks with NATO’s nine eastern flank members on how to enhance the region’s security, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The participants were also due to remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, hosting the talks between the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine, in his opening speech said that “demons of a great war, unseen since 1945” have returned to Europe.

NATO’s eastern flank members fear Moscow could also target them.

___

FORT STEWART, Ga. — The U.S. Army says 3,800 soldiers from Fort Stewart, Georgia, are among additional forces deploying to Europe following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Troops from the Army post southwest of Savannah, Georgia, “will deploy to reassure NATO allies, deter further aggression against NATO member states and train with host-nation forces,” Fort Stewart commanders said in a statement late Thursday.

Fort Stewart is home to the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division, which saw multiple combat deployments during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of the 3rd Infantry soldiers heading to Europe are assigned to the division’s 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team.

“The Raider Brigade is trained and equipped to deter aggression and to reassure and defend our allies,” Col. Pete Moon, the 1st Brigade’s commander, said in prepared statement.

The Georgia-based soldiers appear to be among 7,000 additional U.S. forces deploying to Germany to bolster NATO following the invasion of Ukraine. President Joe Biden ordered the deployments Thursday.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Chinese President Xi Jinping he’s ready to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials.

The Kremlin said in its readout of Friday’s call that Xi underlined that he “views the Russian leadership’s action in the crisis situation with respect.”

In a reference to new Western sanctions against Russia over its invasion in Ukraine, the Kremlin noted that Putin and Xi agreed “it’s inadmissible to use illegitimate sanctions for achieving selfish goals of certain countries.”

Chinese state TV reported that Xi emphasized that China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations.”

___

NEW DELHI — Dozens of parents, relatives and friends of Indian students stranded in Ukraine held a demonstration near the Russian Embassy in New Delhi to demand the students' immediate evacuation.

Police barricaded the roads leading to the embassy on Friday and asked the protesters to meet Indian Foreign Ministry officials to discuss the repatriation of nearly 16,000 Indians, including students.

Some of the demonstrators held video conferencing calls with some of those stuck in metro trains and bomb shelters in Kyiv.

``We are running low on food and water in a crowded bunker,” one of the callers in Ukraine said.

Indian Embassy officials are now traveling to border areas of Ukraine touching Poland, Romania Slovakia and Hungary to facilitate the exit of Indian nationals so that they can be evacuated to India, said foreign ministy official Harsh Vardhan Shringla.

___

BRUSSELS — Germany’s foreign minister said Friday that the European Union will take in all people fleeing Ukraine due to the current conflict.

“We need to do everything to immediately take in the people who are now fleeing bombs, fleeing tanks, that’s also what we’ve been preparing for in recent weeks,” Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters in Brussels.

“We tried everything so this day wouldn’t come,” she said. “And it came because the Russian president chose it, opted for war and against human lives.”

“That’s why we will take in all of the people who are fleeing now,” Baerbock said. “We will bring the people from Ukraine to safety.”

___

BUCHAREST, Romania — Moldova’s national naval agency says a ship in “neutral waters” of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.

The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.

“A fire broke out onboard the ship; the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed,” the agency said in a statement. “The ship’s crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets.”

The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.

Rescue operations were carried out by Ukrainian authorities, the Moldovan agency said.

___

LONDON — An expert in international trade says he thinks world leaders are reluctant to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions because it is the “nuclear option” of sanctions.

Disconnecting Russia from SWIFT to try to force President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine would have major economic costs for western countries, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy.

Lee-Makiyama told the BBC that if Russia were cut off for foreign payments for its gas and oi,l it would quickly start expropriating the 300 billion euros EU investors have plowed into the country.

“It’s a nuclear option that it’s going to basically exterminate yourself and your enemy,” he said.

World leaders, who have so far ruled out military intervention in Ukraine, have few good options for deterring Putin because he knows they fear a direct confrontation with Russia, Lee-Makiyama said.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russia is ready to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send the delegation in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's offer to discuss a non-aligned status for Ukraine.

That indicates Zelenskyy would be willing to negotiate dropping his country’s bid to join NATO, as Russia has demanded.

Before the invasion, the West had rejected the demand. Putin claimed the refusal to discuss keeping Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order a military action in Ukraine to “demilitarize” it.

___

BANGKOK — Myanmar’s ruling military council offered its support Friday for Russia’s attack on Ukraine, while the shadow government leading opposition to army rule condemned Moscow’s action.

A statement by the spokesman for Myanmar’s military government said Russia acted correctly to perpetuate its “sovereignty.”

A text message to Myanmar journalists from Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun also said the invasion demonstrated Russia’s position as a “world power” helping to keep global relations in balance.

Myanmar’s military rulers face armed domestic opposition, and like Russia’s leaders now, are the target of strong sanctions from Western governments seeking a return to democratic rule.

Myanmar’s National Unity Government, established by lawmakers prevented from taking their seats when the army seized power in February last year, deplored Moscow’s action.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania — Lithuania's Radio and Television Commission has temporarily suspended the operation of six Russian-language TV channels for their alleged incitement to war and propaganda.

The six TV channels were taken off the air Friday

Planeta RTR, Rossijya 24, Belarus 24, NTV Mir, RTR Planeta and Rossiya 24 were suspended for five years, and PBK and TVCI for three years, commission Vice Chairman Ricardas Slapsys told the Baltic News Service.

Lithuania, the most southern of the three Baltic nations, borders Russia’s Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south.

Latvia banned several Russian television channels had their right to broadcast in Latvia suspended Thursday for several years.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has taken control of an airport just outside Kyiv, as Kremlin forces bear down on the Ukrainian capital.

The claim could not be independently verified.

Taking possession of the airport in Hostomel, which has a long runway allowing the landing of heavy-lift transport planes, would mean Russia can airlift troops directly to Kyiv’s outskirts.

Hostomel is just 7 kilometers (4 miles) northwest of the city.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel and killed over 200 troops belonging to Ukraine's special forces.

Konashenkov claimed that Russian troops suffered no casualties. That contradicts Ukrainian claims that Russian troops sustained heavy casualties in the fighting there.

___

BERLIN — Germany’s Defense Ministry has confirmed media reports that it is deploying additional military assets to NATO’s eastern flank.

German weekly Der Spiegel reported that the deployments included 150 soldiers and about a dozen Boxer armored fighting vehicles, two ships and anti-missile systems.

Ministry spokesman Christian Thiels declined to say Friday exactly how many soldiers were being deployed. But he confirmed that a navy corvette would leave Saturday for patrols in the Baltic while a frigate will be deployed in the Mediterranean, both under NATO command.

Germany is also assessing whether to deploy Patriot anti-missile systems to an eastern European NATO country, Thiels said.

Decisions on deploying further troops could be expected soon, he added.

___

BEIJING — Chinese state TV says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, that Moscow is willing to negotiate with Ukraine, even as Moscow's forces invade its neighbor.

The report Friday followed a Kremlin announcement that Putin’s government was considering an offer by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to negotiate non-aligned status for his country.

Putin said Moscow “is willing to conduct high-level negotiations with the Ukrainian side,” China Central Television reported on its website.

It gave no indication whether Putin said he was responding to Zelenskyy’s offer or gave any details of what the two sides might negotiate.

Russia complains that the United States and its allies ignored Moscow’s “legitimate security concerns” by expanding the NATO military alliance eastward, closer to Russia’s borders.

Xi said China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations,” CCTV said.

___

ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey’s foreign minister says officials are still assessing a request by Ukraine for Turkey to close to Russian shipping the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea.

Mevlut Cavusoglu warned, however, that under a 1936 convention Ankara may not be able to deny total access to the Russian vessels.

Ukraine on Thursday formally asked Turkey to close the Turkish Straits to Russian warships in line with the Montreux Convention which allows Turkey to restrict the passage of belligerent countries’ warships during times of war. The convention stipulates however, that warships belonging to Black Sea coastal countries can return to their bases.

“If there is a demand for the ships of the warring countries to return to their bases, then (passage) must be allowed,” Cavusoglu was quoted as telling Hurriyet newspaper in an interview.

The minister said Turkish experts were assessing if the current situation amounted to "a state of war.”

___

BERLIN — Germany’s president is appealing to Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop the madness of this war now.”

President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin on Friday said that “we don’t want enmity with the Russian people, quite the contrary, but this wrongdoing cannot go without a clear answer.”

Steinmeier, whose post is largely ceremonial but holds moral authority, said that Germany will do its part in deterring Putin from using force against its NATO allies.

The president, who served twice as Germany’s foreign minister, said that Putin “should not underestimate the strength of democracies” and Germans shouldn’t either.

He said it’s good that people are going out to demonstrate, adding: “The Russian president should not believe for a second that people in Germany and Europe simply accept this brutal violence.”

___

VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.

Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of feeling about Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Vatican officials said they knew of no such previous papal initiative.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted “clearly to express his concern about the war.” Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.

Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.

But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.

___

GENEVA — The U.N. human rights office says it is receiving increasing reports of civilian casualties in Ukraine in the wake of Russia’s military invasion.

Spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani of the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights says its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties. They include 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.

She cautioned Friday that the numbers are “very likely to be an underestimate.”

Shamdasani also said the rights office was “disturbed by the multiple arbitrary arrests” of demonstrators in Russia who on Thursday protested against the conflict.

“We understand more than 1,800 protesters were arrested,” she said, before adding that it was unclear how many might have been released already.

Meanwhile, spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo of the U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, said its latest update had that more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine. She said the agency’s planning figures anticipated that “up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.”

___

LONDON — Latvia’s defense minister is criticizing European nations for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network and refusing to provide weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.

Artis Pabriks’ comments came after the U.S. and European Union stopped short of blocking Russia’s access to the SWIFT payments system when they announced a new round of sanctions late Thursday.

Pabriks also chided fellow EU nations that have refused to provide “lethal aid” to Ukraine, saying only the U.K., Greece, Poland and the Baltic states had done so.

In an interview with the BBC on Friday, Pabriks suggested that many European leaders don’t want to take these steps because they would cause economic hardship for their own countries.

“If you are really not ready yourself to spill blood, at least spill money now,’’ he said. “Do it now, because if you lose Ukraine all European geopolitics will change. … There will be much more pressure on Poland, much more pressure on the Baltics.’’

The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia fear they could be the Kremlin’s next target.

___

DAMASCUS, Syria — Syrian President Bashar Assad is praising Russia’s military incursion into Ukraine and denouncing what he calls western “hysteria” surrounding it.

Assad spoke by phone Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“What is happening today is a correction of history and a restoration of balance which was lost in the world after the breakup of the Soviet Union,” Assad said, according to state-run news agency SANA.

He said confronting NATO expansionism is Russia’s right.

Russia is a main backer of Assad’s government and its military intervention in 2015 in the country’s civil war helped tip the balance of power in his favor.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says it will analyze the Ukrainian president’s offer to discuss a non-aligned status for his country, as a Russian military invasion pushes closer to Kyiv.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he was ready to hold talks on the issue.

Asked about Zelenskyy’s offer, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday described it as “a move in a positive direction.”

He said in a conference call with reporters that “we paid attention to that, and now we need to analyze it.”

But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Zelenskyy “is simply lying” when he offers to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Lavrov said at a briefing that Zelenskyy “missed the opportunity” to discuss a neutral status for Ukraine when Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed it.

Putin says the West left him no option but to invade when it rejected Moscow’s demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO.

___

BRUSSELS — A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: “Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.”

Michel announced the move after a call with Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Michel said Kyiv “is under continued attack by Russian forces” and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary has extended temporary legal protection to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion, as countries in eastern Europe prepare for the arrival of refugees at their borders.

Hungary, which borders Ukraine to the west, has in the past taken a firm stance against all forms of immigration. It has controversially refused to accept refugees and asylum seekers from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

But in a decree published late Thursday, Hungary’s government announced that all Ukrainian citizens arriving from Ukraine, and all third-country nationals legally residing there, would be entitled to protection.

The section applying to third-country nationals makes it possible for non-Ukrainians — for example, Belarussian refugees living in Ukraine — to receive protection in the European Union.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that Hungary will play no part in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but that it would accept refugees arriving at its borders.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has expressed his solidarity with Ukraine in telephone call with the country’s leader.

Johnson’s Downing Street office said Friday that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered an update on Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes.

“The prime minister assured President Zelenskyy that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing,’’ Johnson’s office said in a statement. “He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia’s campaign of violence and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.’’

___

BERLIN — The German government says it has suspended the granting of export credit and investment guarantees for business with Russia.

The Economy Ministry said Friday that the granting of new export credit guarantees and investment guarantees for Russia was suspended on Thursday.

The so-called Hermes credit export guarantees protect German companies from losses when exports aren’t paid for. Investment guarantees are granted by the German government to protect direct investments by German companies from political risk in the countries where they are made.

The Economy Ministry said that new export credit guarantees to the tune of 1.49 billion euros ($1.67 billion) were granted last year for business with Russia. New investment guarantees came in at a fraction of that amount, at 3.75 million euros ($4.2 million).

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland’s Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the country’s land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began.

Before that, there were some 12,000 average daily entries from Ukraine into European Union and NATO member Poland, through land, sea and airport checkpoints, according to Border Guard statistics.

Poland has lifted the requirement of COVID-19 quarantine or vaccination certificates for refugees from Ukraine. A number of reception centers with camp beds, soup kitchens and medical care have been organized in locations close to the border with Ukraine.

___

BEIJING — China is holding back from labeling Russia’s attack on Ukraine an invasion.

At the same time, it is upholding the sanctity of territorial sovereignty, in a nod to its own insistence that Taiwan is part of China.

“The sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and maintained,” China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Friday.

“At the same time, we also see that the issue of Ukraine has its own complex and special historical merits, and we understand Russia’s legitimate concerns on security issues,” he added.

Wang did not answer questions about whether China would recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, in Ukrainian territory claimed by Russia, as independent states.

___

MOSCOW — Russia’s civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British government’s ban on Aeroflot flights.

Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.

It said the measure was taken in response to the “unfriendly decisions” by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has destroyed 118 Ukrainian military assets since the beginning of its assault on its neighbor and as it pushes into the outskirts of Kyiv.

The claim could not be independently verified and was not confirmed by Ukraine amid a flurry of claims and counterclaims by each side.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that among the targets were 11 Ukrainian air bases, 13 command facilities, 36 air defense radars, 14 air defense missile systems, 5 warplanes, 18 tanks and warships.

However, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace rejected Russian claims of success on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, saying it had “failed to deliver” on its day one objectives.

Wallace told Sky News that the Western assessment is that Russia had failed to take its major objectives and is behind on its timetable for advance.

“They’ve lost over 450 personnel,’’ he said.

___

BERLIN — Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has condemned Russia’s attack on Ukraine, calling it “a deep cut in European history after the end of the Cold War.”

Germany’s dpa news agency quoted Merkel saying Friday that there was “no justification for this blatant attack of international law. I condemn it in the sharpest possible manner.”

Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and speaks Russian, was heavily engaged in negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her 16 years in office, which ended in December.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s nuclear energy regulatory agency says that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, after it was seized by the Russian military.

The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said Friday that higher gamma radiation levels have been detected in the Chernobyl zone, but didn’t provide details of the increase.

It attributed the rise to a “disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air.”

Ukrainian authorities said that Russia took the plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle Thursday.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible “provocations.” He insisted that radiation levels in the area have remained normal.

The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan warned “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards, Khan said in a statement Friday.

Khan adds that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Kyiv mayor Vitaly Klitschko said at least three people were injured when a rocket hit a multi-story apartment building in Ukraine's capital on Friday, starting a fire.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the Russian military's claim it is not targeting civilian areas is “a lie.” He said that military and civilian areas in Ukraine are both being hit by Russian attacks.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city; from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014; and from Belarus to the north.

___

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that France and its European allies have decided to “inflict very severe blows on Moscow,” further sanctioning individuals and targeting finance, energy and other sectors. The legal texts for the sanctions will be finalized and submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers later Friday.

Macron also said the EU has decided on economic aid for Ukraine in the amount of 1.5 billion euros ($1.68 billion).

The French president also called the Belorussian government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine, and said it will also be targeted.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — As Russian troops continued pressing their offensive Friday, intense fighting also raged in the country’s east.

Russian troops entered the city of Sumy near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east. The regional governor, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said Ukrainian forces fought Russian troops in the city overnight, but other Russian convoys kept rolling west toward the Ukrainian capital.

“Military vehicles from Sumy are moving toward Kyiv,” Zhivitsky said. “Much equipment has passed through and is heading directly to the west.”

Zhivitsky added that another northeastern city, Konotop, was also sieged. He urged residents of the region to fight the Russian forces.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan issued a statement Friday on Twitter while on a visit to Bangladesh, where he is investigating crimes against Myanmar’s Rohingya minority.

Khan said he alerted “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards," Khan added.

He said that “any person who commits such crimes, including by ordering, inciting or contributing in another manner to the commission of these crimes may be liable to prosecution before the Court.”

Khan added that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: With Zelenskyy and a 2nd Russian plane reportedly shot down. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220225ei2p00mau


Rinkevics does not rule out agreement on banning Russian ships from EU waters
Anastasija Tetarenko
204 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日 07:20 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, March 2 (LETA) - Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics (New Unity) does not rule out the possibility for European Union (EU) member states to agree on banning Russian ships from their territorial waters.

In an interview to Latvian Television the minister said that a number of other restrictive measures are still on the agenda and that Latvia wants all sanctions to be applied also to Belarus.

"We know that if the sanction regime for Belarus is not equally tough, Russia will be making various attempts to get around them," the minister said.

The minister said that the situation has been developing very fast and only a few weeks ago nobody could predict that the EU and the United States would be able to agree on such radical measures. In the context of the possible ban on Russian ships, Rinkevics believes it is essential that the decision is taken by the whole EU.

"I am not ruling out various restrictions on seafaring, but it is essential that this is a decision of the whole EU. If is done by only one country, it will be nice but ineffective," the minister said.

33343836413332332D333445362D3436

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220302ei32000dx


Defence Secretary Ben Wallace warned that Russia would use indiscriminate carpet...
7013 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日 22:14 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace warned that Russia would use indiscriminate carpet bombing tactics against Ukrainian cities.

He told Sky News that Russian advances were being hampered by resistance they had seen "footage of Ukrainians using UAVs to attack petrol train convoys, to go after logistical lines, we have seen railway lines blown up" but there had also been a switch in Moscow's tactics as a result.

"What you are seeing now is those heavy bombardments at night, they won't come into the cities as much, they will - I'm afraid, as we have seen tragically by the looks of things - carpet-bomb cities, indiscriminately in some cases.

"They will fly their air at night rather daytime because what we have seen is they get shot down in the daytime and they will slowly but surely try and surround the cities and then either bypass them or bombard them.

"That is the brutality I'm afraid we are witnessing and it's going to get worse."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace again rejected calls for RAF jets to enforce a no-fly zone, warning it would trigger a Europe-wide conflict and could also hamper the Ukrainian forces' ability to counter Russia's military.

He told Sky News: "If you have a no-fly zone you have to enforce a no-fly zone. That would involve British fighter jets shooting down Russian fighter jets, probably over Ukraine, that would lead to Article Five triggering of Nato and Nato is a self-defence pact, all 30 countries will come to each other's aid, the triggering of that Article Five would lead to a war against Russia across the whole of Europe."

A no-fly zone would also have to apply to Ukrainian jets, meaning they could not target Russian forces from the air, he added.

"If you had a no-fly zone in Ukraine, the overwhelming scale of the Russian army would be able to drive around with impunity, which it can't at the moment."

The Ministry of Defence has given on update on the latest intelligence on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

A tweet read: "While Russian forces have reportedly moved into the centre of Kherson in the south, overall gains across axes have been limited in the last 24 hours.

"This is probably due to a combination of ongoing logistical difficulties and strong Ukrainian resistance.

"Heavy Russian artillery and air strikes have continued to target built-up areas over the past 24 hours, primarily focused on the cities of Kharkiv, Kyiv, Mariupol and Chernihiv.

"The number of civilians displaced and forced to flee Putin's invasion has reportedly passed 660,000."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "The Russians are considerably behind their schedule, by days not hours, and that leads to stresses on their logistical supply chains.

"That's why you have seen some of these columns fairly grind to a halt.

"They have also been surprised by the strength of the Ukrainian resistance."

He told BBC Breakfast that "none of the major cities have been taken control of".

Although Russian troops had entered Kharkiv "it is a city of 1.4 million and they haven't taken control of it and they have suffered considerable casualties in doing so".

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said there was low morale among the Russian troops but Vladimir Putin's regime was "ruthless".

He told BBC Breakfast there was "huge amounts of low morale in the Russian forces, we've seen lots of surrenders".

"But that doesn't take away from the fact you have a very ruthless Russian armed forces leadership and a president who seems to know no limit to how much violence they will use to achieve their aims."

General Sir Adrian Bradshaw, Nato's former deputy supreme allied commander, has said Nato cannot impose a no-fly zone on Ukraine as this would lead to the "third world war".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "This is not like Iraq; we're up against sophisticated enemy with very capable air defence assets.

"This becomes a struggle between the forces of Nato and the forces of Russia, on the ground, quite probably from the sea, in the air, in the space domain, in the information domain and in the cyber domain.

"This is war. It amounts to 30 countries against Russia. This is the third world war in anybody's language.

"We cannot afford to let that happen," he added.

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian forces could lay siege to Ukraine's major cities.

"That's one of the Russian doctrines, which is effectively surround a city, bombard it indiscriminately and then eventually close in on a population that they hope to have broken, and indeed take over what's left of the city," he told BBC Breakfast.

"We've seen that in Chechnya before.

"The problem with that is Ukraine is a very, very large country, it is the size of France and Germany put together, it has a population of 44 million."

Mr Wallace warned that an occupying force would face the kind of insurgency faced by the Soviets in Afghanistan or the West in Iraq.

"Invading a country with overwhelming force is one thing, occupying a people of 44 million who don't want you in it is a very different thing."

The Ryanair CEO has said that the "most important thing that those in the West can do is drive up oil production," as the Russian army continues advancing onto Kyiv.

Speaking to Sky News, Michael O'Leary said: "We would still believe, hopefully, that the Ukrainian situation will be resolved in favour of Ukraine in the near to short term, but there's no doubt that if oil prices remain high, around 100 dollars a barrel, we are going to see a dramatic increase in supply.

"The Iranians are talking to the Americans about resolving the nuclear discussions ... They're already loading up tankers to export oil.

"The most important thing that we in the West can do is drive up oil production, because what hits Russia hardest is low oil prices and low gas prices."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said the UK was leading the way in supplying anti-air weapons to counter Russian jets.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today: "There are two ways to achieve a no-fly zone. One is the way that Britain has led the way in, which is arming the Ukrainians with anti-air capabilities, from the ground to the air, and the reason they are doing the bombing at night is because they can't - because of those weapon systems - the Russians cannot fly much in the day."

It has previously been confirmed that the UK was supplying anti-tank weapons to the Ukrainians but officials have been reluctant to publicly state what other arms have been supplied.

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian forces would "ruthlessly pummel" cities.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today: "What you have seen is the Russian pause on the outskirts and then ruthlessly pummel these cities with artillery and then hope to break the city."

But he said Russia would face "years of resistance" if it sought to occupy Ukraine.

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian troops had been deceived by their leaders and were suffering due to the lack of logistic support, meaning they were low on supplies and food.

"We have definitely seen cases of very quick surrenders by Russian forces, we have seen lots of abandonment of incredible pieces of equipment," he told BBC Radio 4's Today.

"That is what happens when your military leaders don't prepare you, lie to you or deceive you and also you base a military plan based on an arrogant assumption that you are the liberator."

He rejected a suggestion that Russian deserters should be offered asylum in the West, saying: "I take the view that the best thing that Russian deserters can do is go back to Russia, tell the Russian people they are being deceived, tell the Russian people that their military leaders are causing huge amounts of unnecessary suffering and losses because of either incompetence or arrogance, and they can go back and tell the mothers, who are wondering where their thousands of disappeared sons are."

The shadow minister for immigration Stephen Kinnock has said that he is "mystified" about why the British Government is not publishing the names of the Russian people that "we are sanctioning and getting on with the job".

Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny suggested a list of Russians that should be sanctioned, but the names of everyone on the list is yet to be published in the UK.

Speaking to Sky News, Mr Kinnock said the list "includes people like (Roman) Abramovich, (Alisher) Usmanov. We've seen the European Union and the United States publishing those names.

"I am just mystified as to why the British Government is not publishing the names of the people that we are sanctioning and getting on with the job.

"It's too slow and just looks like foot-dragging.

"The Government's got to step up and show the leadership that we must show just to reflect the tremendous courage and leadership that the people are showing."

The Latvian deputy Prime Minister has said that Russia is "turning into something similar to Northern Korea", as a Russian convoy nears Kyiv.

Speaking to Sky News, Dr Artis Pabriks, who is also the defence minister for Latvia, said: "We have no chance to retreat. We have to endure.

"We have to be on the one hand calm, but we have to give maximum support, military support, to Ukraine, and at the same time it would be sinister to allow representatives of Russian elites and their families still to enjoy the pleasantness of Western society ... while Ukrainian people are dying.

"Sanctions must be so hard that actually (the) Russian elite feels, but also (the) Russian population knows, that Russia is becoming isolated, Belarusians are becoming isolated, and turning into something similar to Northern Korea.

"This is the only chance to stop him (Mr Putin)."

Boris Johnson spoke to Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday, Downing Street said.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said Mr Johnson condemned the "abhorrent attacks on Ukraine in the recent hours and days".

"The Prime Minister told President Zelensky that the UK was rallying UN General Assembly members today, to ensure the strongest possible condemnation of Russia at this afternoon's UN meeting in New York," the spokeswoman added.

"Sharing his disgust at the attacks on Ukraine, the Prime Minister said the UK was doing everything possible to support the Ukrainian people and their resistance.

"President Zelensky thanked the Prime Minister for the UK's support and leadership in ensuring defensive aid reached Ukraine and said it had been vital in holding back Russian forces.

"Both leaders agreed on the need for sanctions to go further to exert maximum pressure on president Putin in the coming days.

"The Prime Minister said his thoughts and prayers, and those of the UK, were with the Ukrainian people."

The Ukrainian ambassador to the UK was given a standing ovation and cheered loudly by MPs after Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle confirmed he was in the chamber for Prime Minister's Questions.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson told MPs: "Putin has gravely miscalculated; in his abhorrent assault on a sovereign nation, he has underestimated the extraordinary fortitude of the Ukrainian people and the unity and resolve of the free world in standing up to his barbarism.

"The UN General Assembly will vote later today and we call on every nation to join us in condemning Russia and demanding that Putin turns his tanks around.

"If instead Putin doubles down then so shall we, further ratcheting up economic pressure and supporting Ukraine with finance, with weapons and with humanitarian assistance.

"Today the Disasters Emergency Committee is launching its Ukraine appeal and every pound donated by the British people will be matched by the Government, starting with £20 million."

Boris Johnson also said he told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky that the UK would "do everything we can to accelerate our transfer of... the weapons", adding: "We are certainly determined to do everything we can to help Ukrainians fleeing the theatre of conflict."

Labour Leader Sir Keir Starmer pressed the Prime Minister on why the Russian-Israeli owner of Chelsea FC, Roman Abramovich, has not been sanctioned.

At Prime Minister's Questions, Sir Keir said: "We must stand up to Putin and those who prop up his regime. Roman Abramovich is the owner of Chelsea Football Club and various other high-value assets in the United Kingdom. He's a person of interest to the Home Office because of his links to the Russian state and his public association with corrupt activity and practices.

"Last week, the Prime Minister said that Abramovich is facing sanctions. He later corrected the record to say that he isn't. Well, why on earth isn't he?"

Mr Johnson said it is not "appropriate" for him to comment on individual cases at this stage, adding: "But what I can say and I stand by what I've said in the House and what we put on the record, but be there no doubt that the actions that we've already taken, that this House has already taken, are having an effect in Moscow, and by exposing the ownership of properties, of companies in the way that we are, by sanctioning 275 individuals already, a further 100 last week, that the impact is being felt."

The Prime Minister added: "What we will publish in addition, is a full list of all those associated with the Putin regime."

Labour Leader Sir Keir Starmer asked the Prime Minister why Igor Shuvalov, Russian's former deputy prime minister, is not on the UK sanctions list when he appears on the EU's list.

Sir Keir said: "Last week, Putin summoned to the Kremlin the cronies who prop up his regime, they dip their hands in the blood of Putin's war.

"Among them was Igor Shuvalov, Putin's former deputy prime minister. Shuvalov owns two flats, not five minutes walk from this House. They're worth over £11 million. He is on the EU sanctions list, but he's not on the UK sanctions list. When will the Prime Minister sort this out?"

Boris Johnson replied: "I think the House should be proud of what we have done already. And I can tell him that there is more to be done. And thanks to the powers that this House and this Government has taken, we can sanction any individual, any company connected with the Putin regime.

"This Government was amongst the first in Europe to ban Aeroflot from our skies. This Government led the way last week in banning the use of Swift. And if he talked to any of our European partners, he would understand the leading role the UK has already paid and the impact that those sanctions are already having in Moscow."

Measures being brought forward to expose the ownership of properties will "continue to tighten the noose around Putin's regime", the Prime Minister said.

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said Igor Shuvalov's flats are registered under a company owned by the Russian politician and his wife. He said: "We only know which oligarch lurks beneath that shell company because of the information obtained and disclosed by Alexei Navalny. Navalny, of course, was poisoned by the Russian state and he now sits in a Putin jail.

"Transparency is essential to rooting out corruption. It should be built into our law but it's not. And I'm ashamed that we only know about Shuvalov's Westminster flats because a dissident risked his life. Is the Prime Minister?"

Boris Johnson said: "The UK of course is doing everything that we can to expose ill-gotten Russian loot and this has been something that we have been working on for a long time, and that we actually were the first to impose sanctions on those who were guilty of the poisoning of Alexei Navalny."

He added: "What we are bringing forward now is the exposure of the ownership of properties in London and across the whole of the UK in a way that has not been possible before and that I believe will continue to tighten the noose around Putin's regime."

He said the UK led the way on sanctioning the Russian central bank and other Russian banks, and added: "I'm afraid that we're still out in advance of several of our friends and partners. We want them to go further. I believe that they will. And we will continue to put pressure ineluctable pressure on the Putin regime."

Sir Keir Starmer hailed the bravery of Russian protesters, adding in the Commons: "They remind us that the Russian people are not our enemy, they are the victims of thieves who have stolen their wealth and stolen their chance of democracy.

"For too long Britain has been a safe haven for stolen money. Putin thinks we're too corrupted to do the right thing and put an end to it.

"Does the Prime Minister agree that this House and this country stands united in our support for Ukraine and now is the time to sanction every oligarch and crack open every shell company so we can prove Putin wrong?" the Labour leader asked.

Boris Johnson replied: "Yes, that's why this Government has brought forward the unprecedented measures that we have and I know that the whole House will agree with me that nothing we do in rooting out corruption and corrupt money in London or any other capital should for one minute - I want to agree with him very strongly - distract for where the true blame for this crisis lies, which is wholly and exclusively and entirely with Vladimir Putin and his regime.

"I'm glad that the benches opposite are as resolved as we are that Putin must fail in his venture and that we must ensure that we protect a sovereign, free and independent Ukraine, and that's what we're going to do.

"With the unity of this House, with the continued heroism and resolve of the Ukrainian people, which is so amazing that we've seen over the last few days, and with the unity of the West that we're seeing, which I think has also taken aback President Putin, I've no doubt at all that he will fail and we will succeed in protecting Ukraine."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said proposed legislation to expose property ownership does not come into force for 18 months if passed, warning it could be "far too long for the Ukrainian people".

He said Labour supports the "long overdue" Economic Crime Bill, but added: "The key plank to that Bill is a register of who truly owns property in the United Kingdom, but it doesn't come into force for existing owners, like Shuvalov, until 18 months after the Bill passes.

"At best that's autumn 2023, far too long for the Ukrainian people. Why are we giving Putin's cronies 18 months to quietly launder their money out of the UK property market and into another safe haven?"

Boris Johnson said: "I think the whole House should be proud of what we have done because we have led the way on this."

On the speed of results, he said: "On Thursday the Russian stock market fell by 250 billion dollars worth of assets that were wiped off. The rouble fell by about 40%.

"We are now in the third day in which the Russian stock market has not been able to open, that is thanks to the package of global sanctions, Western sanctions, that the UK has led in forcing on the Putin regime.

"He should acknowledge that."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford said that to "prosecute Putin and his regime the full range of war crime charges need to be used including the crime of aggression by a state".

He said: "With every passing hour the world is witnessing the horrors of Putin's war in Ukraine... these are war crimes happening in Europe right now. Vladimir Putin is a war criminal and one day soon Putin must face justice in The Hague.

"To prosecute Putin and his regime the full range of war crime charges need to be used including the crime of aggression by a state, but the UK's always refused to sign up to the prosecution of this crime in international law.

"Surely with Putin's crime of aggression in plain and horrific sight in Ukraine, now is the time to drop that opposition?

"Will the Prime Minister meet with me to discuss this and will he amend the UK War Crimes Act and will he support the ICC (International Criminal Court) prosecution for Putin for his crimes of aggression against the people of Ukraine?"

Mr Johnson replied: "I'm in principle of course happy to meet (him)... what we have seen already from Vladimir Putin's regime in the use of the munitions that they have already been dropping on innocent civilians, in my view, already fully qualifies as a war crime and I know that the ICC prosecutor is already investigating, and I am sure the whole House will support that."

Law firms representing oligarchs will "face sanctions" if they fail to comply with the sanctions regime against Putin's allies, Boris Johnson has said.

Conservative MP Bob Seely (Isle of Wight) said: "Key oligarchs enforce the Kremlin's hybrid conflict. In Britain one of its aims is to ensure safe passage for money flows offshore whilst law firms intimidate into silence those who would investigate, be it the media or even the National Crime Agency.

"Does the Prime Minister understand this is how state corruption happens and this is systemic, planned subversion? Does he realise the seriousness of what has been happening with the law firms and the finance companies in recent years?"

The Prime Minister replied: "The law firms in this country are regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. They were reminded on February 23 the need to comply with sanctions regulations and legislation.

"There are regular checks to ensure they are doing so. They have responsibilities under that regime to safeguard the UK and to protect the reputation of the Untied Kingdom legal services industry. Cleary they will face sanctions if they fail to do so."

Mr Seely also thanked the Ukrainian ambassador to the UK who was sat in the gallery watching Prime Minister's Questions.

Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves tweeted: "We need action against Russian oligarchs in weeks, not months.

"That's why we need swift enactment of the register of foreign and beneficial ownership in the UK by 31 March. The government must take this action on Putin's cronies - they will have Labour's support to do so."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford called on the Prime Minister to "waive all visa requirements for the people Ukraine who are fleeing war".

He said in the Commons: "This is a moment for Europe to stand united in the face of Putin's war. The EU have acted and waived all visa requirements for Ukrainian refugees, the UK Government stands alone in our continent in so far refusing to do the same.

"Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's First Minister, has made clear our country stands ready to open our borders and our hearts to the people of the Ukraine, but the UK Government must bring down the barriers. Will the Prime Minister join with our European partners and waive all visa requirements for the people Ukraine who are fleeing war?"

Mr Johnson replied: "The EU already, because of its Schengen border-free zone, has its own arrangements with Ukraine. They differed for a long time from those of the UK, but what we do have is a plan to be as generous as we possibly can to the people of Ukraine and the numbers that will come just under our family reunion scheme could be in the hundreds of thousands, to say nothing of the special new path that we're opening up for those coming, the humanitarian path that is also uncapped."

"What we won't do is simply abandon all checks. We don't think that, that is sensible, particularly in view of the security concerns, the reasonable security concerns about people coming from that theatre of war."

The Government should give money from a Conservative donor with Russian links to Ukrainian humanitarian causes, the Prime Minister has been told.

Labour MP Bill Esterson (Sefton Central) said: "Will the Prime Minister instruct the Conservative Party to give to Ukrainian humanitarian causes the £2m they have accepted from Lubov Chernukhin? This includes £80,000 referred to in data released today by the Electoral Commission.

"I know he doesn't want to tar everyone with Russian links with the same brush and neither do I, but leaked documents... show that Vladimir Chernukhin received 8 million US dollars from a Russian member of parliament, an ally of Putin who was later sanctioned by the United States.

"This is an opportunity for the Conservative Party and for the Prime Minister to end the suspicion of conflict of interests with Putin whilst showing solidarity with the Ukrainian people."

Boris Johnson replied: "It is absolutely vital if we are to have a successful outcome in what we are trying to do collectively, united with Ukraine, that we demonstrate that this is not about the Russian people, it is about the Putin regime."

The UK is not guaranteeing the territorial integrity of Ukraine, a Labour former minister has said.

At Prime Minister's Questions, chairman of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Russia Chris Bryant said: "Putin is the only enemy but I do feel ashamed. The United Kingdom signed the Budapest Accord in 1994, guaranteeing the territorial integrity of Ukraine."

Pointing towards heraldic shields in the House of Commons chamber commemorating each of the MPs killed during both World Wars, Mr Bryant added: "The 23 men who once sat on these benches gave their lives for plucky little Belgium; they have shields down that end, 22 did the same for Poland; they have shields down this end.

"And we are not guaranteeing the territorial integrity of Ukraine. I don't want war, nobody wants war. We are not even sanctioning Sergey Shoygu, the Russian defence minister, yet. Nor Igor Osipov, the commander of the Black Sea fleet."

The MP for Rhondda went on to name other individuals including Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich, adding: "Why don't we use parliamentary privilege to get this out there so the lawyers can't attack the sanctions that we must surely bring, rapidly, today?"

Boris Johnson said the whole House will understand his feelings and his frustration "that no country in the West is going directly to the support of the Ukrainians with direct military assistance" but insisted "that is a reality that we simply have to accept".

He added: "Because the consequences of a direct confrontation between the UK and Russia would be I think, and indeed other Western countries and Russia, would not be easy to control. And if I can repeat the point I made earlier, I think they would play directly into Putin's narrative."

Downing Street said possible war crimes were occurring "almost hourly" in Ukraine.

Asked whether Boris Johnson regarded the Russian attack on the Kyiv holocaust memorial at Babi Yar or the targeting of apartment blocks as war crimes, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "I think all of those you've listed could fall in that category.

"Obviously, formally it will be for a criminal court to make that ruling but I think no one can be in any doubt that what we're seeing daily, almost hourly now, are horrific acts that would certainly appear to be war crimes."

The spokesman confirmed it was the first time No 10 had explicitly stated that view.

A "significant proportion" of people who are set to appear on a published UK Government list of people in Briton deemed to have links with Vladimir Putin's regime will be sanctioned, No 10 said.

Boris Johnson told MPs that his administration was planning to publish "a full list of all those associated with the Putin regime" as part of UK efforts against the Russian president following his invasion of Ukraine.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman told reporters: "I think it is in the interest of transparency (to publish the list).

"We want to highlight the individuals - and I think you will have seen some MPs doing that in the House, using privilege - and where possible we will publish further details so the public can see where we believe there are individuals who are benefitting from the Putin regime."

Asked whether those on the list could face sanctions, the spokesman replied: "I think you would expect that a significant proportion would end up on our sanctions regime or indeed sanctions we are co-ordinating with the EU and the US.

"I just can't be definitive at this point."

Businesses and individuals should "think very carefully" about associating themselves with people who the UK Government is preparing to name as having associations with Vladimir Putin, according to Downing Street.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman, asked whether the list would serve as a warning not to do business with those who feature, said: "It may well have that effect.

"I think what we are trying to do across the board, whether it is with businesses or oligarchs or in the cultural sector as well, is to make clear that, even where we are not taking legislative action, people should think very carefully about how they engage with any organisations that may be assisting Putin - even inadvertently - in the attack and invasion of Ukraine."

The Prime Minister's press secretary, asked whether the Conservative Party would take that advice on board, replied: "Yes."

The press secretary was also asked whether the Tories would return any money if a party donor appeared on the sanctions list.

She called it a "hypothetical question" and said there were checks in place on donations made to UK political parties.

The Prime Minister wants to see a message from the United Nations that the "world abhors" the violence it is seeing in Ukraine, according to his official spokesman.

The UN general assembly is due to meet in New York on Wednesday to vote on a motion demanding an immediate halt to Russia's offensive, and withdrawal of all Moscow's troops.

Boris Johnson's official spokesman, asked what the UK wanted to see out of the meeting, said: "We want a clear message from the UN that makes clear that the world abhors what they are seeing in Ukraine - the violence, the unprovoked attack on a democratic country is completely unacceptable.

"The Prime Minister is speaking to, and has been speaking with, a number of leaders to make sure we speak whenever possible with a unified voice on this and send a direct message to Vladimir Putin."

Asked what would happen to diplomatic relations with countries who vote against or abstain on the motion, the No 10 official said he could not "predict what individual countries will do".

Labour advised against Britons travelling to fight in Ukraine.

A spokesperson for the party told the PA news agency: "We categorically do not support Brits going to fight."

The spokesperson earlier told reporters: "We totally understand people's desire to want to support the Ukrainian people in any way that they can and there are plenty of excellent charitable initiatives ... that are looking at ways in which the Ukrainian people can be supported, and I think those are the routes that people should be looking at."

Online fashion giant Asos has announced it is quitting Russia following the invasion of Ukraine.

A spokesperson for the company said: "Immediately following the invasion, Asos suspended sales in Ukraine as it became impossible to serve customers there.

"Against the backdrop of the continuing war, Asos has decided that it is neither practical nor right to continue to trade in Russia, and has, therefore, today suspended our operations there."

The director-general of the World Health Organisation (WHO) World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned of dangerously low oxygen supply levels in Ukraine's hospitals due to the conflict.

Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a WHO press conference that these low levels will impact the ability of doctors to treat patients with Covid-19.

"Critical shortages of oxygen will have an impact on the ability to treat patients with Covid-19 and many other conditions", he said.

He added that "at least" three major oxygen plants have closed in the country.

"At least three major oxygen plants in Ukraine have now closed and we are seeking ways of accessing oxygen from neighbouring countries, and ways to deliver it safely to where it's needed", he said.

Sanctions imposed against Russia over the invasion of Ukraine apply to cryptoassets, Parliament has been told.

The Government assurance came amid concerns raised at Westminster that the digital currency system could be used by the Kremlin to dodge penalties.

Tory frontbencher Baroness Penn told the House of Lords: "The Russia regulations imposing sanctions on Russia apply to crytoassets."

Conservative former Cabinet minister Lord Forsyth of Drumlean said: "Is it a practical proposition, for example, to ask the providers of cryptocurrency facilities to remove from their list anyone with a Russian email address?"

Lady Penn said: "In terms of firms placing a block on Russian transactions, the Government and FCA have been communicating with crypto firms to ensure that they understand their obligations with regards to sanctions.

"Their obligations include applying risk-based controls to mitigate the risk of sanctions evasion. However, we do not require all Russian persons have their accounts suspended or frozen, which would not be in line with the approach we are taking currently."

Russia's attack on Ukraine and the ensuing conflict threatens to have a "catastrophic impact" on the world's wheat production, it has been warned at Westminster amid concerns over UK food security.

The issue was raised in Parliament by the Bishop of Exeter, the Rt Rev Robert Atwell.

He said: "What assessment has the Government made of our nation's food security in the light of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, mindful of the fact that those two nations between themselves produce 30% of the world's wheat, and in anticipation of the loss of that harvest is going to have a catastrophic impact?

"Would the minister agree with me that now is the moment for us to give active encouragement and increase support to our hardworking farmers as they try to guarantee our nation's food supply, particularly with household bills going up?"

Responding, environment minister Lord Benyon said an assessment of food security was now required by law.

He said: "It shows it's been more or less static for at least two decades and we want to make sure that we increase the amount of food that we produce locally.

"On the question of Ukraine, it's obviously too early to say the impact this will have on what imports as a result of that conflict, but we want to make sure that we are working with other departments to make sure we are as prepared as possible, and the market is able to adjust itself."

Russia has been reprimanded by the United Nations General Assembly, where a motion demanding Moscow immediately stops the invasion of Ukraine was overwhelmingly backed.

Meeting in New York, 141 nations voted in favour of the motion calling for the withdrawal of all occupying forces, while five were against and 35 countries abstained.

Resolutions of the General Assembly are not legally binding but do show the strength of international feeling and further diplomatically isolates Russia at the UN.

The Irish premier has indicated that the country may be required to take in well over the 20,000 Ukrainian refugees estimated in the early days of the Russian invasion.

Micheal Martin told reporters that it was "hard to be definitive".

However, he said it was possible that country could take in "multiples of 20,000" refugees displaced by the war.

He said a "people of Ireland response" would be required.

"We've got to be ready as a country in terms of the more general consequences, migration being one."

Micheal Martin confirmed that the Irish Government was working to secure accommodation for Ukrainian refugees arriving in the country.

He also said that the Government could not act alone, as it prepares for the arrival of people fleeing the Russian invasion.

"It will be at a scale and at a level that we will require volunteers, people in civil society, to work with us to help people when they come here."

Ofcom has launched a further 12 investigations into the "due impartiality" of programmes on RT news channel, the broadcast watchdog has announced.

In a statement, the UK regulator said they are "very concerned by the volume of programmes on RT that are raising potential issues under the Broadcasting Code".

In total, the media watchdog are investigating 27 programmes previously broadcast on RT news.

Ofcom said that as the investigations progress they are "considering whether RT should retain a UK licence".

Chief executive Dame Melanie Dawes previously said: "Given the serious ongoing situation in Ukraine, we will be concluding our investigations into RT as a matter of urgency."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss declared Russia "isolated" after the UN General Assembly motion reprimanding Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

She tweeted: "The £UN General Assembly has voted with an overwhelming majority condemning Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"Russia is isolated.

"The United Kingdom stands with Ukraine."

Boris Johnson said "rarely has the contrast between right and wrong been so stark" after a UN General Assembly motion condemning Russia's invasion was overwhelmingly backed.

The Prime Minister said: "We are united in our abhorrence to the evil actions of Putin's regime and stand side-by-side on the international stage as we deplore its aggression in the strongest possible terms.

"Rarely has the contrast between right and wrong been so stark. 141 countries voted to condemn Putin's war.

"Along with my almost daily conversations with President Volodymyr Zelensky, I have engaged world leaders in our joint mission to denounce Russia's actions and make clear - for the sake of innocent civilians - Russia should withdraw from Ukraine and Putin must fail.

"We are - and will continue to be - unified in our resounding admiration for the courage and bravery of President Volodymyr Zelensky and the Ukrainian people".

Alexander Temerko, a major Tory donor from the former Soviet Union, said Vladimir Putin is "insane" but is "not Doctor Evil".

The British citizen born in Ukraine told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "I think he's driving in ambition, like a collector of land, and he tries to restore the Soviet Union.

"He doesn't understand, deeply, profoundly, doesn't understand what Ukraine now is."

Asked if the Russian President is like a James Bond villain who could launch nuclear weapons to save himself, Mr Temerko said: "Sorry, he is insane and an idiot, but not Doctor Evil. He is an old man who is not well, probably, and not well mentally.

"Today only two forces can help stop Russia, that is the Ukraine army and the Ukrainian people, and second the solidarity of all democratic worlds."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK and 37 allies have "referred atrocities in Ukraine" to the International Criminal Court.

She wrote in a tweet: "(The UK) and 37 of our allies have referred atrocities in Ukraine to the @IntlCrimCourt.

"Russia is using indiscriminate force against innocent civilians in its illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine.

"The Putin regime must be held accountable."

The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office said the referral of Russia to the International Criminal Court by 38 countries, including the UK, was the largest referral in the court's history.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "Putin's military machine is targeting civilians indiscriminately and tearing through towns across Ukraine.

"An investigation by the International Criminal Court into Russia's barbaric acts is urgently needed and it is right that those responsible are held to account. The UK will work closely with allies to ensure justice is done."

Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Secretary Dominic Raab added: "The critical task now is to preserve properly all evidence of war crimes.

"Any Russian leader or officer carrying out orders that amount to war crimes should know they face ending up in the dock of a court and ultimately in prison."

The International Criminal Court (ICC) investigates and, where warranted, tries individuals charged with the most serious crimes of concern to the international community including genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and the crime of aggression.

Boris Johnson has tweeted about the 38 countries who have made "the largest ever referral to the International Criminal Court for Russia's barbaric invasion of Ukraine".

The Prime Minister wrote: "Tonight 38 countries from across the world have made the largest ever referral to the International Criminal Court for Russia's barbaric invasion of Ukraine.

"We are crystal clear that Putin cannot commit these horrific acts with impunity."

International Criminal Court prosecutor Karim Khan said he has actively begun an investigation into the war in Ukraine after a referral from the UK and allies.

In a statement, he said: "I have notified the ICC Presidency a few moments ago of my decision to immediately proceed with active investigations in the situation. Our work in the collection of evidence has now commenced."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220302ei32001p5


News; International
Russia Escalates Attacks on Major Ukrainian Cities; Kremlin Warns Russians not to protest Against War; Latvian PM: Kremlin's "War Crimes" in Ukraine Must Stop; Ukraine asks IAEA for help Keeping Nuclear Plants Safe; Assets Seized as Sanctions on Russia Begin to Bite; Putin: Russians and Ukrainians are one People. Aired 11a-12p ET
Julia Chatterley, Becky Anderson, Scott Mclean, Nic Robertson, Anna Stewart, Alex Thomas
8778 字
2022 年 3 月 3 日
CNN: Special/Live Event
CNNSP
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[11:00:00]

JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST: He suggested that the Russians are blocking aid coming into the country.

We don't have independent verification of that. But if we get it, we will bring that to you. His ultimate message was where the line of defense between Russia and civilization? Our continuing coverage begins after this.

ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.

CHATTERLEY: You're watching CNN; I'm Julia Chatterley in New York. We continue our special coverage of the humanitarian crisis and the economic cost of war in Ukraine.

BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST: I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. Let's get you a look at the very latest headlines. We fear for our families we fear for our country the words of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who spoke to reporters a short time ago, take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: I think if someone is not afraid to lose their life or the lives of their children, then I think that's not a healthy person. So if you're sending somebody to war, as it's happening in that other country and you're not thinking that these people may die, and you're not afraid, you don't have any emotion.

You don't feel any emotion about this. I don't think that's normal. So as any living being I am - I fear for the lives of my family. I asked for a no-fly zone. I asked President Biden and Schultz and Macron I think, because I don't remember because I have 20, 23 international phone calls every day. Every day I do this. And I said if you can't provide a no-fly zone right now, then tell it was when?

If you can't give Ukrainians a date, when how long do you need? How many people should still be blown up? How many arms and legs and heads? How many should be severed? So that you understand, so that you understand I will go and I'll count them. And we will wait until we have a sufficient number.

But if you can't even give us the dates, that's what's happened with the sanctions. I asked for preventive sanctions before the war. You will see they will not advance. Give us a full package of sanctions I asked all the leaders for this. You know, the response was, thank God. Thank God the whole world can see this act that this is working. I asked to the support.

Right now I'm asking for a no-fly zone and if you don't have the strength to provide no fly zones and give me planes. Would that not be fair?

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ANDERSON: Well, that is Volodymyr Zelensky; he was speaking to reporters for about an hour that has just finished. Meantime, his second round of Ukrainian Russian ceasefire talks is underway the delegations meeting at an undisclosed location along Ukraine's border with Belarus and each shaking each other's hands.

The Ukrainian Presidential Adviser says key issues under discussion include an immediate truce and the opening of humanitarian corridors. The first round of talks ended on Monday without any progress. Well, Russia is stepping up its attacks on Ukrainian cities. In Kherson the Mayor is indicating it's now under Russian control.

But British military intelligence says the situation remains unclear. We do know Kherson's Mayor is urging residents to follow orders from those he calls armed visitors. The southern city is strategically important. It is located near the Black Sea just north of Russian occupied Crimea.

At the same time, Russian troops are also laying siege to the Southern City of Mariupol cutting that off from the rest of the world. It hasn't fallen. But its Mayor says Mariupol needs help. And it needs it fast because the Russian military is creating what he calls a humanitarian catastrophe, blocking food supplies. The Deputy Mayor telling CNN "We are waiting for military help".

Well, CNN's Scott McLean joining us now from Lviv in Western Ukraine. I do want to talk about what we understand to be happening on the ground. I know it's extremely difficult to get clear indication of what is happening across the country. Let's start with that crucial southern part of Ukraine right now. What do we know at this point?

SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Becky yes. So things are not looking good in Mariupol right now. As you said humanitarian crisis going on and that is because Russian troops have essentially surrounded the city.

[11:05:00]

MCLEAN: The Mayor - sorry the Deputy Mayor said this morning, they have been shelled for more than 24 hours right now. They have no electricity, no sewage, no running water, the only thing that they have right now is natural gas still running.

So you can imagine what it is like inside of that city. The Ukrainian National Guard says that there are no plans to surrender at all, though they acknowledge the situation right now is obviously difficult. You mentioned Kherson as well, that city, also on the southern part of Ukraine appears to have fallen to the Russians.

You said it yourself, Becky, that the Mayor has indicated that armed people have come to the city hall and essentially said that they're going to be setting up an administration that looks very similar to the two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine and the arrangement that they've had in the past.

Right now, the Mayor says that the Ukrainian flag continues to fly, but that people need to follow the directions of the Russian soldiers in order to keep it that way and keep this sort of tense understanding at least that they have at the moment. But it doesn't seem like people are all that interested in that at the moment.

They are showing signs of defiance of video shot just recently showed people waving a Ukrainian flag right in front of a line of tanks and Russian soldiers that had parked outside of the regional administration building. Obviously, things are tough right now.

So a local resident on the ground says that there is food and medicine shortages, there has been looting and Russian soldiers have been arresting people as well, which is why they're telling people not to antagonize those soldiers.

And then Becky, the situation in Kyiv also seems to be heating up a little bit as well. Just yesterday, just late last night, there was an explosion that took place right near the central train station. In fact, it shattered the windows of that station, or some of the windows of that station.

And this explosion, actually, there was debris from the damage to building on a platform just 700 feet from that station as well. And so at this point, they're not entirely certain what caused the blast, but they think that it might have been a cruise missile being shot down by Ukrainian anti-aircraft defense systems, and then the debris ended up near the train station, because you would hope that that would not be a target for the Russians, obviously, Becky.

KING: Right. And meantime, in the last hour, and as you describe the Russian assaults, the invasion on the country and as I understand it, President Macron of France has spoken to the Russian President, and France has said and I quote here, the worst is yet to come. That's the line from Elysee Palace following that call. What more do we know?

MCLEAN: I can tell you they're certainly planning on the worst yet to come. You know, a million people have already fled this country. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees says that if the fighting doesn't stop, you could have millions upon millions more.

What's interesting Becky, is that the situation at the border seems to have eased a little bit, it's quite easy to pass the border on cars, by car or even by foot at most of the crossings into Poland. But a colleague of mine just went through that way earlier today and they said that there were long lineups getting into the country, not because people want to come back into Ukraine.

But because there is so many aid trucks trying to get through the border trying to get through checkpoints, which is obviously desperately needed considering the situation here considering the food shortages going on in Mariupol food shortages going on in Kherson and they're trying desperately to get supplies to those frontlines Becky.

ANDERSON: Scott McLean is in Lviv. Scott, thank you very much indeed for that. And just a little more on that call between Macron and Putin, according to a source at the Elysee Palace and I quote here this conversation is unfortunately an occasion to hear the President Putin will continue military interventions and to go all the way.

Well, Russia's invasion of Ukraine is based on unjustified claims by Russia's President. Sam Kiley looks at the cruel irony of Vladimir Putin's rationale with a visit to one Ukrainian Jewish community have a look at this.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Air raid sirens in Uman, civilian seeking shelter from Russian bombs and what Vladimir Putin says is partly a campaign to read Ukraine of a Nazi leadership. The absurdity of this claim lost on no one. We're heading to the basement of a synagogue.

[11:10:00]

KILEY (voice over): The Jewish population of Ukraine has suffered terribly over the last few 100 years. It's had pogroms that have been inflicted on it by the - regime, it's suffered miserably under Stalin and of course, the Jews here were murdered on mass by Hitler.

The Tomb of Rabbi Nachman of Breslov is a pilgrimage site for thousands of Hasidic Jews, and has flourished under Ukraine's recent governments. Now, the streets of its Jewish community are almost deserted the result of Putin so called de-nazification program. Military sites in the town was bombed on a day one of the Russian campaign against Ukraine.

KILEY (on camera): Do you think Ukraine has a government of national socialists of Nazis that is what Putin says?

RABBI YEHUDA TURGIMAN, UMAN, UKRAINE: No, I think they're in Ukraine - you see the two Ukraine in the last year that they give us to come to - they don't make us problem.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have been living here for seven months and it's been amazing, very loving, very caring for the Jewish people. KILEY (voice over): Putin's called on Ukraine's military to rise against the government, which he says, is a gang of drug addicts and Neo Nazis who settled in Kyiv and took the entire Ukrainian people hostage. On Tuesday, Russian bombing of Kyiv's radio tower also damaged a holocaust memorial at the Baby Yah where more than 30,000 people were murdered in 1941. Many tens of thousands were murdered later.

Now, Ukraine's Jewish President suggested that Putin is following Hitler's lead. He said this kind of a missile strike demonstrates that for many people in Russia, our Kyiv is absolutely alien. They don't know anything about our capital about our history. But they have an order two erase, our history, two erase our country, two erase all of us. In Uman, the synagogues underground - is a bunker for Jew and Gentile alike.

DASHA BORSCHT, UMAN, UKRAINE RESIDENT: I know that Uman is Jewish, but exactly this place where we are. I just know that it's bomb shell areas. Safe to be here that's why I am here.

KILEY (voice over): Like many people in this town, Dasha and her family are joining an Exodus out of Ukraine. For those left behind, there's little but the promise of a long hard winter. Sam Kiley, CNN in Uman.

(END VIDETAPE)

CHATTERLEY: In Russia, the Kremlin warning against further anti-war protests, saying it introduced extra measures to "Ensure law and order". More than 7500 protesters have been arrested over the past week. That's according to an independent organization that tracks human rights violations in the country.

The Russian military say around 500 soldiers have died so far. According to Ukraine, around 6000 Russian troops have been killed. Nic Robertson is live in Moscow for his us. Nic, whichever way you look at this, that's several 1000 families that have had a family member a loved one arrested.

We don't know the actual number of those have lost lives. But that's again, many, many families in Russia that are going to have loved ones that simply don't come home. Is there any sense of that? We've talked about this before, but a sense of that, from the people that you're speaking to in Russia.

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: The Kremlin says that it's sorry for those families who've lost husbands or sons in the conflict so far. The Kremlin says that this is a necessary war, the Kremlin says that they're fighting, you know, a seven year seven years of the government in Kyiv's aggression towards Russia.

That's the Russian view from the government. When you go on the streets, you hear different versions of that, because that's what's played out on state media here. I was just out talking to people this afternoon. And there's an interesting split. It's not a hard and fast split, but generally older generations believe what they're seeing on state TV, mostly because that's where they get most of their information. I was asking people, you know, where do you get your information? And older people I was talking to generally were saying the television, some get a little bit on the internet.

But couple of people actually repeated to me what the government is saying that this is unnecessary war. It's not the start of a war. It's stopping a war. This is what the government says it's stopping Ukraine's war. So that message that the government has, and I talked to people as well about the Russian casualties among, you know Russian soldiers.

And people we're sorry to hear that I talked to people about the civilian casualties on the Ukrainian side and whether or not they were they even knew if that was happening. They're not getting any information about it on state television here. Some people did.

[11:15:00]

ROBERTSON: I find in the younger generation people were very sympathetic towards Ukrainians and actually saddened and angry with what their government is doing and really feeling that their government is telling them lies over state media that they get their information, either from talking to friends in Ukraine, or talking or talking, you know, look going on the internet using social media a lot more rather than relying on state media.

So there really is that split, but the majority of people by polling here, at least, that's funded by the Kremlin; the majority still seems to support President Putin. And I would say that was that's the experience I found on the streets today that the majority of people I spoke to did sort of fall in line with the Kremlin not everyone, and not everyone by any means but the majority.

CHATTERLEY: Yes, but it's important where you get your information from and the source of that information and that does divide tends to divide by age group too Nic, thank you for that Nic Robertson there. Now something else the country faces the Russian Ruble trading at fresh record lows, one Ruble is now worth less than one U.S. Penny.

Also today, Russian stocks are being removed from index provider MSCI Emerging Market Index they're calling Russian markets "Un-investable" and this means fund managers that track or replicate mirror the index will also have to sell Russian stocks too.

The Russian stock market, of course, remains closed yet again today, which means if you can't sell in Russia, you sell elsewhere. Russian stocks trading in London have lost some 98 percent of their value just over the past two weeks.

And in commodity land a volatile day for oil once again currently low as you can see by around 1 percent. Earlier today, Brent oil prices leaped above $118 a barrel that's a 14 year high. Wheat prices in the meantime, still surging Russia and Ukraine of course key global exporters. Wheat as you can see by that chart, up more than 70 percent year over year. We're experiencing the biggest weekly rise in broader commodity prices in more than 50 years.

Now, the United States has planned to impose new sanctions on Russian oligarchs and members of their families as soon as today. That's according to sources familiar with the matter. U.S. President Joe Biden had promised to go after what he calls - gotten gains of the oligarchs including yachts and private jets.

The U.S. sanctions are expected to include many of the same oligarchs targeted with sanctions by the European Union earlier this week. In the meantime, banking giant JP Morgan is warning that Western sanctions have "Significantly increased" the likelihood of a Russian debt default, the country has the funds, but perhaps not the access to make the payments.

Anna Stewart joins me now. Anna, they may not have the access, nor may they have the will. The reason why you pay your debts and you pay interest on your debts is because you hope to borrow again in the future at some point. That's looking likely at any time soon.

ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, repaying debts would be more challenging as a result of sanctions and assets being frozen in payment issues. But really, it's whether or not Russia actually wants to pay back its debt, some of which do fall due in the next couple of months.

Looking at the picture right now, and the fact that Russia is doing everything it can to actively prevent capital flowing out of the country, the stock market is closed for the fourth day, capital controls for foreign companies, so they can't sell off assets, I would suspect the answer to that is no.

Now the good news is that wouldn't have a huge contagion effect. It's actually quite a small chunk really of its external debts much bigger is corporate debt. Now that could be very painful for some investors, I imagine. And there are a few big payments coming up, we can show you some of those Gazprom is probably the biggest.

And I wonder actually whether Russia will try and prevent the servicing of corporate debt externally, given the capital controls they've already announced. So that's something to look at. And the days come there you go deadlines are coming up to you.

CHATTERLEY: Really important point. But that's a really important point because sometimes you trust corporates more than you trust governments. And we saw that during the financial crisis in the European debt crisis too. What about the oligarchs and a low let's talk about this briefly, where we've seen some sanction.

We've seen many that haven't, but some that haven't been sanctioned, sort of acting like they anticipate being sanctioned.

STEWART: This is really interesting. And following on, of course, from the announcement we've just had from the Biden Administration, who are going to add more names to the list following the EU and probably bigger, more expansive sanctions as well.

But we are seeing these enacted so France has actually seized a super yacht owned by Igor Sechin. He's the CEO of Rosneft and also a close ally of President Putin. It's easy, though, isn't it to well, not easy, but it's easier to freeze assets when they're physical assets that you can see so fast cars, private jets, super yachts, palaces around Europe.

Much harder though is going off to the wealth is squirreled away in very opaque layers of shell companies and offshore countries. That will be much, much more challenging I think. Russian oligarchs aren't going to be too worried at this age. I wouldn't have thought it's probably an irritation. I don't think they're going to penniless anytime soon.

[11:20:00]

CHATTERLEY: I agree with you but their lifestyles are being heavily curtailed and that matters too, Anna Stewart, thank you. OK, coming up after this with Russia intensifying its attacks on Ukrainian cities, President Zelensky says thousands of foreign fighters are joining the war ahead. Will ask the prime minister of Latvia about their parliament's vote to allow citizens to go and fight in Ukraine.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ANDERSON: With NATO saying Russia is shifting to more direct attacks on Ukrainian cities. Ukraine's president says the first wave of foreign fighters has arrived, he didn't specify where the 16,000 volunteers had come from.

But on Monday, Latvia's parliament voted to allow its citizens to fight in Ukraine. That's despite the fact that it does not share a border with Ukraine. It does, however, share a border with Russia. Well, the Prime Minister of Latvia, Krisjanis Karins joins me now live from the capital of Riga. And so how many Latvians have gone to fight in Ukraine? Or do you think may go to fight in Ukraine?

KRISJANIS KARINS, LATVIAN PRIME MINISTER: Well, I don't have any specific information on the numbers. But certainly what our Parliament did was decriminalized this fact. Most countries don't like their citizens participating in wars outside of their own country if they're not in the armed forces with a distinct order to do so.

In this case, we've opened up the opportunity because many people in my country certainly we all feel that this is Putin's direct attack on democratic countries. Ukraine is a democratic country. This imperialistic brutal attack that Putin is doing the invasion of Ukraine is very difficult to fathom.

The government is supporting Ukraine in many ways with funds with material with weapons. We have a huge outpouring of grassroots support people donating money, people taking refugees into their own homes, wonderful support, and we're simply allowing if someone wants to go fight that that would not be a crime. ANDERSON: But with the scale of the invasion escalating fast, are you OK with the prospect that that Latvians may die fighting for another country?

KARINS: Once again, what each individual does is really an individual's choice. What we do as a country is support the Ukrainian government in any and all ways possible. We've done that so far, and we will continue doing this.

ANDERSON: Interesting. Following yesterday's vote at the UNGA you tweeted and I quote you here, "The international community has spoken clearly today, 141 countries are demanding Putin's regime to stop the war and cease its aggression against Ukraine.

The war crimes of Kremlin's regime and killing of innocent people must stop #StandWithUkraine. So the unanimous vote is for sure a positive step. I'm trying to get a sense for our viewers as to what a non- binding U.N. resolution means practically for Ukrainians who are under assault besieged on the ground.

[11:25:00]

KARINS: Well, this is an unprecedented worldwide support and actually a condemnation of Putin's war in Ukraine. 141 for the motion only four countries against them, if we look at the list of those countries, North Korea, Eritrea, Belarus, Syria, these are countries, shall we say not the best friends maybe.

ANDERSON: So, this is a diplomatic sort of result as far as the world is concerned. But I'm wondering about how people will be protected on the ground. You've said that establishing a no fly zone over Ukraine would lead to NATO forces indirect war with Russia.

But President Zelensky just in the last hour, once again, calling for a no fly zone to avoid what he says are war crimes. NATO has involved enforce the closure of skies in other conflict zones, so why not now?

KARINS: Again, the situation in this conflict is slightly different. What many NATO members are doing and European Union member states are doing is providing all kinds of support to the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian army. This is being done on a bilateral basis.

And even the European Union for the first time decided to collectively support Ukraine militarily. That is, right now what is being done on a quite massive level?

ANDERSON: Right. But with respect a no fly zone, according to President Zelensky could make an enormous amount of difference in preventing attacks from an Air Force, which, frankly, is far, far superior to Ukraine. So just I put you again, do you see a time when that is a possibility?

KARINS: I don't think anyone is interested in a major world war coming out of all this because of course; a no fly zone would put NATO forces in direct opposition to Russian forces. But what we are seeing is the Ukrainians continued ability to fight also in the air, they have active air defenses, and they have fighters also in the air, so no one is having supremacy over the Ukrainian skies.

And this is a great tribute to the tremendous strength and durability of the Ukrainian army. And it says bucket loads about the actual strength of the Russian military.

ANDERSON: That's not to suggest that that superiority won't be established in the days to come, unfortunately. And just lastly, Antony Blinken will travel to Europe later this week. Latvia is on its scheduled agenda. What will you are asking of the U.S. at this point?

KARINS: Well, we're speaking with all of our allies, also including the U.S. We're very thankful for the enhanced U.S. presence throughout the eastern flank also in Latvia, so there are additional U.S. forces, U.S. military equipment in Latvia in other countries on the eastern flank.

What we have to talk about is how we can all continue to work together the transatlantic bond, the NATO bond, which is strong and I can say that Putin has made us stronger and more united than ever.

ANDERSON: With that we'll leave it there. Sir, we thank you very much indeed for joining us. The Prime Minister is speaking to you live. While Ukraine asking for helps keeping nuclear plants safe, what can be done to protect those? I'll ask that you head of the International Atomic Energy Agency up next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[11:30:00]

CHATTERLEY: Welcome back. I'm Julia Chatterley in New York.

ANDERSON: I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. Now the International Atomic Energy Agency is calling on Russia to stop actions against nuclear facilities in Ukraine. The IAEA member states passed a resolution just a short time ago condemning Russia's aggressive activity as they call it and attacks against nuclear sites in Ukraine and seizing and taking control of nuclear facilities.

And quote "Well, Ukraine has 15 nuclear reactors, including the largest power plant in Europe, the nuclear power plant in Europe". Russia claims to have taken control of the area around that massive plant.

Well, on Wednesday, Ukrainian civilian set up a roadblock hoping to stop Russians from getting to it. The Director General of the IAEA Rafael Grossi, Rafael Mariano Grossi says and I quote, "The best action to ensure the safety and security of Ukraine's nuclear facilities and its people would be for this armed conflict to end now".

Well, Rafael Grossi joins me now from Vienna. Welcome, sir. With all due respect, the armed conflict doesn't look as if it's about to end any time soon. In fact, Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said earlier today the Third World War involving NATO and Russia would be, "nuclear". Should we be concerned or just how concerned should we be? RAFAEL MARIANO GROSSI, DIRECTOR GENERAL, INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY: I think we should always be concerned with these armed conflict anywhere in the world. In this case, as far as I'm concerned, I have a very concrete mission, apart from political statements that may be quoted from one side or the other.

My mission is to ensure the safety and security of nuclear facilities in all the member states of the IAEA, in this case, Ukraine. And the situation is as you I think, you described it very well in your introduction, the situation is very tense, in particular, around Zaporizhia, which is this big site with six nuclear reactors.

The biggest in Europe, where as you rightly described, and I think here we have to be extremely careful when we say what's going on, because we hear information and sometimes I would say a bit frivolous reports indicating what may or may not may be going on, I think you described it very well.

There are forces military forces that have taken control of the village which is very close to the police plant. You know, that in the old Soviet Union used to have the nuclear power plants and then you had a village with not where most of the stuff, these are huge industrial compounds as you may imagine.

So there are thousands of people in those places. So they got control, control meaning ensuring, you know, the security of the entire place displaying their armored vehicles et cetera.

ANDERSON: OK.

GROSSI: And then they moved into the vicinity of the perimeter of the nuclear power plant. And as you are indicating, there have been some physical you know, proximity confrontation among some of the local population and these forces. Yes, this is what is going on.

[11:35:00]

ANDERSON: OK. That's what's going on in Ukraine. Moscow has said it has put its nuclear forces on alert.

GROSSI: Yes.

ANDERSON: Some say that was just a frightened the west. Others say that Putin is serious about using them. What's your sense?

GROSSI: Well, I think we have to make the distinction again, so that people are not confused between what is going on with the nuclear facilities in Ukraine and the safety operation of these facilities, all of them, including Chernobyl. And an announcement made by the President of the Russian Federation, indicating that his nuclear forces is in one stage alert.

ANDERSON: Right.

GROSSI: So I think we should make this distinction otherwise, we are mixing up things. As far as that is concerned, it's an announcement, it says political announcement, and I don't, you know, have views on political announcements of the president of the member state of the IEA.

What I can say is that, of course, this is something that is attracting a lot of attention is not a banal thing to say that you are putting your forces in a state of alert, it doesn't mean that they're going to be used.

As you know and this is a general statement I'm making, it doesn't have to do it has nothing to do with this particular one. But as you know, there is a gradient, there are a number of steps and grades that you have with your nuclear deterrent when you use it, and this is one of the initial ones. Yes.

ANDERSON: Understand. You've said that the IAEA was in discussions with Ukraine about sending personnel to help secure the safety of those nuclear plants that you've been talking about. Will you and have you notified the Russians that that is going to happen?

GROSSI: Well, first of all, again, and to clarify, the nuclear regulator, the Nuclear Safety Authority of Ukraine, which is my counterpart, I deal with them because it's about Ukraine has requested me for immediate assistance.

Of course, this assistance has different manifestations; we are already engaged with them, with the operators in the different sites in Ukraine. I would say almost permanently getting information from them, and when it when it's possible, giving them some technical advice on different safety operations.

On top of that, we must evaluate the opportunity and the advisability of sending a physical presence. And of course for this--

ANDERSON: Are you going to send people in, I guess is the question at this point, very briefly.

GROSSI: I'm talking to both sides and seeing whether this would be possible, but for this to be possible first, you have to define what you are sending people for. So let's not forget that these plants are being operated and are being run normally, by their own staff.

ANDERSON: Right.

GROSSI: So when it comes to sending people, you have to be very clear in defining what kind of activity they should be performing. The Ukrainians have informed us that there is a lot of concern, because on some cases, shifts are not proceeding.

So people are staying on, on their posts for longer than the necessary or for longer than it should normally be. And of course, - a nuclear power plant is something quite delicate. So you have to have people who are rested, et cetera, et cetera.

ANDERSON: Understand.

GROSSI: I'm talking to both sides, and as you can imagine, am quite a delicate operation.

ANDERSON: OK. All right, sir, and with that, and I can understand it must be a very delicate operation. With that, we'll leave it there. We thank you very much indeed, for joining us.

Once upon a time, he was one of the biggest foreign investors in Russia. Then he called out corruption was hunted for over a decade and played a role in developing the sanctions that are actually being used today. Bill Browder's take on how to stop Vladimir Putin is up next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[11:40:00]

CHATTERLEY: Welcome back. Chelsea Football Club looking for a new owner Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich says he plans to sell Chelsea in the best interest of the club, the fans, the employees as well as the club sponsors and partners quote.

Abramovich who bought Chelsea in 2003 sees net proceeds of the sale will be donated to a foundation to help victims of the war in Ukraine. CNN's Alex Thomas joins us now. Alex, that's a statement in itself not yet sanctioned to himself but clearly preparing or acting accordingly. What are the fun things about this? Do they understand the bigger picture on what's happening here?

ALEX THOMAS, CNN WORLD SPORT: There are still lots of question marks over how this sale is going to go through. But it's certainly a momentous time for this football club. It's enjoyed over the last 19 years, unquestionably the most successful period in its history.

You know, Chelsea Football Club have been around for around 98 years before Roman Abramovich became the owner back in July 2003, winning arguably around eight major trophies. And in his 19 years since taking over Chelsea have won something like 18 major trophies you could notch that count up above the 20 mark include various Super Cups as well.

So it's been quite astonishing. He's pumped billions of dollars into this team buying star players whose names are known throughout the world, Didier Drogba, Torres; you've had Shevchenko play here at - many others as well. They've won the Premier League title on five occasions.

They've been champions of Europe twice, including most recently as last year, and even became Club World Champions just weeks ago. So as far as the football is concerned, real concern amongst player's staff fans uncertainty over the future.

But certainly Roman Abramovich has been mentioned when it's come to discussion about these oligarchs that many western governments are going after. U.S. President Joe Biden himself said we're coming for you when it comes to seizing assets, reclaiming them in this bid to put pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin to end his war in Ukraine.

And that's why Abramovich says he's setting the club for its benefits for its future because he knows that he's quickly becoming persona non grata as the west looks to put pressure on Putin.

CHATTERLEY: Yes, him and others. Alex Thomas, thank you so much for that now, football clubs, just one of the choice of the oligarchs. This is the luxury super yacht owned by the CEO of state owned Russian oil company Rosneft.

Now, it's in the hands of French customs, the latest of a number of seized assets belonging to people with close ties to President Putin. Sources say a similar move is being planned by the United States as we've discussed, applauding all of this Bill Browder.

He was a major investor in Russia before he started to campaign against Kremlin corruption. He was the driving force behind U.S. legislation used to impose sanctions after his own lawyer died in jail in Russia.

Browder says it was murder. Bill Browder is also an author and has published Red Notice, A True Story of High Finance, Murder and One Man's Fight for Justice. I began by asking him how important it is to tackle the oligarchs and Putin directly as a way to undermine his power.

BILL BROWDER, CEO & FOUNDER, HERMITAGE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: It's crucial that we go after the oligarchs and to give you some sense, how much this affects him personally. It wasn't until we started talking about seizing the assets of the oligarchs that Putin then started.

He pulled out the nuclear card and said he was threatening nuclear war so you know that you've hit the Achilles heel when Putin starts doing that. This is what he cares about. This is what's important to him. Now, I should say that going after the oligarchs is not going to help because we're going to get the oligarchs to either influence him or overthrow him that's never going to happen.

[11:45:00]

BROWDER: But this helps because the oligarchs look after Putin's money, we want to punish Putin personally indirectly, for what he's done. And this is the most direct way of doing that.

CHATTERLEY: But if it's not a way to remove him, or to pressure him in some way, what's the true Achilles heel? Is there an Achilles heel, ultimately for Putin?

BROWDER: Well, so Putin doesn't have a reverse gear. Once he starts something, he can't go backwards. He can't show weakness, he comes from a prison yard mentality where he has to be the toughest guy in the prison yard.

And so now that he's launched this invasion, all we can do at this point, is try to wear him down. So he doesn't go further. And when I say further, what I mean is, we don't want him to then show up at NATO's door later on, because that's what will happen.

And so the best thing we can do is we can deplete his resources. So this expensive war becomes more and more costly to him, and he doesn't have the money. And the way we can deplete his resources, is to get rid of his resources offshore, which is the oligarchs wealth, and get rid of the resources on shore, which is central bank wealth.

And if we do both and we do them properly, then eventually he's not going to have enough money to execute this war.

CHATTERLEY: I mean, you know more about what's possible in terms of sanctions, I think the most other people in the world as a result of your own experiences, there are clear leaks here.

The energy sector in Russia, is a leak, there are other leaks that you can see there in terms of the banks that haven't been sanctioned. And perhaps those payments can flow through what just under a third of the banks that haven't been sanctioned, did those leaks need closing to.

BROWDER: Those leaks definitely need closing. They've sanctioned with 70 percent of the banking system. And as you say, they're just going to move the money through the other 30 percent of the banking system. It's the different countries of sanction different oligarchs.

But we're not looking at a very long list. If we want to curtail Putin's ability to execute this war, we need to sanction more, we're like 50, or 100 oligarchs, not 10. And so we're beginning to do the right thing.

It's a remarkable sea change from the appeasement attitude that many countries had a week ago. But we still have a lot more to do if we're going to seriously put a dent in Putin's ability to execute this war.

CHATTERLEY: So what you're saying is we're still moving too slowly. I mean, everyday people are dying.

BROWDER: And every day, the Ukrainians are begging for us to take more action. And since we're not in any position to assist them militarily, we should use whatever financial and economic tools we have to the maximum possible pain for Vladimir Putin.

CHATTERLEY: Just China also hopes the key here to Russia's ability to sustain this conflict. We're on CNN reporting today that China asked Vladimir Putin to delay beyond the finish of the Beijing Olympics.

We know that they were increasing trade ties financial ties in the run up to this. Do you believe that China's willing to accept or risk secondary sanctions in order to help Russia avoid the sanctions that have currently been put into place?

BROWDER: Well, I think that China will do whatever is in China's best financial interest to do. And so the fact that we're slowly but surely strangling the economy and finances of Russia, eventually Russia is going to be with their begging bowl at China's door.

And China will probably see some big economic advantage to giving Russia a little bit of help. And so if China weren't there, it would be a lot easier to totally isolate Russia, China is there. And that's going to be, you know, delay the inevitable, which is that Putin runs out of money. CHATTERLEY: You're talking about economic depression in Russia. Can you flesh that out for me? What does that look like? And how long before the people feel it. And to circle back to our conversation about Achilles heels, what about the people when they start to feel the significant consequences? And we've already seen many of them with currency collapse and capital controls? Does that make a difference?

BROWDER: People feel it profoundly from a few days ago, the currency has collapsed. They can't get dollars and Euros out of their ATMs anymore. You're going to see a massive economic slowdown in Russia's businesses. And so, the people are feeling it, and they're very upset.

I mean, why would anyone want that to happen to them, and most people have not been given a good explanation of why Putin has invaded Ukraine. In fact, they're not even allowed to know these invaded Ukraine. They're not even allowed to call it an invasion.

And so the Russian people over time are going to become more and more disheartened with how they're being, you know, economically disadvantaged. Putin is going to try to turn that as anger towards the west, but many people will probably be pretty angry towards him.

[11:50:00]

BROWDER: Now, does that mean there's going to be a revolution and uprising? I think not because Putin has specialized in quelling and suppressing dissent. He arrests any leader of any opposition group sometimes kills them, he arrests random protesters, then I think more than 1000 people have been arrested for protesting against the war. And so--

CHATTERLEY: Vladimir Putin is speaking; let's listen in to what he has to say.

VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT: Security of our motherland, our officers and soldiers, acting heroic just and courageous electro here, our military are fighting, firmly, fully understanding what's happening. Even once wounded, our officers and soldiers are still in the ranks in the troop sacrificing their life so they can save their friends and peaceful population.

In the course of this fight, as well as them, our soldiers as well as the people in Donbas who are with us, they're truly courageous. And our worries under the commandment of - in the region of - got through the well protected protection, which nationalists have been building up nearly for eight years.

The commander of the Tank Division - in the course of the fight, destroyed five tanks. On the 25th of February, near - a commander of division 163 met the nationalistic divisions which had 15 tanks and 6 armored vehicles.

And they attacked their enemy and easily destroyed five tanks and all armed vehicles without any losses on their side. And I signed the decree to give senior - to avoid Senior Lieutenant - the war of the Hero of Russia. Unfortunately posthumously in the battle, he was very confident in the way he commanded his soldiers. As a true commander, he stood up for his soldiers. Heavily wounded, he fought until the last minute and, and got himself exploded, together with those nationals.

The reason why he did this was just because he was fighting those neo- Nazis who are torturing their prisoners. I'm a Russian and you know what, if I look around my family, we all Russians. And when I see examples like this, the examples of such heroism, which is not of in Russian, and he's a - and other heroes.

I would like to say, I am from - I'm from Chinchin. I am - I am from a city, I'm from --. And it would be hard it would be impossible for me to count all of those over 300 various ethnic and national groups that we have, but I'm proud that I am part of this huge multinational people of Russia.

And at the same time, I will never step back from my conviction that Russians and Ukrainians are one people despite the fact that the population of Ukraine is so scared by the nationalistic propaganda.

And many of them consciously have followed Nazis and Panther and everyone who fought on the site of Hitler during the Second World War. And it is clear that we are fighting the Neo Nazis, the Nazis, and we can see this in the course of the fight.

We see that they have foreigner, foreign mercenaries even from the Middle East. And they are covering up and they're using the civilians as they're alive shield and they're using mill armored vehicles in their residential neighborhoods.

And this is exactly only the extreme. People doing instead of fulfilling their promise to remove those armored vehicles from the neighborhoods where there are --.

[11:55:00]

PUTIN: They actually moving more equipment and artillery and, and rocket launchers. They have actually even captured foreign residents, thousands of the foreign students. In hark of day; they've kept on the cork of trail rail station for 3179 foreign students.

And also in - and Neo Nazis have started firing Chinese students who are trying to leave the country and two of them got wounded. Hundreds, hundreds of foreigners are trying to leave these combat territories.

But they're not allowed to do that. They keep them captured, and they just track the time or they suggest them to be evacuated via - and Poland. And that means they put them at risk.

Our military has given corridors; they've provided corridors in all of these zones of combat action. They've provided vehicle, so the civilians, the foreign residents could have this possibility to leave and go into the safety.

And I would like to reiterate this; the nationalities are not allowing doing this. Moreover, they've been telling their foreign residents to refer to their government, so they would come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine.

Moreover, even worse, that Neo Nazis are treating their own civilians, they're covering up themselves with the people, the civilians, as the life shield. And we've already recorded in - the Donetsk region.

People from the multiple flat buildings have been taken out of the building, or have taken in one place, and then they've got snipers and gone on the roofs and the basement. It's only the first Nazis who've been fighting like this, there were brutal.

They were brutal with a local population. And again, I would like to emphasize this that our warriors are doing everything possible to make sure that there are no victims. And that includes the Ukrainian population.

And it is our duty to support military that are fighting for us, for our people for Russia. So everyone who - all the families whose members died during this special operation, they will receive 7 million plus rubles and also monthly compensation.

And additionally, there will be additional compensation for every military from the Ministry of Defense; there'll be compensation in the amount of 5 million for both for all of the wounded ones, and every military will also receive insurance and some other kind of compensation.

And if it happens, so that if a military was in contract, and then won't be able to continue their service, they will receive compensation as well as a monthly compensation. And all of this has already been envisaged by the law. In addition to that, I also believe we also have to add more pay to the military troops who are participating in this special military operation and wounded.

So I would like to emphasize that currently in Ukraine, our officers and soldiers are fighting for Russia, for peaceful life, for the people of Donbas for the de-nazification and demilitarization.

So no one can put a threat to us, including nuclear weapons just like they've done recently. Our people are proud of their armed forces. We will always remember the ones who we've lost, we'll do everything to support their families, their children to give them education, to be with their relatives and close ones.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNSP00020220303ei330005l


BBC Russia says there have been reports there are problems accessing its website...
6987 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日 20:58 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
BBC Russia says there have been reports there are problems accessing its website in Russia.

However, there has been no confirmation if the BBC has been banned by the Kremlin.

BBC Russia also said the domain https://bbc.com[https://bbc.com] has not been added to the registry of banned sites.

German public broadcaster Deutsche Welle reported, in Russian, that the BBC site was not working in Russia.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky after news broke about a fire at the nuclear power station in Zaporizhzhia.

A Downing Street spokeswoman called the situation "gravely concerning", adding: "Both leaders agreed that Russia must immediately cease its attack on the power station and allow unfettered access for emergency services to the plant.

"The Prime Minister said the reckless actions of President Putin could now directly threaten the safety of all of Europe. He said the UK would do everything it could to ensure the situation did not deteriorate further.

"The Prime Minister said he would be seeking an emergency UN Security Council meeting in the coming hours, and that the UK would raise this issue immediately with Russia and close partners.

"Both leaders agreed a ceasefire was crucial."

The international community needs to "come down hard on Putin" after Russian forces shelled a nuclear power station in the south-eastern Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia, according to the Deputy Prime Minister.

Dominic Raab told Times Radio: "It is clearly reckless, irresponsible and not only the fact they were shooting, bombarding that particular site, but when the Ukrainian emergency authorities were trying to put out the fire, the shelling continued.

"It must stop.

"We support the Ukrainians in dealing with the security situation there but also I think come down hard on Vladimir Putin.

"That's why the Prime Minister has called for an emergency United Nations security council meeting in New York so the entire international community can address this, because of course it is a much wider threat, given the nuclear implications.

"It is an affront to the world at large."

Dominic Raab said it was "doubly reprehensible" that Russian forces had continued to shell a nuclear site after Ukrainian emergency services had looked to put a fire out at Europe's largest power station.

The Deputy Prime Minister told Sky News the Russians had inflicted a bombardment on a "very sensitive, precarious and dangerous facility" in Zaporizhzhia.

He said: "The fact that the Russians kept on bombarding after there was the fire and the Ukrainian emergency rescue team were trying to get to that makes it doubly reprehensible."

Mr Raab said the UN security council meeting being called for by Boris Johnson was needed to "ramp up the pressure on these appalling tactics we are seeing from the Kremlin".

(Corrected repetition: Changes 'voted for' in par six to 'taken')

Latvia's foreign minister has said Nato should "consider all options" when asked about entering direct conflict with Russia.

Edgars Rinkevics told the BBC's Today programme that governments "should not exclude" any recourse to stop the invasion.

Earlier, the programme heard from former Ukrainian prime minister Oleksiy Honcharuk, who said other European countries "don't understand" the lengths Putin will go to.

He said leaders from other countries should offer direct military support and "at least to close our skies to protect us from the threat".

Asked about the comments, Mr Rinkevics said: "I think we should consider all options but we should also understand, let's say, some Nato policies can be implemented only if those countries that have necessary assets agree on that."

He added that any decision would have to be taken unanimously.

Asked whether Nato may instead be forced to broker an "uncomfortable" settlement with Russia, the minister replied: "Well, I think we must do everything that we can. That's why I'm saying that we should not exclude any options."

The UK is "at the vanguard" of imposing sanctions on Kremlin-linked money, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, as he sought to defend the Government's actions on targeting Russian oligarchs.

Dominic Raab was asked during broadcast interviews why the European Union had sanctioned more individual Russian elites than Britain.

Speaking to BBC Breakfast, Dominic Raab said it was a "false distinction" to make, adding: "The question is not whether it is individuals or companies - it is where the money is flowing."

Separately, he said: "There has been a running commentary that the UK has somehow been slow - we've not been slow.

"We've been at the vanguard of taking action and, of course, what is really important is we act in concert with our allies, European, American and other Nato allies.

"For example, we have sanctioned more Russian banks than the EU, including Sberbank, which is the biggest Russian bank. We've made it clear and introduced measures so that three million Russian companies cannot raise loans or get listed on the UK stock market.

"These measures - and each country has slightly different sanctions regimes - are all aimed at tightening the noose, if you like, and starving off the finance that is going into Putin's war machine."

The Deputy Prime Minister said he would support giving over seized Russian oligarch property in the UK to Ukrainian refugees.

Asked on LBC whether Britain could capture property assets owned by Russian elites in punishment for Moscow's invasion on Ukraine, Dominic Raab said: "Yeah, if we've got the evidence and the legal basis, then we'll do it."

Pressed on whether he would back using those properties to house Ukrainian refugees - a move called for by the Liberal Democrats and reportedly argued for in Government by Housing Secretary Michael Gove - Mr Raab replied: "Yes, absolutely.

"We are looking at everything in the round, it is a team effort across Government, from the foreign and defence secretary through to Michael Gove and, of course, the Prime Minister is driving this very hard."

Vladimir Putin is "at risk" of ending up in prison for war crimes carried out by his Russian forces in Ukraine, the Justice Secretary said.

Dominic Raab, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, was asked on Times Radio whether he saw the conflict ending with the Russian president "imprisoned for war crimes".

He said: "I think it is a very real risk that he must now contemplate.

"Beyond his personal situation, every commander operating in Ukraine, or indeed Moscow, when they are faced with illegal orders, whether it is to target civilians or otherwise, attack illegal or unlawful sites, they now know the ICC (international criminal court ) is investigating and the chief prosecutor Karim Khan is, I believe, travelling to Ukraine.

"They must now know that they face the very real risk of ending up in the dock of a court and, ultimately, in a prison if they follow through on those illegal, unlawful orders."

The Welsh Government is to provide £4 million in aid to Ukraine.

First Minister Mark Drakeford, who told Sky News that Wales hopes to be "a nation of sanctuary" for Ukrainian refugees, said the aid would help people on the front line.

He told the programme: "We know that cash is what is really needed here and now on the ground for people who can obtain those goods and put that money to good use - and that is why the £4 million from the Welsh Government will go to the Disasters Emergency Committee appeal that we launched here in Wales yesterday."

He could not say how many refugees that Wales could be dealing with and that many of them might like to stay near family or friends who may live elsewhere.

He said: "What we would like to see through the UK Government is a simple, fast, safe and legal route for those needing to seek sanctuary elsewhere in the world and in Wales to be able to come here.

"For those people for whom Wales could be even a temporary home, a temporary place of sanctuary, we will want to do everything we can to welcome them and to provide for them."

Justice Secretary Dominic Raab is looking to change the law to prevent Russian oligarchs and kleptocrats from exploiting the British justice system to "silence" those investigating corruption linked to Vladimir Putin's regime.

The Cabinet minister told BBC Breakfast: "There is another aspect to this that I'm looking at as a matter of urgency and will be producing proposals on very shortly.

"We have seen oligarchs and kleptocrats and those with links to Putin coming into this country and suing under our libel laws those who are shining a light, whether it is authors or NGOs, on corruption and abuse.

"And that is an abuse of our system and I'm going to be putting forward proposals to deal with that and to prevent that.

"It cannot be right that kleptocrats and those with links to Putin can silence those shining a light on those excesses and use our courts to do so."

The UK has got to "stop dragging" its feet in clamping down on funds that have come from figures linked to Russia President Vladimir Putin, Labour Party chairwoman Anneliese Dodds has said.

She told Sky News: "I certainly would say that we have been far too soft, especially over the last 10 years, on those funds that have come from Putin-linked oligarchs and business people."

She rejected the Government's claims that it has been working strongly against economic levers for Putin-linked individuals.

She said: "I have got to say that, for many, many years, Labour has been calling on the Conservatives to, for example, force transparency around property ownership, especially in London where we know that many of these Putin-linked oligarchs have been stashing their funds in property.

"We see, even with the new measures that finally have been extracted from the Government now that they say they will announce on Monday, an 18-month window before they will come into action - that's just not good enough.

"We need immediate action now. We can put those registers of foreign-owned property into place in 28 days, we believe we could get those running and force that transparency.

"We should have had it many years ago but, above all, we need it right now. We have got to act right now and we have got to stop dragging our feet as the Conservative Government has been doing."

Dominic Raab said he would not comment on individuals after being asked about the circumstances of the sale of Chelsea football club and the potential for owner Roman Abramovich to profit.

Asked on BBC Radio 4's Today programme whether Mr Abramovich should be able to do "what he wants to" with the proceeds of the sale, the Deputy Prime Minister said: "I'm not going to talk about individual sanctions on individuals."

Pressed on the case of Mr Abramovich and the sale of his Premier League club, Mr Raab said: "We don't talk about individual cases before the sanctions are imposed.

"We have overnight imposed sanctions on Mr (Alisher) Usmanov and (Igor) Shuvalov, but the reason we do it is, first of all, precisely because it is contested and, as Justice Secretary, I can't prejudge these things.

"But, more importantly, we do not want to give advance sight to anyone of the measures that we take."

The West must be prepared for Russian President Vladimir Putin's tactics in Ukraine to become "ever more barbaric", a Cabinet minister has warned.

Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Secretary Dominic Raab told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the economic sanctions taken on Russia are "starting to bite" but that Britain and its allies need to "bed in and have the strategic stamina for the long haul".

He added: "I've said that we can expect that, after the stuttering start to this campaign, that Putin would resort to ever more barbaric measures as he gets frustrated.

"And that is the next phase that we all need to be alert to, whether it is the sanctions or the steeling of the capacity and the will of the Ukrainian defence."

In response to the situation at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, a Nuclear Industry Association spokesman said: "We condemn in the strongest possible terms the Russian military attacks around the Zaporizhzhia plant that have endangered the lives of nuclear workers bravely discharging their duties.

"We commend the extraordinary dedication of the station's staff and operators in what are terrible circumstances, and emphatically endorse the IAEA's call for a halt to all use of force around Ukraine's nuclear power plants.

"We understand that the fire at the plant was not in the reactor buildings, has been extinguished and has not affected essential equipment, with no reported change in radiation levels."

The BBC said it will continue efforts to make sure people in Russia have access to its news output following reports that its Russian Service website has been blocked in the country.

A BBC spokesman said: "Access to accurate, independent information is a fundamental human right which should not be denied to the people of Russia, millions of whom rely on BBC News every week. We will continue our efforts to make BBC News available in Russia, and across the rest of the world."

The broadcaster previously said the audience for its Russian language news website has more than tripled its year-to-date weekly average to a record 10.7 million people in the last week, while visitors to the English language bbc.com in Russia were up 252% to 423,000 last week.

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer described the overnight attack on a nuclear plant in Ukraine as "deeply alarming".

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham, Sir Keir said: "I think the whole world will be shocked. I think it's very important that we unite now and renew that message that Russia must withdraw.

"We need a ceasefire - and we need to stop this aggression from Russia because this escalation is deeply, deeply concerning."

Asked how Nato and western governments could stop the escalating attacks on Ukraine, Sir Keir Starmer said: "We need the retreat from the Russian aggression in Ukraine - it's as simple as that.

"Every day we are seeing these attacks and the devastation that they are bringing about."

Sir Keir said of President Putin: "From what I've already seen, it seems to me there is evidence of war crimes and it's very important that all of those responsible are held to account.

"What's really important now is the gathering of evidence to make sure that the most powerful case can be brought whenever it can be brought."

Asked for his view of the UK Government's efforts to sanction Russian oligarchs, Sir Keir Starmer said: "Where the Government is taking action on sanctions, we support them. But they have got to go further and faster.

"We must go after every oligarch. This is the weapon we have to use and we need to use it now.

"I am particularly concerned about the arrangements where the Government is suggesting there could be 18 months for those overseas owners to register their assets and their ownership.

"That gives them 18 months to remove their assets from this country, so I want to see the Government move on this."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK Government is doing "all we can to support the Ukrainians".

Speaking in Brussels, Ms Truss said she was holding various meetings to show "the strength of our unity in challenging Vladimir Putin, in stopping Vladimir Putin, in Ukraine".

"We're doing all we can to support the Ukrainians through defensive weapons, where the UK led - we were the first European country to donate defensive weapons, and we're also going to be talking about sanctions."

She said sanctions were having a "big effect in Russia" but she said she was looking at how to speed up the process.

"We've sanctioned more companies than our counterparts across the world, we've just sanctioned two more major oligarchs last night," she said.

"What I'm doing is looking how we can speed up that process to make even more progress on that front.

"The number one thing (that's) important though, is that we are unified with our partners across the world in putting the toughest ever sanctions we've had on Russia."

Sir Keir Starmer has said Labour wanted to see a rule brought in to force oligarchs to register assets over a "very, very short" period measured in days.

The Labour leader said: "Otherwise what will happen - it's inevitable - is that people will remove their assets... they will remove and sell their properties in the UK, and put the money somewhere else.

"This is the powerful weapon we have to support Ukraine. We've got to use it.

"I say to the Government - get rid of the 18-month timeline. Bring it down to a number of days and we will vote it through on Monday.

"The strongest provisions, we will be united in voting through. But I don't want to see the Government slowing down here or losing the ambition to take that opportunity."

Sir Keir Starmer said it was clear Ukraine wanted the strongest possible response from Nato members, adding that the people of the country were "bravely" fighting back.

Asked for his view of President Vladimir Putin's state of mind and the way he was acting, Sir Keir answered: "Putin is a dangerous aggressor who is in breach of international law.

"I think he is gambling that Ukraine and our allies, the United Kingdom and Nato would not be united. He will be surprised by how united we are."

Sir Keir Starmer called for Conservative fundraiser and co-chair Ben Elliot to be sacked for his role in links between the Tories and Russian money.

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham Erdington, Sir Keir said: "I think there is growing concern about the links between the Conservative Party and Russian money.

"Ben Elliot is at the heart of that. We need to strip Russian money away from our politics, not to allow it to influence our politics.

"There will always be this danger if the Conservative government doesn't go really hard on this that people will say it must be because you are reliant on Russian money that you are not going more quickly.

"So, it's in everybody's best interests that Ben Elliot steps back from his role - and I think he should actually be sacked from it."

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has spoken of "numerous cases" of rapes in his country as the Russian invasion continues.

Welcoming a call to create a special tribunal to punish Vladimir Putin for the crime of aggression against Ukraine, he said it was "difficult" to talk about international law amid the country's current suffering.

He told an online event organised by the Chatham House think-tank: "When bombs fall on your cities, when soldiers rape women in the occupied cities - and we have numerous cases of, unfortunately, when Russian soldiers rape women in Ukrainian cities - it's difficult of course to speak about the efficiency of the international law.

"This is the only tool of civilisation that is available to us to make sure that, in the end, eventually, all those who made this war possible will be brought to justice and the Russian Federation, as a country that committed an act of aggression, will also be held accountable for its deeds."

Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba called on the media to "spread the truth about Russia's crimes against Ukraine".

He thanked people for their continued support, saying: "I appreciate that all of you stand by Ukraine."

He told those listening to an online event organised by the Chatham House think-tank: "We are fighting against the enemy who is much stronger than us.

"But international law is on our side, and hopefully it will help us, it will make its own contribution, to help us prevail."

On the issue of Russian money being laundered in London, the city's mayor Sadiq Khan told PA: "It is quite clear that many people across the globe, including in Russia, see London as the money laundering capital of the world. That's unacceptable.

"So, we're lobbying the Government to be seizing the assets of those Russian oligarchs who are close to Putin, to be making sure that the sanctions are implemented, it's really important to do so.

"But also to urgently make public a list of all those properties in our city that are owned by those who are from overseas."

He added: "We've already had more than a week since the Russians invaded Ukraine, and no real movement from the Government, no real action. They've got to step up.

"Other countries in the European Union can be seizing multi-million pound yachts. Why can't we?"

Supermarket chain Sainsbury's will stop selling all products that come from Russia and change the name of Chicken Kievs to Chicken Kyiv to match the Ukrainian spelling of the capital city.

The company said that it would be removing Russian Standard vodka and Karpayskiye black sunflower seeds from its shelves.

But it will continue to sell JJ Whitley products after the manufacturer said it plans to move all production to Chorley in the UK.

"We stand united with the people of Ukraine. We have reviewed our product range and have decided to remove from sale all products that are 100% sourced from Russia," the supermarket said.

Boris Johnson does not back calls for Russian President Vladimir Putin to be assassinated, No 10 said.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister was asked about comments made by US Senator Lindsey Graham urging Russians to kill their leader.

Asked if the PM agreed, the spokesman said: "No, we stand with the Ukrainian people in demanding the immediate end to the Russian invasion.

"We've said before that Putin must be held (to) account in front of an international court for the horrific act he's committed."

Former prime minister Gordon Brown criticised Russia for not making a statement regarding safety on the nuclear power station in south-eastern Ukraine it has taken control of, saying that is a "failure to respond to the pleas of the international community".

He told an online event organised by the Chatham House think-tank: "I am surprised that this morning, now that the Russian government have taken over a second nuclear power station in Ukraine, and now are in control of it, they have not made a statement that they will not allow that nuclear station to be used to endanger and to threaten human life.

"It is these very instances of Russia's failure to respond to the pleas of the international community, that make us determined that we will step up our campaign to make sure that Russia is brought to justice for what is a crime of aggression but of course could - and I support the International Criminal Court's actions - be in other areas too."

Boris Johnson is concerned for the safety of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, Downing Street said.

The Prime Minister has regularly spoken to the Ukrainian leader and has expressed his personal admiration of him and a spokesman for the PM was asked whether Mr Johnson was worried about attempts reportedly made on Mr Zelensky's life.

He said: "Of course, everybody's concerned for the safety and welfare of the President of Ukraine and the rest of the government, as well as the people of Ukraine who we've seen indiscriminately targeted over recent days."

The Defence Secretary said the shared values of the West were "under threat" from Russian president Vladimir Putin and his invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking in Copenhagen, Denmark, where he is visiting allies in the UK Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF), Ben Wallace said Mr Putin was "bombarding, ordering the killing, invasion of a sovereign country for simply having the nerve to choose a different future for itself".

The Cabinet minister said there were fears that a "new Cold War, a new Iron Curtain will descend upon Europe".

He added: "Now is the time for us to stand together in common values and in determination, both in soft and hard power.

"We recognise that freedom isn't free."

Mr Wallace was speaking on board a ship that was preparing to deliver Danish forces to serve alongside British troops in Estonia, which he said would "send a common message to President Putin that we are all together, whether you are in Nato or not, joined at the hip by our values".

Priti Patel has said Ukrainians fleeing into Poland were escaping "the most atrocious set of circumstances where they are being persecuted by President Putin".

Speaking on a visit to the Polish border, the Home Secretary told reporters she was in the country "very much in terms of standing in solidarity with the people of Ukraine, but also with our friends here in Poland".

She said she wanted to "to see the work that they're doing and also to see how we can support Poland much more in terms of helping those Ukrainians with links to the United Kingdom to come to Britain, and actually we've been discussing some of that work here today".

Ms Patel said: "We're also launching our new family extension route today to enable Ukrainian families with links to the UK to come over to Britain. That scheme is live, that is now working, that's up and running.

"We stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of Ukraine but also with our dear friends here in Poland, who are working really night and day, we can all see this, under incredible circumstances."

The Disasters Emergency Committee's (DEC) Ukraine appeal has raised £55 million in its first day.

The total includes "generous" donations from the Queen, the Prince of Wales and the Duke of Cambridge, DEC said.

It said hundreds of thousands of members of the public donated to the humanitarian appeal within hours of its launch on Thursday.

The total includes £20 million donated by the UK Government as part of its UK Aid Match scheme - the largest commitment ever made to a DEC appeal through the initiative.

DEC chief executive Saleh Saeed said the committee is "extremely grateful" for the "huge generosity" of everyone who has donated to the appeal, adding: "We are also very grateful for the generous support of the royal family."

He said: "We also thank the UK Government who have matched pound for pound the first £20 million donated by the public, as well as our broadcast partners and celebrities for having aired and joined the appeal, reaching millions of viewers and listeners.

"Giving through the DEC is the most effective way to get the right assistance to the right people. While wanting to collect clothes and other items for people in need is laudable, the things people give today may not be what people need tomorrow and aid workers say they can't use much of what is arriving. Donating through the DEC is the most helpful way people can assist.

"While we have raised an astonishing amount in the first day of the appeal, we urge people to continue donating as the need is great and the response needed is likely to run into months and years. Please help now."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic about the situation in Ukraine on Friday afternoon.

The pair "reaffirmed their unwavering support for Ukraine's territorial integrity", while Mr Johnson said the UK would "continue to support Serbia's efforts to promote stability in the wider region", a Downing Street spokesperson said.

"The leaders agreed to continue to work together on a range of issues, including across the energy sector," the spokesperson added.

"President Vucic thanked the Prime Minister for the UK's leading role during this time of crisis."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia's invasion of Ukraine is "an attack on our freedoms, our values and the security of Europe".

In a statement issued after a meeting with defence ministers from the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) nations, Mr Wallace said Russian President Vladimir Putin has "sought to break our defensive alliances, which is why now, more than at any point in the history of the JEF, our partnership is so vital".

He added: "We are united in our resolve across the JEF nations to support Ukraine. Our values are Ukraine's values and we will continue to provide lethal and non-lethal aid, alongside sending additional forces to Estonia serving with our Danish allies."

The BBC will "temporarily suspend" the work of all its BBC News journalists and support staff in Russia following new legislation passed by the Russian authorities.

BBC director-general Tim Davie said: "This legislation appears to criminalise the process of independent journalism. It leaves us no other option than to temporarily suspend the work of all BBC News journalists and their support staff within the Russian Federation while we assess the full implications of this unwelcome development.

"Our BBC News service in Russian will continue to operate from outside Russia.

"The safety of our staff is paramount and we are not prepared to expose them to the risk of criminal prosecution simply for doing their jobs. I'd like to pay tribute to all of them, for their bravery, determination and professionalism.

"We remain committed to making accurate, independent information available to audiences around the world, including the millions of Russians who use our news services. Our journalists in Ukraine and around the world will continue to report on the invasion of Ukraine."

The importance of the "total international condemnation of Russia's barbaric actions" has been agreed between Boris Johnson and Turkish President Recep Erdogan in a phone call on Friday afternoon.

A Downing Street spokesperson said the pair had spoken and that: "They agreed on the powerful message sent by the UN General Assembly earlier this week in opposition to the Russian invasion."

"The leaders discussed the need to continue supporting the people of Ukraine in their resistance against Russian aggression," the spokesperson said.

"The Prime Minister outlined the steps the UK has taken to isolate Russia both militarily and economically.

"Both the Prime Minister and President Erdogan highlighted the immediate need for Russia to provide urgent humanitarian access to Ukraine.

"They agreed to stay in close contact in the coming days as part of the co-ordinated Nato and international response."

The Metropolitan Police said the War Crimes Team is part of Counter Terrorism Command and has "national responsibility for carrying out any UK enquiries into war crimes and core international crimes".

Detectives are appealing for anyone in the UK who may have direct evidence of war crimes in Ukraine from 21 November 2013 onwards to come forward, and are particularly keen to hear from anyone who may have witnessed or been the victim of any war crimes in Ukraine during this period.

Evidence given to and gathered by the War Crimes Team may then be shared with the International Criminal Court to assist with their investigation.

Commander Richard Smith, head of the Met's Counter Terrorism Command, which includes the War Crimes Team said: "Following the news that the ICC (International Criminal Court) had opened an investigation into war crimes in Ukraine, our War Crimes Team is now seeking to gather any evidence that might be present here in the UK of such crimes in Ukraine.

"This could be in the form of direct messages, images or videos that friends or relatives here in the UK have been sent by those in Ukraine.

"Or it could be somebody who was previously in Ukraine and who may have witnessed or even been a victim of a war crime and has since travelled to the UK.

"To be clear though, we specifically want to hear from people who are now here in the UK, and who have a direct link to any relevant information or evidence - this is not about the general public highlighting or telling us about things they might have simply come across or seen in the media, online or on social media."

The UK permanent representative to the United Nations said Russia "must keep fighting away from and protect the safety and security of nuclear sites".

Dame Barbara Woodward said it was a relief that reports so far suggested there had been "no release of radioactive material" following Russia's shelling of a nuclear power station in Ukraine, but such an attack "must not happen again".

Addressing the UN Security Council, she said: "Colleagues, this is the first time that a state has attacked a fuelled and functioning nuclear power plant.

"International law requires special protection for nuclear facilities. And it is difficult to see how Russia's actions were compatible with its commitments under Article 56 of the additional protocol of the (Geneva) Conventions. It must not happen again.

"Even in the midst of an illegal invasion of Ukraine, Russia must keep fighting away from and protect the safety and security of nuclear sites."

Dame Barbara Woodward said Russian President Vladimir Putin had "misjudged the strength, resilience and will of the Ukrainian people".

Addressing the UN Security Council, the UK permanent representative to the United Nations said: "President Putin said yesterday that the special military operation, or as everyone else calls it, the war, was going to plan. Everyone around this table knows that is not true.

"President Putin misjudged the strength, resilience and will of the Ukrainian people to his invasion.

"He underestimated the world's condemnation of his actions - 141 votes in the General Assembly and the unprecedented sanctions on Russia demonstrate the strength of the global response.

"Every day, this war continues the destruction it brings to Ukraine, the suffering it inflicts on Ukrainian and Russian people, and the risks it poses to international peace and security increase.

"This must stop. We call on Russia to end this violence, withdraw its troops and enter into serious peace negotiations."

A former British ambassador to Russia said he suspects the next few days of the Ukraine crisis will be "pretty grisly".

Sir Roderic Lyne, who held the post from 2000 to 2004, told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "(Russian President Vladimir) Putin is working towards the moment when he can say 'mission accomplished', and claim to his own people that he has secured a great victory in what he denies is a war or an invasion, and calls a special military operation.

"And I do not see him turning back from that objective until he reaches a point where he can say that."

The Government has put forward a series of amendments to the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Bill to "crack down on corrupt elites" and put pressure on Russia, the Foreign Office said.

The FCDO said changes will allow the UK to align more rapidly with the individual designations imposed by allies such as the US, Canada and the EU via an urgent designation procedure.

The amendments will remove the test of 'appropriateness' for designations, enabling the government to act more quickly and make changes to further facilitate the designations of groups of individuals.

The Government has also brought forward amendments to shorten the deadline for overseas companies to register their beneficial owners from 18 months to six months, aiming to crack down on money laundering through UK property.

A further amendment will also increase criminal penalties for non-compliance from fines of up to £500 per day to up to £2,500 per day.

Boris Johnson said the changes to the legislation would give the UK "new powers in our arsenal to go further and faster" in sanctioning Vladimir Putin's regime.

He said: "The UK has led the way with the toughest package of sanctions against Putin's regime and we're bolstering this with new powers in our arsenal to go further and faster.

"We will ramp up the pressure on those criminal elites trying to launder money on UK soil and close the net on corruption. They will have nowhere to hide."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss added: "Our message to Putin and his cronies has been clear from day one - invading Ukraine would have serious and crippling consequences. We have been true to our word, introducing the largest and strongest sanctions package in our history, but we are not stopping here.

"The changes we are making will allow us to go faster and harder on those closest to Putin, including oligarchs, as we continue to ratchet pressure in the face of illegal and unprovoked Russian aggression."

Amendments to the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Bill will be expedited through all its Commons stages on Monday.

Russia has blocked access to Facebook, according to the country's state communications watchdog Roskomnadzor.

In a statement, the regulator said: "On March 4, 2022, a decision was made to block access to the Facebook network (owned by Meta Platforms, Inc) in the Russian Federation.

"Since October 2020, 26 cases of discrimination against Russian media and information resources by Facebook have been recorded.

"In recent days, the social network has restricted access to accounts: the Zvezda TV channel, the RIA Novosti news agency, Sputnik, Russia Today, the Lenta.ru and Gazeta.ru information resources."

It comes a week after Russia limited access to Facebook after the social media provider refused to stop fact-checking and labelling content from state-owned organisations.

Sir Nick Clegg, vice president of global affairs at Facebook's parent company Meta, said of the decision: "Soon millions of ordinary Russians will find themselves cut off from reliable information, deprived of their everyday ways of connecting with family and friends and silenced from speaking out.

"We will continue to do everything we can to restore our services so they remain available to people to safely and securely express themselves and organise for action."

Boris Johnson spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron about the "appalling situation in Ukraine" on Friday evening.

The Prime Minister described it as "the worst war on our continent for a long time", while both leaders agreed "the reckless actions leading to damage to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant were despicable", to a Downing Street spokesperson said.

The leaders were said to have agreed it is "imperative" both countries continue to do all they can to help the Ukrainian people, "including via further humanitarian support - as well as economically and militarily".

"Both leaders reiterated the UK and France would work closely in the coming days in the face of Putin's increasingly savage and evil actions," the spokesperson added.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted a message in Ukrainian on Friday night that read: "I want to address Ukrainians directly here in the UK and those in Ukraine and neighbouring countries."

In a video clip underneath he said: "I cannot even imagine what you're living through right now, or the outrage and heartbreak you must feel as everything you know and love is so inexplicably and brutally shattered.

"What's happening in your homeland is an abomination, and like people across the UK, I am heartsick at the destruction and loss of life.

"On Wednesday, MPs in our House of Commons stood to applaud the Ukrainian ambassador and to demonstrate that the whole of the UK stands squarely with the people of Ukraine, and your awe-inspiring struggle against this aggression.

"Together, with Ukraine's many friends, we're doing everything we can to support you and to impose a mountain of pressure on Vladimir Putin.

"We're working with more than 25 allies and partners from as far away as Australia to support those engaged in the battle, not only to protect their homes, but freedom and democracy itself.

"With the US and the European Union, we've brought in the biggest package of global sanctions ever imposed on Russia. And we will go further, unless and until this aggression stops."

Boris Johnson added in his video message: "The world is turning its back on Putin and his regime.

"Global corporations are severing ties with Russia. Participation in sporting events is being cancelled, and nation after nation is taking a stand.

"The vice is tightening its grip, and it will continue to tighten.

"To those Ukrainians here in the UK, who I know are desperately worried about family and friends, I can tell you we're doing everything we can to help those fleeing the conflict. If you're a Ukrainian in the UK, we've made it easier for you to bring over family members through the Ukrainian Family Scheme.

"On Tuesday, I announced there will be a new humanitarian sponsorship route, and we're matching the donations you make through the Disasters Emergency Committee Ukraine appeal, starting with £20 million, alongside the hundreds of millions were providing in humanitarian aid.

"Putin has made a grave miscalculation. The free world is united in its resolve to stand up to his barbarism, and the fortitude and defiance of the Ukrainian people in the face of this unjust and unwarranted aggression is moving hearts around the world.

"I've spoken almost every day to President Volodymyr Zelensky, and I marvelled at his bravery, his calm, his sense of purpose, just as I marvel at the heroism and resolve of the Ukrainian people.

"And I know that however long it takes, however arduous, Putin must fail. Our thoughts and our sympathies are with the whole of Ukraine in its battle for freedom."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220304ei340008d


Politics
Politics Briefing: Trudeau announces further sanction on Russian leaders during news conference in London; Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who also met with Queen Elizabeth today, is also going to Latvia, Germany and Poland this week
Ian Bailey
2273 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日
The Globe and Mail (Breaking News)
GMBN
英文
©2022 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Hello,

With the House of Commons adjourned until March 21, the Prime Minister and other cabinet ministers are, this week, travelling in Europe, meeting with their peers on the crisis in the Ukraine.

On Monday, Justin Trudeau announced in London that Canada is sanctioning 10 more Russian political and business leaders over Russia’s actions. The targeted 10 were flagged by Alexie Navalny, the jailed Russian opposition leader.

The announcement came during a news conference with Mr. Trudeau, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte.

Mr. Trudeau, who also met Monday with Queen Elizabeth, is going on to Latvia, Germany and Poland this week for talks on the conflict.

Meanwhile, Foreign Affairs Minister Mélanie Joly was meeting in Bucharest with Romania’s Foreign Affairs Minister Bogdan Aurescu.

Defence Minister Anita Anand and the Chief of the Defence Staff, General Wayne Eyre, are travelling to Latvia and joining Mr. Trudeau for part of his trip. They are also meeting with European counterparts and visiting personnel with the Canadian Armed Forces deployed on Operation REASSURANCE to support NATO efforts in the region.

And International Development Minister Harjit Sajjan is headed for Geneva to discuss the pandemic response and humanitarian crises in Ukraine and Afghanistan with UN and international partners. He is also travelling to various Eastern Europe locations, but a statement said, specific locations would not be disclosed before travel due to the security situation in the region.

Please watch check here[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-russia-ukraine-live-updates-civilians-killed-evacuations-irpin/] for live updates on the Russia-Ukraine conflict.

This is the daily Politics Briefing newsletter, written by Ian Bailey. [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/ian-bailey/] Today’s newsletter is co-written with Bill Curry [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/bill-curry/] . It is available exclusively to our digital subscribers. If you’re reading this on the web, subscribers can sign up for the Politics newsletter [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/newsletters/?utm_source=Arcnewsletter&utm_medium=onsite&utm_campaign=fixed_positions&utm_term=signuppage&utm_content=politics_promo] and more than 20 others on our newsletter signup page. Have any feedback? Let us know what you think [mailto:ibailey@globeandmail.com] .

TODAY’S HEADLINES

TRUDEAU MEETS THE QUEEN - Britain’s Queen Elizabeth[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/topics/queen-elizabeth/] met Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau at Windsor Castle on Monday. It was her first official in-person meeting after she tested positive for the coronavirus last month. Story here.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-queen-elizabeth-meets-trudeau-in-first-in-person-meeting-since/]

QUEBEC GREEN’S RUSSIA TWEETS CAUSE CONTROVERSY - Quebec’s Green Party leader has posted a series of tweets calling on Western countries and the Ukrainian government to accept certain Russian demands related to the continuing conflict with Ukraine. Story here[https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/quebec-green-party-leader-faces-backlash-after-calling-russia-s-demands-reasonable-1.5807325] from CTV.

PRIVACY BREACHES FOR SETTLEMENT COMPANY - The company overseeing the federal government’s $900-million settlement deal with military members who experienced sexual misconduct in uniform has admitted to more privacy breaches. Story here.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/canada/article-more-privacy-breaches-in-handling-of-military-sex-misconduct/]

POILIEVRE PLEDGES TO SCRAP `ANTI-ENERGY’ LAWS - Ottawa-area MP Pierre Poilievre says he would repeal what he calls Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s “anti-energy” laws if he becomes the next leader of the Conservatives. Story here.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/canada/article-poilievre-promises-to-build-more-pipelines-remove-oil-tanker-ban-in/]

GOVERNMENT PRIORITIES IN NUNAVUT - As the first legislative sitting of Nunavut’s new government began Monday, Premier P.J. Akeeagok was expected to table a government mandate statement that included a comprehensive elder care strategy, reinvestments in education an enhancing health, mental health and addictions services. Story here[https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/north/nunavut-legislative-assembly-first-sitting-1.6363496] from CBC.

THIS AND THAT

LAST SHOW (FOR NOW) BY DOMINION CARILLONNEUR - In the end, Dr. Andrea McCrady got to play her last show - for now. On Feb. 18, a police action to clear protesters from downtown Ottawa forced the cancellation of a final Dr. McCrady performance on the Peace Tower Carillon before the tower is off limits for several years due to the renovation of Centre Block. The Carillon, opened in 1927, is a series of 53 bells – ranging in weight from 4.5 kilograms to 10,090 kilograms – played on a keyboard in the tower. They have been a Parliament Hill tradition since Canada Day, 1927. (There’s a Q&A here[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-politics-briefing-mass-arrests-in-ottawa-as-police-move-to-clear/] with Dr McCrady, conducted, so to speak, last month.)

But Dr. McCrady, the Dominion Carillonneur since 2008, said Monday that, indeed, she did get a finale on Feb. 23. It was an hour-long recital that began with O Canada and God Save the Queen, but also included Come Healing, by Leonard Cohen, Getting to Know You, by Richard Rodgers, Peaceful Waters, by Gordon Lightfoot, and Until It’s Time for You to Go, by Buffy Sainte-Marie. She finished the show with Never Gonna Give You Up by Rick Astley followed by a peal she devised for the kick-off of Canada 150, as a mash-up of Joy to the World, Auld Lang Syne, and the last measures of O Canada.

“I tried not to think about the nature of the event, but focused completely on the pieces as I played them,” Dr. McCrady said, in an e-mail, referring to the performance audio live-streamed via ParlVU and the Peace Tower Carillon website.

MP WORKING ON BILL ON EMPLOYER SURVEILLANCE - Liberal MP Michael Coteau has launched a nation-wide consultation on whether employees need protection from employer surveillance when they work at home. He’s aiming develop a private member’s bill on the issue. “We need a framework that clearly limits when and how employers can monitor what you do in the privacy of your home or on your personal devices,” Mr. Coteau, the member for Don Valley East said in a statement. “Employers need clear rules in terms of what is allowed, for what purpose and for how long.” Mr. Coteau said he plans to spend three months meeting with such parties as privacy experts, industry representatives and labour representatives, and also host some public town-hall consultations.

NOTLEY HAS COVID-19 - Former Alberta Premier Rachel Notley has tested positive for COVID-19. In a tweet[https://twitter.com/RachelNotley/status/1500848077497724931] on Monday, the provincial NDP leader said she has been triple vaccinated, her symptoms are mild, and she is planning to work from home.

TODAY IN THE COMMONS - The House of Commons is not sitting again until March 21.

THE DECIBEL - On Monday’s edition of The Globe and Mail podcast, Erica Alini[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/erica-alini/] , a personal finance reporter at the Globe explains why some people are being asked to pay back money they received through the Canada Emergency Response Benefit. The program provided[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-self-employed-canadians-caught-in-cerb-confusion-wont-have-to-repay/] $2,000 a month for up to seven months to people living in Canada that had stopped working because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The government paid out $81.6-billion to almost nine million people. Ms. Alini also talks about how to figure out if you are one of those people and how this isn’t[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/canada/article-cra-to-send-out-new-round-of-letters-checking-eligibility-from-cerb/] the first time there’s been confusion around CERB. The Decibel is here.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/podcasts/the-decibel/article-17-million-warned-they-may-have-to-pay-back-cerb-relief/]

TRIBUTE: John Duffy, a former federal Liberal adviser who worked with prime minister Paul Martin and ex Ontario premier Kathleen Wynne, and founded of the communications company StrategyCorp, has died, aged 58. Story here[https://ipolitics.ca/2022/03/04/john-duffy-of-strategycorp-dead-at-58/] from iPolitics. There’s also a statement here [https://strategycorp.com/people/duffy-john/] from StrategyCorp. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said, in a tweet, that he was “deeply saddened” by Mr. Duffy’s passing. “He was talented, energetic, and incredibly knowledgeable. His love for politics – and for this country – ran deep, and that was always evident in the work he did.” A memorial service is scheduled for March 8, 2022 at 6:00 pm at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto

PRIME MINISTER’S DAY

In London, the Prime Minister had private meetings. He then held a bilateral meeting , at an air-force base, with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, a bilateral meeting with Netherlands Prime Minister Mark Rutte, and, with the two prime ministers, visited with members of the Royal Air Force.

The Prime Minister then had an audience with Queen Elizabeth II, at Windsor Castle, and then held a meeting with Prime Ministers Johnson and Rutte at 10 Downing Street. The three prime ministers then held a news conference. The Prime Minister was later scheduled to depart for Riga, Latvia.

LEADERS

NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh held a news conference on measures to help Ukrainians get to Canada.

No schedules released for other party leaders.

OPINION

The Globe and Mail Editorial Board on how opening the membership doors wide could save the Conservative Party: [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/opinion/editorials/article-to-save-the-conservative-party-open-the-membership-doors-wide/] “This is critical for the party. The more it can do to ensure there is a broad range of people from across Canada choosing the next leader, the better the odds that it won’t elect someone captured by a small group of paid-up voting members pushing narrow interests. And that means there is one more step the party must take: make membership free. That was one of the recommendations in an internal report commissioned by Mr. O’Toole last fall after the Conservatives lost a third election in a row to the Trudeau Liberals. It would help to address serious problems in the party’s leadership-election system, which has repeatedly been exploited by both activists and candidates.”

Campbell Clark (The Globe and Mail)[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/campbell-clark/] on accusations of un-Conservatism dividing party’s early race: [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-accusations-of-un-conservatism-divide-partys-early-race/] “Who doesn’t count as a real Conservative? That’s already a divisive question in the Conservative Party leadership race. After Pierre Poilievre’s surrogates attacked potential leadership candidate Jean Charest as a “Liberal,” a senior Quebec Conservative is accusing them of sending an exclusionary message that will shrink the party. Richmond-Arthabaska MP Alain Rayes argues Mr. Poilievre’s team is trying to prevent a debate on Conservative ideas by casting out members of the Conservative “family.”

Kelly Cryderman (The Globe and Mail)[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/kelly-cryderman/] on how Edmonton’s real-estate market is the latest sign Ottawa should get serious about house-price inflation:[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/opinion/article-edmonton-real-estate-market-the-latest-sign-ottawa-should-get-serious/] “One month of ballooning house prices doesn’t make a year-long trend. But this year’s already sharp increases in Edmonton, one of the last big Canadian cities where the average price of a detached home is under half a million dollars, is a sign the issue of Canadian housing affordability hasn’t been addressed in a meaningful way. Runaway increases in Canadian home prices remain a political liability for the Liberals.”

John Ibbitson (The Globe and Mail)[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/john-ibbitson/] on how Canada may finally have the political will to strengthen our depleted defence capacity: [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-canada-may-finally-have-the-political-will-to-strengthen-our-depleted/] “For more than a decade, both Conservative and Liberal governments have allowed this country’s military to degrade. Now, Russian dictator Vladimir Putin has sent his armies into Ukraine. The Baltic states could be next, and they are part of NATO. Canada is committed to their defence. Except we are not able to properly defend either them or ourselves. “Looking at the current state of our defence capabilities, I’d say that the story is mixed but overall not good,” said Charles Davies, a retired army colonel who is a research fellow at the Conference of Defence Associations Institute, a think tank. Bringing the armed forces up to where they need to be in this darkening world will cost a great deal and require political will. The question, as Russian troops besiege Ukrainian cities, is whether that will has finally arrived.”

John Michael McGrath (TVO) on how Christine Elliott’s departure leaves a big hole in Ontario Premier Doug Ford’s team - and it may not be the last: [https://www.tvo.org/article/elliotts-departure-leaves-a-big-hole-in-fords-team-and-it-may-not-be-the-last] “The problem for Ford and his party is not so much that Elliott is leaving — though she’ll undoubtedly be missed. It’s that she’s just the latest Tory MPP to decide that the 2022 election isn’t for her. Jeff Yurek — who was environment minister until he was turfed from cabinet is the most recent shuffle, last year — made his departure from Queen’s Park official this week, leaving another absence in the Tory caucus. Rod Phillips, of course, announced his own departure earlier this year. And to those names we can add long-serving MPPs such as Bill Walker, Randy Pettapiece, and Norm Miller, plus an assortment of others who were either elected for the first time in 2018 (Christina Mitas, Amy Fee, Daryl Kramp) or returned to Queen’s Park after losing their seat in 2014 (Jane McKenna). Incumbents are valuable assets in an election campaign, and the Tories will have many fewer running under their banner than they expected in 2022.”

André Pratte (The National Post) on how Jean Charest is a true conservative and Canada needs his leadership: [https://nationalpost.com/opinion/andre-pratte-jean-charest-is-a-true-conservative-and-canada-needs-his-leadership] “Yes, as a Quebec provincial politician, he opposed the abolition of the long-gun registry, because that is what the population of Québec demanded. Yes, he implemented a carbon tax, but more importantly, his government introduced a cap-and-trade system, a solution that the Conservatives used to support before they put their heads in the sand regarding climate change. What is not said by Charest’s adversaries is that, more importantly, he put Quebec’s finances back in order, in the process demonstrating a lot of political courage. He also cut income taxes. Aren’t those conservative policies, policies such as what are required today at the federal level?”

This is the daily Politics Briefing newsletter, written by Ian Bailey. It is available exclusively to our digital subscribers. If you’re reading this on the web, subscribers can sign up for the Politics newsletter [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/newsletters/?utm_source=Arcnewsletter&utm_medium=onsite&utm_campaign=fixed_positions&utm_term=signuppage&utm_content=politics_promo] and more than 20 others on our newsletter signup page. Have any feedback? Let us know what you think [mailto:ibailey@globeandmail.com] .

Follow this link to view this story on globeandmail.com: Politics Briefing: Trudeau announces further sanction on Russian leaders during news conference in London[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-politics-briefing-trudeau-cabinet-ministers-travel-to-europe-to-meet/] The viewing of this article is only available to Globe Unlimited subscribers.

The Globe and Mail

The Globe and Mail Inc.

文件 GMBN000020220307ei370038p


Independent Russian and Belarusian journalists must be supported - Rinkevics
Inese Trenča
317 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日 16:55 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, March 7 (LETA) - Independent journalists from Russia and Belarus must be supported by letting them not only to leave their country but also to work, because it is essential that people in Russia have access to objective and reliable information instead of Kremlin propaganda channels, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rikevics (New Unity) told journalists following a meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken .

The foreign minister said at the news conference that the officials discussed the provision of assistance to Ukraine. In Rinkevics' words, he asserted to the US secretary of state that Latvia will continue to provide support of all kinds to Ukraine in close cooperation with allies, including the US.

The talks between Rinkevics and Blinken also dealt with the fight against Russian aggression.

The officials also discussed further steps in the sanctions policy. Rinkevics underlined at the news conference that it is essential not only to apply sanctions but to also implement them, which is why the minister reached an agreement with the US secretary of state on the exchange of information in order to find and sanction all oligarchs' assets, bank accounts, various movable and immovable property. The foreign minister indicated that transatlantic cooperation on that matter is essential and that work will continue both in the EU and US.

Rinkevics said that his talks with the US colleague also dealt with the further strengthening of security on NATO 's eastern flank, includi8ng the Baltic states. The foreign minister thanked the US, Canada, Spain and other NATO allies for their contribution. Considering the recent developments, it is essential that NATO forces remained in Latvia permanently, because "we have no illusions about Russia under Putin's presidency", the Latvian minister said.

He also said that he did not see any good reason to believe that Russia would change its policy.

38423041313842332D393144312D3437

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220307ei370038p


Independent Russian and Belarusian journalists must be supported - Rinkevics
322 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日 16:56 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2022 Baltic News Service
RIGA, Mar 7, BNS - Independent journalists from Russia and Belarus must be supported by letting them not only to leave their country but also to work, because it is essential that people in Russia have access to objective and reliable information instead of Kremlin propaganda channels, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rikevics (New Unity) told journalists following a meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken .

The foreign minister said at the news conference that the officials discussed the provision of assistance to Ukraine. In Rinkevics' words, he asserted to the US secretary of state that Latvia will continue to provide support of all kinds to Ukraine in close cooperation with allies, including the US. 

The talks between Rinkevics and Blinken also dealt with the fight against Russian aggression. 

The officials also discussed further steps in the sanctions policy. Rinkevics underlined at the news conference that it is essential not only to apply sanctions but to also implement them, which is why the minister reached an agreement with the US secretary of state on the exchange of information in order to find and sanction all oligarchs' assets, bank accounts, various movable and immovable property. The foreign minister indicated that transatlantic cooperation on that matter is essential and that work will continue both in the EU and US.  

Rinkevics said that his talks with the US colleague also dealt with the further strengthening of security on NATO 's eastern flank, includi8ng the Baltic states. The foreign minister thanked the US, Canada, Spain and other NATO allies for their contribution. Considering the recent developments, it is essential that NATO forces remained in Latvia permanently, because "we have no illusions about Russia under Putin's presidency", the Latvian minister said. 

He also said that he did not see any good reason to believe that Russia would change its policy.

 

BNS, +371 67088611, zinas@bns.lv

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020220307ei37006sh


Latvia urges support for independent Russian, Belarusian journos
336 字
2022 年 3 月 8 日 09:05 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
Text of report in English by Latvian news agency LETA on 7 March

Riga, 7 March: Independent journalists from Russia and Belarus must be supported by letting them not only to leave their country but also to work, because it is essential that people in Russia have access to objective and reliable information instead of Kremlin propaganda channels, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rikevics (New Unity) told journalists following a meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.

The foreign minister said at the news conference that the officials discussed the provision of assistance to Ukraine. In Rinkevics' words, he asserted to the US secretary of state that Latvia will continue to provide support of all kinds to Ukraine in close cooperation with allies, including the US.

The talks between Rinkevics and Blinken also dealt with the fight against Russian aggression.

The officials also discussed further steps in the sanctions policy. Rinkevics underlined at the news conference that it is essential not only to apply sanctions but to also implement them, which is why the minister reached an agreement with the US secretary of state on the exchange of information in order to find and sanction all oligarchs' assets, bank accounts, various movable and immovable property. The foreign minister indicated that transatlantic cooperation on that matter is essential and that work will continue both in the EU and US.

Rinkevics said that his talks with the US colleague also dealt with the further strengthening of security on Nato's eastern flank, including the Baltic states. The foreign minister thanked the US, Canada, Spain and other Nato allies for their contribution. Considering the recent developments, it is essential that Nato forces remained in Latvia permanently, because "we have no illusions about Russia under Putin's presidency", the Latvian minister said.

He also said that he did not see any good reason to believe that Russia would change its policy.

Source: LETA website, Riga, in English 1655 gmt 7 Mar 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220308ei380015p


EU targets Russian 'disinformation' after Ukraine invasion
LETA
305 字
2022 年 3 月 8 日 12:02 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
STRASBOURG (France), March 8 (LETA--AFP) - The European Union on Tuesday pledged to step up its fight against Russian disinformation as fears surge over interference by Moscow after its invasion of Ukraine.

The EU has already banned Russian state media outlets RT and Sputnik from broadcasting across the 27-nation bloc in a bid to curb what Brussels dubs key "weapons in the Kremlin's manipulation ecosystem".

EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said he would now propose a new mechanism that could allow the bloc to sanction Moscow's "malign disinformation actors".

"We are witnessing how the Russian assault on Ukraine continues," Borrell told lawmakers at the European Parliament in Strasbourg. "And this assault painfully highlights why we need to pay more attention to foreign interference, and in particular, to foreign disinformation and information manipulation."

Borrell decried the Kremlin's crackdown on independent reporting and blanket efforts by the "Russian propaganda machine" to justify the attack at home and distort what is happening on the ground.

"President (Vladimir) Putin wants his nation to be blind and deaf. More than that, President Putin I think would like the Russian people to be apathetic," Vera Jourova, EU commissioner for values and transparency, told legislators. "It is more important than ever to reach the Russian people and provide them with information. Every possible channel should be used."

Jourova praised a decision by streaming giant Netflix to halt services in Russia.

"President Putin wants the people to be entertained, not to pay attention to what's happening," she said. "It would not be right to see Russians being entertained and next door Ukrainians being killed."

The EU has already bolstered its efforts to counter Kremlin disinformation since Moscow annexed Crimea and began fueling a war in eastern Ukraine in 2014.

46364443414534442D433546462D3435

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220308ei38001xh


Live updates: Ukraine: Plant staff forced to record address
By The Associated Press
4827 字
2022 年 3 月 9 日 04:51 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest developments on the Russia-Ukraine war[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine] :

LVIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s energy minister said Russian forces that now control a Ukrainian nuclear plant are forcing the exhausted staff to record an address that they plan to use for propaganda purposes.

Russian troops have been in control of the Zaporizhzhia plant, the largest in Europe, since seizing it an attack on Friday that set a building on fire and raised fears of a nuclear disaster. It was later determined that no radiation was released.

Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko said on Facebook that about 500 Russian soldiers and 50 pieces of heavy equipment are inside the station. He said the Ukrainian staff are “physical and emotionally exhausted.”

Russia describes the war as a “special military operation” and says it is conducting targeted attacks. Halushchenko's reference to propaganda appears to refer to Russian efforts to show it is not endangering Ukrainian civilians or infrastructure.

___

LOS ANGELES — Lawmakers in the second most populous city in the U.S. on Tuesday approved a resolution condemning the actions of Russian President Vladimir Putin in waging war against Ukraine.

The Los Angeles City Council voted 14-0 to pass the resolution, which also urges international divestment of holdings in Russia.

The Board of Supervisors in neighboring Orange County unanimously passed a similar resolution Tuesday. It encourages the county to sever ties with any Russian-backed bank or financial institution. The county currently doesn’t have any direct investments in Russia.

In Los Angeles, members of the City Council expressed support for Ukraine, denounced “horrific acts against humanity” and expressed concern that history is repeating itself.

“What’s happening in Ukraine right now is close to home for me,” Councilmember Paul Koretz said.

“My mother’s family fled Kyiv a hundred years ago to avoid the Russian pogroms, and I’ve been sick to my stomach seeing the photos of innocent men, women and especially children who have been murdered in this invasion,” he said.

Koretz also said it was important to support LA’s Russian communities and businesses.

“They are not responsible for the actions of an out-of-control madman,” he said.

___

LOS ANGELES — A former Miss Ukraine winner on Tuesday described her journey with her young son to escape Kyiv and her homeland as Russian troops invaded the country last month, and called on countries to do more to arm her countrymen and women.

Veronika Didusenko, who was crowned Miss Ukraine in 2018, said she and her 7-year-old son were awoken on the first day of the invasion to the sounds of air raid sirens and explosions, and they joined thousands of others on the road to evacuate.

“On my ... journey to the border of Ukraine, there was no place where sirens would not sound, where rockets and bombs would not explode,” she said.

Didusenko told her story at a news conference in the Los Angeles office of women’s rights attorney Gloria Allred, who said she became friends with the former beauty queen several months ago.

Didusenko and her son eventually made it to Moldova and traveled through other European countries before reaching Geneva, Switzerland. Didusenko said she made the “heartbreaking” decision to leave her son there to travel to the United States to hold the press conference with Allred.

Didusenko said she and Allred decided the situation on the ground in parts of her homeland was an important story to highlight on International Women’s Day.

“Right now, millions of Ukrainian children and their mothers are trembling at every sound in the subway stations and bomb shelters. Even more heartbreaking that women are giving birth in such conditions in these shelters,” Didusenko said.

She said Ukrainians are committed to defending their country, but need more help from other nations.

___

WASHINGTON — Additional air defense capabilities are the number one priority for Ukraine’s military right now, the country’s U.S. defense attache, Maj. Gen. Borys Kremenetskyi, said Tuesday after returning from a meeting at the Pentagon.

“It can be ground based air defense systems. It can be fighter jets, whatever possible,” he said in an interview with The Associated Press.

He said there are countries around the world that have Soviet-produced air defense systems that the Ukrainians already know how to operate. “The U.S. government can also motivate those countries to provide us this equipment,” he said.

They also need additional anti-tank, anti-armor weapons and coastal defense capabilities to defend against Russian ships at the south.

He said Ukraine is grateful for the support it has gotten from the U.S. and its allies, which has allowed Ukraine to slow the Russian advance. “As combat is ongoing, we need more right now,” Kremenetskyi said. “So we try to work with our partners to have it as soon as possible.”

___

UNITED NATIONS — Natalia Mudrenko, the highest-ranking woman at Ukraine’s U.N. Mission, is accusing Russia of effectively holding civilians “hostage,” and says “the critical situation” in Mariupol and other cities demands immediate action by world leaders and humanitarian and medical organizations.

She told a U.N. Security Council meeting Tuesday afternoon on women in conflict that civilians, mostly women and children, “are not allowed to leave and the humanitarian aid is not let in.”

“If they try to leave, Russians open fire and kill them,” Mudrenko said, her voice shaking with emotion. “They are running out of food and water, and they die.”

The Russian military has denied firing on convoys and charged that the Ukrainian side was blocking the evacuation effort.

Mudrenko said a 6-year-old girl died Monday in the besieged city of Mariupol on the Azov Sea, “alone in the last moments of her life as her mother was killed by Russian shelling.”

On Tuesday in the Mykolaiv region, she said “Russian occupiers fired at a van with a group of female teachers of the local orphanage (and) three of them were killed.” She said there are also “cases of child sexual violence committed by occupiers.”

Mudrenko said the war has highlighted the role of Ukrainian women in defending their country, saying there were 57,000 women in the army at the start of 2021, comprising 22.8% of the force.

___

LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked the leaders of the U.S. and Britain for banning Russian oil imports.

“This is a powerful signal to the whole world,” he said in his daily address to the nation at the close of another day of war. “Either Russia will respect international law and not wage wars, or it will have no money.”

Zelenskyy said when he went to address the British Parliament, “the scariest figure was the 50 Ukrainian children killed in 13 days of war. But then in an hour it became 52 children. I will never forgive this. And I know that you will never forgive the occupiers.”

Zelenskyy called for negotiations with Russia on ending the war. “The war must be stopped. We need to sit down at the negotiating table, but for honest, substantive talks.”

____

WASHINGTON — The Pentagon said Tuesday that Poland’s offer to give its MiG-29 fighter jets to the U.S. so they can be passed to Ukraine raises serious concerns for the NATO alliance and the plan is not “a tenable one.”

Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said in a statement that the prospect of jets departing from a U.S./NATO base in Germany to fly into airspace contested with Russia in the Ukraine war is concerning. He said it’s not clear to the U.S. that there is a substantive rationale for it.

The U.S., he said, will continue to talk to Poland about the matter.

____

DETROIT — McDonald’s, Starbucks, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and General Electric all announced Tuesday they were suspending their business in Russia in response to the country’s invasion of Ukraine.

McDonald’s is temporarily closing all of its 850 restaurants in Russia, but will continue paying its 62,000 employees there.

The Chicago-based burger giant said it will temporarily close 850 stores but continue paying its 62,000 employees in Russia “who have poured their heart and soul into our McDonald’s brand.”

Starbucks is temporarily closing 130 franchised stores but its franchisee will continue paying 2,000 Russian workers.

Coca-Cola said it is suspending its business; its bottling partner has 10 plants in Russia. PepsiCo is suspending soda sales but will keep making milk and baby formula.

GE said it was suspending its business except for essential medical equipment and electrical service.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian authorities say that Russian warplanes have carried new strikes on residential areas in eastern and central parts of the country.

Ukrainian officials said that that two people, including a 7-year-old child, were killed in the town of Chuhuiv just east of Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine late Tuesday. And in the city of Malyn in the Zhytomyr region west of the capital Kyiv at least five people, including two children, were killed in a Russian air strike.

The Russian artillery has pounded the outskirts of Kyiv, forcing civilians to hide in shelters while water, food and power supplies have been cut, said Yaroslav Moskalenko, an official who coordinates humanitarian efforts in the Kyiv region.

He said that the shelling made it impossible to evacuate the bodies of five people who died when their vehicle was fired upon in Borodianka near Kyiv and the bodies of 12 patients of a psychiatric hospital there. He said that another 200 patients were stuck there without food and medicines.

____

KYIV, Ukraine -- Belarusians living in Ukraine have formed a military unit and are preparing to join the fight against Russia.

Jan Derbeiko, 26, said he has been living in Kyiv since November 2020 after being forced to leave Belarus for participating in protests against President Alexander Lukashenko.

“I had a job and I had plans for future, but the war happened here,” Derbeiko said. “At that moment, I decided to stay here. I’ve already lost my homeland and now my new home is being destroyed.”

Derbeiko urged all Belarusians “who have a conscience and honor left” to provide “maximum support to the Ukrainians.”

He said the squadron of Belarusians, which grows each day, he is preparing to take their positions when the Russian soldiers attack Kyiv.

____

Russia’s Central Bank has sharply tightened currency restrictions amid crippling Western sanctions over the Russian war in Ukraine.

The bank ordered the country’s commercial banks to cap the amount clients can withdraw from their hard currency deposits at $10,000. Any withdrawals above that amount would be converted to rubles at the current exchange rates.

It also told commercial banks to stop selling hard currency to clients, a measure that will likely foment a black market for foreign currency. The draconian restrictions are unprecedented since the Soviet times when the authorities maintained strict hard currency controls. The Central Bank noted that the currency controls were tightened because of the Western sanctions that froze a large share of the Central Bank’s hard currency reserves. The crippling blow to the country’s financial system also prevented Russia from getting foreign cash.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — Authorities evacuated thousands of people from the eastern city of Sumy on Tuesday, a senior Ukrainian official said.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said that 5,000 people, including 1,700 foreign students, were evacuated from Sumy.

Vereshchuk reaffirmed that Ukraine will not accept Moscow’s offer to establish safe corridors for civilians to head toward Russia, saying it will only agree to safe exits leading westward.

Vereshchuk said that the evacuation from the southern port of Mariupol failed Tuesday because the Russian troops fired on a Ukrainian convoy carrying humanitarian cargo to Mariupol that was to carry civilians from the city on its way back. She said the city was in a “catastrophic situation” cut from water, power and communications, adding that a child in Mariupol has died of dehydration.

The Russian military has denied firing on convoys and charged that the Ukrainian side was blocking the evacuation effort.

____

KYIV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian president’s wife thanked the country’s allies Tuesday for their support and urged them to do more to deter Russia.

Olena Zelenska said in an open letter to global media released Tuesday that the Russian invasion amounted to “the mass murder of Ukrainian civilians.”

She said that “the most terrifying and devastating of this invasion are the child casualties,” mentioning eight-year-old Alice who died on the streets of Okhtyrka while her grandfather tried to protect her. She also cited 14-year-old Arseniy was hit in the head by wreckage, and could not be saved because an ambulance could not get to him on time because of intense fires.

Zelenska added that “this war is being waged against the civilian population, and not just through shelling,” citing the lack of basic medicines in the besieged Ukrainian cities.

She seconded President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s call on Western allies to help counter the Russian air superiority, saying “close the sky, and we will manage the war on the ground ourselves.”

____

The Russian military offered again on Tuesday to provide humanitarian corridors for civilians to leave five Ukrainian cities after several previous attempts to establish safe exits have failed.

Ukrainian officials said that Russian shelling again made it impossible for civilians to use the corridors on Tuesday despite a deal reached a day earlier. The Russian military has countered the claim, alleging that Ukraine only has allowed civilians to use one corridor from the city of Sumy and blocked other routes from Kyiv, Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Mariupol.

Russian Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev said Tuesday that the Russian military has announced it will stop firing at 10 a.m. Wednesday to let civilians leave safely via the corridors. He suggested setting up a hotline between Russia and Ukraine to coordinate the evacuation.

____

WARSAW, Poland — Poland said it would give all of its MiG-29 fighter jets to the U.S., apparently agreeing to an arrangement that would allow them to be used by Ukraine’s military. Ukraine has pleaded for more warplanes.

The decision came Tuesday as Washington was looking at a proposal under which Poland would supply Ukraine with Soviet-era fighters and in turn receive American F-16s to make up for their loss. Ukrainian pilots are trained to fly Soviet-era fighter jets.

The Polish Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Poland is ready to deliver the jets to the U.S. Ramstein Air Base in Germany.

“At the same time, Poland requests the United States to provide us with used aircraft with corresponding operational capabilities,” it said.

____

UNITED NATIONS — Ireland’s foreign minister saluted the resilience and courage of Ukraine’s women. The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations hailed their bravery in defending their homes and country. And the head of the International Monetary Fund told “sisters” in Ukraine: “We admire your courage, we share your pain, we stand with you.”

It was International Women’s Day on Tuesday and at a U.N. Security Council meeting focusing on empowering women economically in conflict areas many speakers decried Russia’s war on neighboring Ukraine, and its impact on women.

But Russia’s deputy ambassador Gennady Kuzmin lashed out at sanctions on his country and accused “a cold Western world” of looking on with indifference for eight years at what he called “the murders perpetrated by the Kyiv junta against women and children in Donetsk and Luhansk,” the Russian-backed separatist areas in eastern Ukraine.

Sima Bahous, the head of UN Women, told the council that in Ukraine “humanitarian needs are multiplying and spreading by the hour,” and the majority of those fleeing the conflict are women and children. She warned of the risk of “a backsliding of women’s rights and women’s access to employment and livelihoods” in the war-torn country.

Bahous told a separate U.N. Women’s Day event that “the horrifying situation” in Ukraine and its impacts on women also “remind us that all conflicts, from Ukraine to Myanmar to Afghanistan, from the Sahel to Yemen, exact their highest price from women and girls.”

____

JERUSALEM — Israel said Tuesday it will provide temporary refuge to some 25,000 Ukrainians outside of its Law of Return, under which all Jews are eligible for citizenship.

Interior Minister Ayelet Shaked said in a statement that 20,000 Ukrainians who were in Israel without legal status before the outbreak of fighting will be shielded from repatriation “until the danger subsides.” Another 5,000 Ukrainians will initially be granted three-month visas and will be allowed to work if the fighting continues beyond then. Ukrainians can apply for the program online through the Israeli Foreign Ministry’s Israeli Foreign Ministry’s website.

Israel expects to absorb around 100,000 Ukrainians through its Law of Return, under which Jews from anywhere in the world can come to Israel and get citizenship, Shaked said.

Established in the wake of the Holocaust, Israel views itself as a refuge for Jews fleeing war and persecution worldwide. But it has been reluctant to absorb non-Jewish immigrants, including Africans fleeing conflict and poverty.

It has also refused to allow the return of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians who fled or were driven from their homes in what is now Israel during the 1948 war surrounding its creation. Israel says allowing the return of Palestinian refugees and their descendants — who now number more than 5 million — would spell the end of Israel as a Jewish-majority state.

____

DETROIT — Skyrocketing nickel prices are likely to ripple through the auto industry and raise costs in the nascent global market for electric vehicles.

Nickel is a key component in automotive battery cathodes, and Russia is the third-largest producer of the metal. Trading of the commodity was suspended Tuesday on the London Metal Exchange after nickel prices doubled to an unprecedented $100,000 per metric ton.

The LME said trading did not resume Tuesday, and the suspension could last longer given the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Nickel prices have quadrupled in a week over supply issues, and the spike Tuesday forced the LME to shut down electronic and floor trading.

Large automakers General Motors and Toyota said nickel supplies haven’t been affected yet. But a Toyota spokesman in the U.S. said the company is watching the prices. Toyota has seen costs of nearly all precious metals rise, so it’s only a matter of time until it feels the increases, the spokesman said. Tesla, the world’s largest electric vehicle maker, did not respond to a request for comment Tuesday.

____

LONDON — Consumer goods conglomerate Unilever said Tuesday that it has suspended all imports and exports of its products into and out of Russia, and that it will not invest any further capital into the country.

The company condemned the war in Ukraine as “a brutal and senseless act by the Russian state” Tuesday. It said it will continue to supply everyday essential food and hygiene products that are made in Russia to people there, but will keep that under review.

Unilever, which owns hundreds of food and personal care brands including Hellmann’s and Dove, also said it has stopped business operations in Ukraine and will instead focus on helping its employees.

____

LONDON — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy evoked British wartime leader Winston Churchill as he told the U.K. Parliament that his country would fight Russia’s invasion to the end in Ukraine’s cities, fields and riverbanks.

Zelenskyy told British lawmakers “we will not give up and we will not lose,” in a speech that evoked Churchill’s stirring “never surrender” speech during the darkest days of World War II.

Speaking by video from Ukraine to a packed House of Commons chamber, Zelenskyy urged Britain to increase sanctions on Russia and to recognize Russia as “a terrorist country.”

Tuesday’s address was the first time a foreign leader was allowed to speak in the House of Commons. Screens and simultaneous translation headsets were set up in the House of Commons so lawmakers could hear him.

____

PARIS — U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris to discuss the response to Russia’s war with Ukraine.

Macron was briefing Blinken on his most recent round of conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin who is pressing ahead with the Ukraine invasion despite global condemnation and severe sanctions being imposed on his country.

The two men were also to discuss the Iran nuclear talks in Vienna, which are nearing an end with conflicting signals about whether the 2015 deal limiting Iran’s atomic program can be salvaged.

Blinken arrived in Paris for a two-hour stop from a tour of the Baltic states, Moldova and Poland where he heard firsthand dire concerns about Russia’s actions from leaders.

____

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The Dutch defense ministry says it is working with Germany to station Patriot surface-to-air missiles in Slovakia at the request of NATO.

Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren said Tuesday that the Dutch ruling coalition agrees “in principle” to the deployment on the alliance’s eastern flank as a defensive measure.

Ollongren says that some 150-200 Dutch troops will head east with the missile system as soon as the Cabinet gives formal approval. The defense ministry said the missiles can take down airplanes, helicopters and cruise missiles up to an altitude of 20 kilometers (12.4 miles).

The Dutch military’s Patriot systems have previously seen service in both Gulf wars and were stationed in southern Turkey from 2013-2015 to intercept missiles from Syria.

Germany announced late last month that it planned to send Patriots to Slovakia.

____

BRUSSELS — Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Tuesday that Canada will prolong its military mission in Latvia in response to Russia’s war on Ukraine and plans to send more troops there soon.

Canada’s Operation Reassurance is conducting training and exercises alongside its NATO partners in Latvia to help deter Russia from launching an attack on any of the Baltic states or Poland.

“This mission was set to expire next year and in light of the situation in Europe, we decided to renew it ahead of schedule,” Trudeau said. He says 130 more Canadian personnel would join it in coming weeks.

Trudeau also defended Canada’s decision to supply lethal aid to Ukraine, including rocket launchers and hand grenades, despite some weapons shortfalls at home.

“All those weapons are much more useful right now and in the coming weeks, in the hands of Ukrainian soldiers fighting for their lives than they would be in Canadian hands,” he said.

Speaking alongside Trudeau at the Adazi military base in Latvia, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said that Spain is also set to send around 150 more troops to the Baltic state to bolster its presence there.

____

WASHINGTON — President Biden announced Tuesday that the U.S. is “targeting the main artery of Russia’s economy” by banning imports of Russian oil, the latest sanction intended to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

“We will not be part of subsidizing Putin’s war,” he said in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.

Biden’s announcement came amid rising pressure from Democrats and Republicans, and it reflects a willingness to accept the political risk of rising gas prices to economically retaliate against Russia.

“Defending freedom is going to cost,” Biden said. “It’s going to cost us as well in the United States.”

Although Biden has tried to work in concert with European allies, he acknowledged that many are not announcing a similar ban because they’re more reliant on Moscow for oil and gas.

“So we can take this step when others can not,” he said. “But we’re working closely with Europe and our partners to develop a long term strategy to reduce their dependence on Russian energy as well.”

___

LONDON — Britain is joining the United States in announcing a ban on imports of Russian oil.

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng says oil and oil products from Russia will be phased out by the end of the year. He said the transition period “will give the market, businesses and supply chains more than enough time to replace Russian imports,” which account for 8% of U.K. demand.

Kwarteng said the U.K. would work with its other oil suppliers, including the U.S., the Netherlands and the Gulf states, to secure extra supplies.

President Joe Biden announced a ban on Russian oil imports, toughening the toll on Russia’s economy in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine. It follows pleas from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to U.S. and Western officials to cut off the imports, which had been a glaring omission in the massive sanctions put in place on Russia over the invasion.

___

The Kremlin says that Russian President Vladimir Putin had another phone call with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to discuss the situation in Ukraine.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that he also spoke to Bennett on Tuesday and thanked him for his mediation.

Bennett visited Moscow for a meeting with Putin on Saturday, trying to help broker an end to the war with Ukraine. After meeting with Putin, Bennett spoke to Zelenskyy and French President Emmanuel Macron and also visited Berlin on Saturday for talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Bennett also spoke to Putin by phone on Sunday.

____

LONDON — Sports apparel and shoe company Adidas is the latest Western brand to halt its operations in Russia because of the Ukraine invasion.

The company said Tuesday that it has suspended the operations of its retail stores and e-commerce website in Russia until further notice, though it continues to pay its employees there.

Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, said it will make future business decisions and take action as needed, “prioritizing our employee’s safety and support.”

“As a company, we strongly condemn any form of violence and stand in solidarity with those calling for peace,” the company said in a statement.

It’s also donating 1 million euros ($1.1 million) to refugee and children’s charities and clothing to the Global Aid Network for people in Ukraine and neighboring countries.

Last week, Adidas suspended its partnership with the Russian Football Union. Nike has also shut its stores in Russia.

Sales in Russia account for only about 3% of Adidas’s total global revenue, according to company data.

____

WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden’s top intelligence official said Tuesday the U.S. believes Russia underestimated the strength of Ukraine’s resistance before launching an invasion that has likely caused thousands of Russian casualties.

Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines told a congressional panel that U.S. officials believe Russian President Vladimir Putin feels “aggrieved” by Russia’s failure to subdue Ukraine and that he perceives that he cannot afford to lose the war. But what Putin might consider a victory could change given the escalating costs of the conflict to Russia, Haines said.

Despite Putin’s announcement that he would raise Russia’s alert level for nuclear weapons, Haines said the U.S. has not observed unusual changes in Russia’s nuclear force posture.

Haines said it is “unclear at this stage” whether Russia will try to conquer all of Ukraine, something that would require more resources than Putin has committed.

___

HELSINKI — Flights from the eastern Finnish town of Savonlinna near the Russian border to the capital, Helsinki, have been temporarily suspended due to disruptions in GPS signal in eastern parts of the Nordic country, preventing pilots from landing safely.

Finnish communications authority Traficom confirmed Tuesday that GPS disruptions have been recorded in eastern Finland, but declined to comment on how long or how wide the disruptions were.

Transaviabaltika, a Lithuanian airline that operates on the Finnish domestic route with a small turboprop plane, said its pilots have tried landing several times at the Savonlinna airport since Sunday, but have been forced to turn back to Helsinki each time as the GPS signal was disrupted.

Finland shares a 1,340-kilometer (833-mile) land border with Russia. The lakeside town of Savonlinna is a mere 70 kilometers (43 miles) from the border.

In late 2018, the Finnish government said the country’s GPS location signals were intentionally disrupted in the northern Lapland region and the country’s prime minister acknowledged that it was possible that Russia was the disrupting party.

At the same time, the Norwegian Defense Ministry said Russian forces in the Arctic disturbed GPS location signals during a large NATO drill in the country.

Eds: UPDATES: This version has been updated with Ukraine's energy minister saying nuclear plant workers being forced to record address.; With AP Photos. AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220308ei3800ac9


There is high probability of another rise of government debt - Fiscal Discipline Council
608 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日 09:31 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2022 Baltic News Service
RIGA, Mar 10, BNS - There are several downward economic risks that might deteriorate the economic situation in Latvia, and there is a high probability of another rise in the government debt, BNS learned from the Fiscal Discipline Council.

The council has approved the macroeconomic forecasts adjusted by the Finance Ministry or the sanction scenario for the Stability Program for 2022-2025 in relation to deterioration of the geopolitical situation.

The council noted that the scenario has been prepared in a unique historical situation which is unpredictable. Apart from the most significant risk - military escalation - there are also a number of downward risks which might deteriorate the overall situation.

One of them is macroeconomic disbalance risks. Energy resource prices, especially natural and gas and oil, will continue growing, at the same time, foods and producer prices will grow, and it is not possible to predict the highest inflation point. The cumulative effect of sanctions will leave a negative impact on Latvian residents, especially the poor ones, and also Latvian companies whose business is related with export and import to Russia, Belaru and Ukraine, which might cause bankruptcies of companies.  

Reduction of private investments and private consumption is expected. The high inflation level may result in increased credit rates that would further reduce corporate lending.

Speaking about risks for particular sectors, the council notes the impact on manufacturing, agriculture and services. Primarily, companies using materials imported from Russia, such as metals, timber, will suffer. The agricultural sector globally and locally will be influenced by increase of mineral fertilizers and possible interruptions of supply chains. In combination of fuel price hike, this will cause a steep rise in food prices.

Due to the energy price hike, energy consuming companies will be affected, especially producers of construction materials. Due to sanctions, Latvian transport sector and tourism industry will suffer.

The council noted that the possible fiscal risks would include a steep rise in demand for state support measures, which might even be higher than during Covid-19 pandemic.

The council said that the government debt and budget deficit have already increased during the Covid-19 crisis, but the impact of a new crisis might be even bigger. Therefore, it is not predictable when the government will be able to return to sustainable fiscal policy.

Fiscal Discipline Council chairwoman Inna Steinbuka said that the council had been warning the government that the government debt should not be increased because it is important to leave a safety net for a possible crisis situation. "Unfortunately, from the Covid-19 crisis we have directly entered the sanction  crisis, when fiscal discipline will no longer be a priority. The positive news is that Latvia's fiscal indicators are quite good compared to the EU countries. This gives us hope that Latvia will manage to overcome this crisis," said Steinbuka.

As reported, Latvia's gross domestic product (GDP) will grow by 2.1 percent this year, after which economic growth will accelerate to 2.5 percent in 2023, while consumer price growth may reach 8.5 percent this year, falling to 3.5 percent in 2023, according to the revised macroeconomic forecasts of the Ministry of Finance (MoF) following the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

In the macroeconomic forecasts developed at the beginning of February, which were intended for the preparation of the Latvian Stability Program for 2022-2025, GDP growth was forecast at 4 percent for 2022 and 3.9 percent for 2023. Meanwhile, consumer price growth forecasts were 6.2 percent and 3.1 percent, respectively.

BNS, +371 67088611, zinas@bns.lv

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020220310ei3a001md


Latvia: There is high probability that government debt rises – Fiscal Discipline Council
486 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Watchdog says this is unique historical situation which is unpredictable

Cumulative effect of sanctions to leave negative impact on residents, businesses

Reduction of private investment, consumption is expected; manufacturing, agriculture and services to be particularly affected

Demand for state support measures might even be higher than during coronavirus pandemic

There is high probability of another rise in the government debt, along with several downward economic risks that might deteriorate the economic situation in Estonia, the Fiscal Discpline Council said on Thursday, according to local media. The watchdog argued this is a unique historical situation which is unpredictable and that apart from the most apparent risk which is military escalation, there are also a number of downward risks which might deteriorate the overall situation.

One of the risks is macroeconomic disbalance, the Council said, explaining that prices of energy resources, especially gas and oil will continue growing, while at the same time prices of food and producer prices will also grow, hence it is not currently possible to predict the highest inflation point. The watchdog noted the cumulative effect of sanctions will leave a negative impact on Latvian residents, especially less well-off ones, and also on Latvian companies whose business is related to export and import to Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, which might cause bankruptcies of some companies.

Reduction of private investments and private consumption is expected, the Council added, noting that the high inflation level may result in increased credit rates that would further reduce corporate lending. Reflecting on risks for particular sectors, the council highlighted the impact on manufacturing, agriculture and services. More specifically, companies using materials imported from Russia, such as metals and timber will suffer, while the agricultural sector both globally and locally will be influenced by possible interruptions of supply chains related to mineral fertilisers. This, in combination with the fuel price hike, is expected to cause a steep rise in food prices. Meanwhile, due to the energy price hike, energy consuming companies will be affected, especially producers and producers of construction materials. The Latvian transport and tourism industries will also suffer due to sanctions.

Possible fiscal risks include a steep rise in demand for state support measures, which might even be higher than during the coronavirus pandemic, the Council said. It noted that the government debt and budget deficit have already increased during the coronavirus crisis but that the impact of a new crisis might be even bigger, hence it is not predictable when the government will be able to return to sustainable fiscal policy. "Latvia has unfortunately directly entered from the Covid-19 crisis into the sanction crisis", chief of the Council Inna Steinbuka said. Still, the positive news is that Latvia's fiscal indicators are quite good compared to some other EU countries, Steinbuka said, adding this gives hope Latvia will manage to overcome the crisis.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220311ei3a0003g


News; International
Interview With Latvian President Egils Levits; Interview With U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan; Interview With Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN). Aired 12-1p ET
Clarissa Ward, Dana Bash
6699 字
2022 年 3 月 13 日
CNN: State of the Union
JHNKNG
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[12:00:32]

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DANA BASH, CNN HOST (voice-over): New targets. Putin's forces strike Western Ukraine, where refugees are fleeing, as Russian atrocities grow.

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): A proof of genocide of Ukrainians is taking place.

BASH: What is the U.S. prepared to do to stop the killing? I will speak to National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan next.

And punishing Putin. More than two million desperate Ukrainians flee Putin's war. Is the U.S. doing enough to help Ukraine? And can Americans bear the cost of doing more?

Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar joins me exclusively from the Polish- Ukrainian border, just 19 miles from the latest bombing.

Plus: escalating threat. As Russian forces bomb Western Ukraine, the rest of Europe fears what's next. Can Vladimir Putin be contained?

EGILS LEVITS, PRESIDENT OF LATVIA (through translator): We will deter Moscow from further aggression.

BASH: The president of Latvia, which borders Russia, Egils Levits, ahead.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BASH: Hello. I'm Dana Bash in Washington. And welcome to a special live edition of STATE OF THE UNION.

We are following breaking news. A U.S. journalist, Brent Renaud, was killed by Russian forces in Ukraine, and another journalist was injured, as Russian President Vladimir Putin escalates his attacks, today targeting Western Ukraine, firing more than 30 missiles at a military base near Lviv. At least 35 people are dead, and 134 are injured, according to the head of the Lviv regional military administration.

Take a look at this location. The base is only about 11 miles from Poland, a NATO nation. The attack comes as Russian forces continue to bombard Ukrainian cities and are now 15 miles outside the capital, Kyiv. Down south, in Mariupol, city officials say nearly 2,200 residents have been killed.

France's president is warning, after a phone call with Vladimir Putin, that the Russian leader seems determined to continue the war.

I want to go straight to Ukraine and chief -- CNN chief international correspondent Clarissa Ward, who is live in Kyiv.

Clarissa, what is the latest on the ground there?

CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Dana, according to the Pentagon, this strike on the Yavoriv international training center in Western Ukraine is the third strike on Western Ukraine or in Western Ukraine in the last two days.

It's important to keep in mind that, initially, the anticipation had been that Russia would not try to target Western Ukraine because of its proximity to Poland and other European countries. But that's clearly not the case.

CNN spoke to an eyewitness, who said that, shortly after 5:00 this morning, there was a massive clap, and then a series of missile strikes on this base, three that he could know for certain, 35 people killed, as you mentioned, more than 130 injured.

It's not known whether some of them may be foreign nationals, as well as Ukrainians, because, from our understanding, this base was essentially being used as a receiving center, Dana, for the so-called foreign legion or international fighters from all around the world who have been pouring into Ukraine to fight against the Russian invasion alongside Ukrainian forces.

Meanwhile, you mentioned the death of that U.S. journalist. That took place in Irpin, which is a northwestern suburb of Kyiv. It's a place where my colleagues and I and many of us have spent a lot of time over the last week. There was another U.S. journalist who was also with him who was also shot, but is now injured and being treated in the hospital.

And the mayor of Irpin has come out and basically said that no journalists will be allowed into this suburb anymore, because the situation is so dangerous, because the situation is so unpredictable, and because we are increasingly seeing that civilian vehicles, civilian buildings are being targeted by Russian forces. One more important thing to mention, Dana, an aid convoy has been trying to make it into the port city of Mariupol. That city has been heavily bombarded and under siege for well over a week now. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy really imploring Russians to allow that convoy to deliver that desperately needed humanitarian aid to that besieged city.

[12:05:10]

So far, no sense of clarity as to whether it's been able to reach its destination, but the humanitarian situation there dramatically deteriorating day by day, Dana.

BASH: Well, let's hope that Vladimir Putin at least listens to that plea about humanitarian aid.

And, Clarissa, needless to say, we are all hoping that you and our whole crew there stays safe. We did see you in Irpin doing remarkable, remarkable work.

Clarissa, thank you.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BASH: And here with me now is President Biden's national security adviser, Jake Sullivan.

Jake, I want to start with that strike on the military training base that Clarissa was just talking about near Lviv, the western side of Ukraine, just 11 miles from the border with Poland.

What does that tell you about Putin's strategy? And how worried are you about this strike coming so close to a NATO territory?

JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Well, first, thanks for having me, Dana.

We have been warning since well before this invasion got under way in February that the plans for this invasion involved Russia attacking all over Ukraine, Southern Ukraine, Eastern Ukraine, and, yes, Western Ukraine. So, this does not come as a surprise to the American intelligence and national security community.

What it shows is that Vladimir Putin is frustrated by the fact that his forces are not making the kind of progress that he thought that they would make against major cities, including Kyiv, that he is expanding the number of targets, that he is lashing out, and that he is trying to cause damage in every part of the country.

What President Biden has made clear from the beginning is that we will not have U.S. military forces operating in Ukraine, and there are none operating there now. But we will defend every inch of NATO territory, even as we seek to provide military assistance to the Ukrainian fighters who are bravely defending their homes and bravely defending their cities.

BASH: And let's talk about any effort for diplomacy here.

Vladimir Putin talked with the German and French presidents for more than an hour yesterday. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett is reportedly telling Zelenskyy to make a deal. What are you hearing and seeing? Is there any diplomatic solution in sight?

SULLIVAN: Well, we have been in close contact with the Ukrainians. President Biden spoke with President Zelenskyy just a couple of days ago. He speaks to him on a regular basis to get updates on what is an ongoing communication between Ukrainian negotiators and Russian negotiators.

That is the negotiation that matters, because, ultimately, it is Ukraine that will have to make its own sovereign decisions about the shape of any diplomacy going forward.

From the United States' perspective, we're here to stay in touch with all the key players, as you mentioned, the French, the Germans, the Israelis, others, but ultimately to support the Ukrainians. And, as things stand right now, Vladimir Putin does not look like he is prepared to stop the onslaught.

And so we will continue to escalate the pressure against him and continue to support the Ukrainians as they fight to defend their territory.

BASH: I want to ask quickly about something you just heard Clarissa Ward report, which is that we're starting to get worried about an American journalist killed in Ukraine.

Do you have any information about that? And what is your reaction?

SULLIVAN: I have just had the opportunity to hear about it as I was coming on air.

So, I will have to consult with my colleagues and with our allies and partners and with the Ukrainians on the ground to learn more about what happened. But if, in fact, an American journalist was killed, it is a shocking and horrifying event. It is one more example of the brutality of Vladimir Putin and his forces, as they have targeted schools and mosques and hospitals and journalists.

And it is why we are working so hard to impose severe consequences on him and to try to help the Ukrainians with every form of military assistance we can muster to be able to push back against the onslaught of these Russian forces.

BASH: Well, let's talk more about the potential for that help, particularly militarily.

This week, the U.S. rejected a deal that would help get Polish fighter jets to Ukraine, but do so through a U.S. military base. The Pentagon, as you well know, was concerned that that would be perceived as an escalation by the U.S., be perceived that way in Russia.

But Zelenskyy is still pleading for help. Members of your own party are urging them to get -- urging the U.S. to help them get planes. So are you talking about another way to get Ukraine these planes, or are you ruling it out completely?

[12:10:03]

SULLIVAN: Well, the president listened to the assessment of his intelligence community. He listened to the advice of his military commanders. He consulted his NATO allies.

And he ultimately determined that the risk/benefit analysis of flying planes from NATO bases into contested airspace over Ukraine did not make sense, was not something that he would authorize.

What he did talk to President Zelenskyy about on Friday was other capabilities that could achieve a similar purpose. And so we are working on that now, other anti-air systems that could help take some -- help the Ukrainians make progress in terms of dealing with the threat that is coming from the air from the Russian side.

We are working on that intensively, in close coordination with our allies.

BASH: Anti-air systems, does that include plane -- I mean, I understand that -- what you just said about the president deciding that this particular deal to give Polish planes to Ukraine through the U.S. would -- wasn't going to work, but are there other planes that you're working on getting Zelenskyy, because that is specifically what he's asking for?

SULLIVAN: Our focus right now is on anti-air systems, as well as other forms of assistance. And I'm not sure if you're referring to some other set of planes that I'm -- I don't know about or some other means that I don't know about.

Right now, we are not looking at the provision of the fighter jets in question to Ukraine. We are looking at other methods of getting the Ukrainian defenders advanced capabilities to be able to blunt the Russian advance and protect Ukrainian towns and cities.

BASH: Yes.

Jake, are you confident that supply convoys are safe?

SULLIVAN: What I'm confident of is that the United States, our NATO allies and partners and the Ukrainians have set up a system where we believe we will continue to be able to flow substantial amounts of military assistance and weapons to the front lines to help the Ukrainians ensure that Ukraine is a strategic failure for Vladimir Putin.

Of course, these convoys are going through a war zone. And so to describe them as safe wouldn't quite be accurate. But we believe that we have methods and systems in place to be able to continue to support the Ukrainians as they fight very bravely, very effectively against the attacking Russian forces.

BASH: The U.S. said this week that Russia has the capacity for a chemical weapon attack in Ukraine.

The Polish president said today that would be a game-changer. NATO would have to think seriously about what to do. Would the U.S. intervene more directly, militarily, if Russia uses chemical weapons in Ukraine?

SULLIVAN: Well, first, Dana, it is a very legitimate concern, fear that Russia would use chemical weapons in Ukraine.

They're right now accusing the United States and the Ukrainians of potentially using chemical or biological weapons, which is a tell. It's a tell that they themselves may be preparing to do so, and then trying to pin the blame on someone else. That's a classic page out of the Russian playbook.

As the president said on Friday, if Russia were to use chemical weapons in Ukraine, they would pay a severe price. And I'm going to leave it at that today, as we work closely with our NATO allies and partners. And, together, we communicate through channels to the Russians to reinforce that message that Russia, in fact, would pay a severe price if they use chemical weapons in Ukraine.

BASH: Jake, I understand that the U.S. is treading lightly, in part, in large part, because Russia is a nuclear power.

Vladimir Putin has his nuclear weapons on heightened alert. We know that Russia has smaller so-called tactical nuclear weapons. What is America's level of concern that Putin could use some kind of nuclear weapon?

SULLIVAN: Well, we are watching this extremely closely.

And, obviously, the escalation risk with a nuclear power is severe, and it is a different kind of conflict than other conflicts the American people have seen over the years. And the American president, Joe Biden, has to take that responsibility extremely seriously, even as we redouble our efforts to support the Ukrainians.

As things stand today, the United States has not adjusted our nuclear posture. But it is something that we monitor day by day, hour by hour, because it is of paramount priority to the president.

BASH: So, that sounds like you're concerned?

SULLIVAN: Well, any time you have a nuclear power fighting in a conflict zone in Europe, near NATO territory, of course we have to focus on and be concerned about the possibility of escalation, the risk of escalation.

[12:15:05]

BASH: Yes.

SULLIVAN: But, as I said before, we have not seen anything that would require us to change our nuclear posture at this time. It's something we will continue to watch carefully. BASH: I want to ask about China.

China coordinated the timing of an invasion with Russia. They waited until after the Olympics. They're continuing to do business with Russia. Do you consider Xi Jinping a co-conspirator with Vladimir Putin in this war against Ukraine?

SULLIVAN: Well, we believe that China, in fact, was aware before the invasion took place that Vladimir Putin was planning something. They may not have understood the full extent of it, because it's very possible that Putin lied to them, the same way that he lied to Europeans and others.

We also are watching closely to see the extent to which China actually does provide any form of support, material support or economic support, to Russia. It is a concern of ours. And we have communicated to Beijing that we will not stand by and allow any country to compensate Russia for its losses from the economic sanctions.

BASH: Would you...

SULLIVAN: And we...

BASH: Would you sanction China if they did help out Russia?

SULLIVAN: I'm not going to sit here publicly and brandish threats.

But what I will tell you is that we are communicating directly, privately to Beijing that there will absolutely be consequences for large-scale sanctions evasion efforts or support to Russia to backfill them. We will not allow that to go forward and allow there to be a lifeline to Russia from these economic sanctions from any country anywhere in the world.

BASH: National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, thank you so much for joining me.

SULLIVAN: Thanks for having me.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BASH: Millions of refugees have left Ukraine. What happens to them now? Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar joins me live from Poland ahead.

And as Russia doubles down in Ukraine, could the violence spread into Europe more broadly? The president of Latvia is coming up.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[12:21:48]

BASH: Welcome back to STATE OF THE UNION.

Residents in Southern Ukraine are turning out in large protests today.

You can see a Russian soldier shooting over the crowd there, as Russia ramps up its attacks. Millions of other Ukrainians have already escaped the country over its western border to Poland, and more are trying to go. But that area outside Lviv was the target of Russian strikes this weekend, just 11 miles from the border with Poland.

And that's raising fears in Europe this morning.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BASH: Joining me now from Poland, where she and other senators are with a bipartisan group who just visited a refugee center, Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar.

Thank you so much for joining me, Senator.

SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): Thank you, Dana.

BASH: I want to start on that missile strike 19 miles from where you are right now.

What can you tell us about what happened? And how worried are you about how close this came to the border of a NATO ally?

KLOBUCHAR: Well, obviously, we are in Poland right now, a country with a big heart, taking on 1.5 million -- 1.5 million refugees.

In Warsaw alone, the population has increased by 11 percent. They're taking them into their homes, Dana. They are taking them at the border. And so, obviously, having that so close to their own country is scary. This is a country that has been invaded by Prussians and Russians and the Habsburgs and the Nazis. In this little town, there's actually a synagogue with a menorah with a crack in it, remembering the Jews that were lost to Hitler.

So, this is very provocative to be this close to Poland. But Poland is a NATO ally. And we have sworn to protect Poland. And, in fact, last night, the three -- the four of us, Senator Portman, Senator Blumenthal, Senator Wicker and myself, were briefed with the 82nd Airborne leaders about everything that's being done to get help to Ukraine, both humanitarian and ammunition, and many, many air defense mechanisms that are going on right now.

And you have heard about the Stingers and the Javelins, with more to come, but also the humanitarian aid, which is becoming more and more of a crisis, as refugees are basically flowing through the border.

BASH: Right. Yes.

And you talked about, obviously, the refugees you're seeing there in Poland. There are some new numbers from the U.N. this morning showing, more broadly, 2.7 million refugees have fled Ukraine.

Can you talk a little bit more about what you're seeing in Poland right now, and specifically what more the U.S. can do to help with that humanitarian crisis that you're referring to and seeing?

KLOBUCHAR: Today, we're being briefed by USAID, talking about the help that of course, the Congress just devoted, billions of dollars, from our own country to go and help the Ukrainians.

More and more nonprofits are coming in with medical supplies. And a lot of the real challenge here, of course, is getting it in. Right now, that's happening. And there's trucks after truck after truck. But, of course, the Russians realize this is happening. And they seem to show no limits, whether it is hitting a maternity hospital or hitting religious institutions, whether it is going after civilian apartment buildings.

[12:25:23]

And so that's always a concern. And that's one of the reasons that people aren't always revealing how all of these -- this humanitarian aid, as well as military assistance, is getting through the borders, because of the simple fact that the Russians are looking to attack anything and everything, because, so far, as you know, this country next door of Ukraine, their brave citizens have been able to stand up, against all odds, to the Russians.

The other things I will say about the Poles is, they're so proud of standing up and helping the Ukrainians. You can just feel it standing in this square, people out strolling on a beautiful Sunday, but they are proud. They're proud to be with America, as I was standing here as you're interviewing me, all kinds of thumbs up, because they care a lot about our country.

And we are allies, as we are with most of the countries in the world right now.

BASH: Let's talk about military aid for Ukraine.

You said that the U.S. talks this past week to give Polish or other NATO fighter jets to Ukraine were -- quote -- "the right thing."

But National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan just told me that President Biden decided flying planes from NATO bases into contested airspace -- quote -- "doesn't make sense."

Is that a mistake?

KLOBUCHAR: Well, first of all, there's a lot of us that would like to see the planes over there. And I know that Secretary of State Tony Blinken talked about it just last weekend.

I think one of the things that Jake is getting at is, at some point, there's been so much focus on these planes, especially these particular planes, that they themselves could become a target. The Russians are well aware of this.

And one of the things we have to remember is, this is all about air defense. And you can do it with planes. You can do it with drones, which have been incredibly effective in Ukraine, much bigger than anyone ever thought, as well as, as I mentioned, the Stingers and the Javelins. So, a lot of this is upping the air defense.

And what I heard Jake say this morning is that they are looking to help in many different ways with air defense. And that's certainly the things that we have been hearing from our military on the ground here in Poland as well as our allies.

And we have to remember, Dana, it's not just America. There's also allies that we're working on, as you can see how we coordinated on the sanctions, as we're coordinating on the issue of the planes. But we also are coordinating in many other ways, some of which don't get on your airwaves, for good reason. It's in the middle of a war.

BASH: So you don't -- even know you supported helping Poland get those planes to Ukraine, you're OK with the decision the administration made not to allow that to happen?

KLOBUCHAR: I have made clear to them -- I spoke to the president himself about 10 days ago about this -- I'd like to see the planes over there.

But, remember, things shift. As things become a target, because there's so much public discussion about them, that can become an issue itself. And that's no one's fault. It just happened.

And so part of this is figuring out how you best get things -- and it's not always in public sight, because then they become themselves target -- how you best get air defense over to Poland in a way that's most effective, so that they can move things around the country, which they're doing incredibly well.

And some of the easiest things to move around are drones, which have taken down aircraft, and other anti-aircraft weapons that have been very effective. And we must continue.

BASH: Senator...

KLOBUCHAR: And I still don't rule out having planes at some point.

But, again, you take one day at a time and make the best defense system decisions. And that can't always be discussed on the air, or you would be giving Vladimir Putin the road map to what NATO wants to do here to help protect Ukraine.

BASH: Totally understandable.

Senator Amy Klobuchar joining me from Poland, thank you so much, and stay safe.

KLOBUCHAR: OK. Thank you, Dana.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BASH: Does Vladimir Putin believe that even more of Europe belongs under Russian domain?

The president of Latvia is here live on his country's fears. That's right after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [12:34:03]

BASH: Welcome back to STATE OF THE UNION.

Western leaders are warning that the overwhelming pressure on Vladimir Putin seems not to have changed his mind on his war in Ukraine. That leaves other countries close to Russia worrying, what's next?

The president of Latvia, Egils Levits, joins me now from Riga.

Mr. President, thank you so much for joining me.

Just so our viewers understand that your country, Latvia, shares a 130-mile border with Russia. It is a former Soviet state. Do you fear that your country, Latvia, could be next?

LEVITS: Latvia is member of NATO.

And NATO is the strongest military alliance in the world; 800 million people live in NATO states. And the -- NATO has the biggest military potential in the world, much more bigger as Russia.

So, we are, as Europeans and democrats, worrying and shocked about the Russian aggression against Ukraine. But we know that the aggression against Ukraine is not only aggression against a state, but, in the same time, aggression against the West, against the Western values. And Ukraine is now fighting, fighting for Western values.

[12:35:22]

And our duty is to help Ukraine to fight for the country and for the nation.

BASH: So, on that note, the United States is sending hundreds of troops to your country, to Latvia, including F-35 fighter jets, for the first time.

The U.S. secretary of state, Antony Blinken, also said NATO, which, as you mentioned, of course, you're a member of, is establishing a more permanent military base there in Latvia.

Do you think that that has to happen in order to protect against any future Russian aggression?

LEVITS: Absolutely.

NATO should strengthen the NATO eastern flank, the Baltics, Poland, Romania, so that this would be a strong signal to Moscow that NATO is ready to defend the member states. I welcome also the American troops in Poland, in Baltics. And we need a permanent presence of American troops in this area. I think it is a response to the Russian ideas on aggression beyond Ukraine.

So, we should defend our way of life, our democracies. And this is a question for the confidence to the West. It is an exam for the West. It is exam for the American leadership. And I'm sure that America and the West as a whole will pass this exam.

BASH: We just saw a Russian attack on the Ukrainian base just 11 miles from the border with Poland, which is a fellow NATO member.

How worried are you that that is a signal that it could escalate, what's going on could escalate more broadly in Europe?

LEVITS: We should help Ukraine.

Ukrainian nation is ready to fight and is highly motivated. It's a nation with over 40 million people. And it is not so easy to compare such a big state, the biggest -- biggest state in -- by territory, in Europe, outside Russia.

And it is our duty to help. And we are doing that. America, Latvia, United Kingdom, many NATO states are sending military equipment, Javelins, Stingers, which Ukraine need. And this is a real help for Ukraine.

Second, direction of sanctions, we have already decided in European Union and United States several sanctions, but the potential for increasing the sanctions not yet fulfilled, there are still potential to increase the sanctions.

BASH: Mr. President, one of your predecessors, former Latvian President Vike-Freiberga, didn't mince any words when it comes to Vladimir Putin. She called him a narcissist, a psychopath, a megalomaniac with very strong paranoid tendencies.

And she believes that he's become increasingly unhinged. Do you agree with that?

LEVITS: I'm not a psychologist, like my predecessor, But autocratic states depends from the physical and psychological conditions of the leaders.

And this is one of the weaknesses of authoritarian systems. And, indeed, Russian system shows that, for example -- for example, the planning of the attack to Ukraine failed.

And this also is a weakness of the system. Autocratic systems cannot compete with democratic systems. But the democratic systems should defend themselves. And this is a time and a case now in order to help Ukraine, to defend not only Ukraine, but also the West as a whole.

BASH: President Egils Levits, thank you so much for joining me from Riga, Latvia. Appreciate it.

LEVITS: Thank you.

BASH: And Vladimir Putin's war is looking, as we just heard, like a blunder that could damage Russia's economy for a generation. But is that the view inside Russia?

[12:40:01]

I'm going to talk to my colleague, a journalist who just left Moscow and is back, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MISHA KATSURIN, UKRAINIAN RESTAURATEUR: I told you that we woke up from the bombing, and that I took my, like, little son, who is 8- month-old. And we tried to -- like, to escape and to save the family.

And he started to argue. He said: "No no, no, everything is not like this."

He just cannot believe in this reality. So, they exist in another reality.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BASH: Welcome back to STATE OF THE UNION.

That was Misha Katsurin, a Ukrainian restauranteur, whose own father -- that's who he was talking about -- is living in Russia and refused to believe him, his own son, what he was saying about the war that was happening in Ukraine.

[12:45:10]

I'm here now with former CNN Moscow bureau chief and CNN contributor who just returned from Russia Jill Dougherty, and Julia Ioffe, founding partner and Washington correspondent at Puck News, who also lived in Moscow on and off for a while.

I want to start, Jill, since you literally just got back.

You had to leave Russia. You were living there for a long time, I mean, on and off, but most recently for a few years. You took a selfie that I want to show as you were leaving. And you -- well, it's pretty clear you -- that you were not sure if you were leaving Moscow for the last time.

You had to leave because it was illegal to report accurate information.

JILL DOUGHERTY, FORMER CNN MOSCOW BUREAU CHIEF: Well, just to be precise, I had actually stopped being the bureau chief. I was back in the States.

BASH: Yes. Yes.

DOUGHERTY: But I went back for CNN to provide commentary...

BASH: Yes.

DOUGHERTY: ... right -- good timing, right as the war began.

BASH: Yes. DOUGHERTY: But what happened was, the Russian government passed a law that defined any fake information or disinformation about the war could be punished, by the media, could be punished with up to 15 years in prison.

And so that law was so broadly written that nobody knew how it would be defined. So, a lot of Western media decided they had to leave because it was really unclear.

BASH: And you just heard that clip from the man in Ukraine not able to convince his own father in Russia.

And it's because there aren't journalists like you who did go back, and you who have been there, on and off, and other colleagues that were kicked out...

JULIA IOFFE, WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT, PUCK NEWS: Well, also...

BASH: ... if they wanted to report accurately.

IOFFE: Also because there are no Russian independent journalists anymore. They have all left. Hundreds of them have fled.

What was left of Russian independent media is basically dead at this point because of this law, and because the Russian state authorities shut down the last kind of vestiges of it.

But I have heard many stories like this, because there are so many -- millions of families in Russia who have relatives in Ukraine who are mixed families. And they have friends or relatives calling home to their mothers, to their friends, telling them: They're bombing us.

And I have heard stories that people just block their friend or relative. Not only do they not believe them, but they block them as enemies, because they're just so brainwashed at this point.

BASH: Our colleague, our CNN colleague, Nic Robertson, just like you, he was forced to leave Moscow.

He did a piece for CNN.com. He wrote -- quote -- "Vladimir Putin isn't just destroying Ukraine, but two nations, condemning Russians to an isolation they didn't necessarily choose."

Did you find that when you were in Russia?

DOUGHERTY: Oh, yes, there is no question.

I mean, that -- because my area is Russia, and I have a lot of Russian friends and a lot of colleagues. And I think one of the saddest things for Russia will be that they are being so cut off from the rest of the world in so many ways, now economically.

Journalism, as you just mentioned, is basically dead in Russia, except for the state media. And when you say, why don't Russians believe that this is actually happening, if you watch Russian TV, there is no reporting on what's happening in the rest of Ukraine. It's all on that eastern part, the Donbass region, where the Russian speakers live, in these two fake republics that Russia just recognized are located. So, when they look at it, the message they get is, Russians are under attack by Ukrainians, and Ukrainians are being manipulated and used as a weapon against Russia.

That's what they're getting. So, you know -- now, younger people who can get onto the Internet, get alternative information, they have other ways to get information. But the average Russian, a little bit older, not on the Internet, is definitely a victim of just this spewing propaganda.

IOFFE: And that's why most Russians support the war, because they're supporting a different war than the one that's actually happening on the ground.

Like Jill said, the war they're being shown is a much cleaner one. There are no civilian casualties. Russian troops are being greeted as liberators. They're taking the utmost care to not kill Ukrainian civilians, because their war, according to Kremlin propaganda, is not against the Ukrainian people. It's against the Nazis, who, at the behest of the United States, have seized power.

And so they're seeing a very sanitized version of this, what they're being shown as like a liberating war. And so of course people support it.

[12:50:02]

BASH: And former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul, he said Putin is trying to return Russia to the kind of totalitarian society it was before Mikhail Gorbachev opened the Soviet Union up to the West.

Do you think that's what's happening, based on what you saw there?

DOUGHERTY: Yes.

I mean, I think it's complicated picture, in a way. But I definitely feel, if you look at the people who are surrounding Putin right now, the people that he really -- well, I don't -- I was going to say listens to. I'm not too sure he listens to anyone.

But the people who are around him are these hard men. These are the siloviki, as they're called, the power guys. And so what they want -- and I'm convinced of this, sadly -- is that they want to cut Russia off. They feel that they can survive against the despicable West. And they are totally happy to have Russia cut off from the rest of the world.

And so...

(CROSSTALK)

DOUGHERTY: And so Putin, actually, I think, is a Soviet man. He really is Soviet. IOFFE: Yes.

BASH: And your -- I should just give our viewers some context, those who don't know.

You and your family were Soviet refugees.

IOFFE: Mm-hmm.

BASH: So you have firsthand understanding of the idea or ideal that you're saying that Vladimir Putin wants to return to.

IOFFE: So I think that -- I agree with Jill, but I do think that a lot of the men around him, it's not that they want Russia to be cut off. They liked the spoils that came with being connected to the West and plugged into that economy.

They could have property abroad. They could travel abroad. They could have the benefits of Western civilization. But if they are to be cut off, then they're like, it's fine. We will tighten our belts and we will do it.

But they are men who were born in the '50s, who are -- who came of age during Brezhnev's era. And they didn't mind it so much. It was their youth. They were in the KGB. They were kind of at the top of the pile in Soviet society.

But younger people -- it's not like it was in the '70s, because, in the '70s or in the '80s, people didn't know anything different. Here, you have a society being -- like, Moscow and St. Petersburg, in my mind, are better cities than New York or L.A., just like bar none.

And now they're being -- they're just technologically advanced. They're great to live in. They're super hip. They're now being dragged back to something that's not even -- a friend of mine said, it's not even the Soviet Union. It's something between the Soviet Union and North Korea.

So it's something that's also being taken away from people. It's not that they have never -- as opposed to the Soviet Union, which -- where they didn't have anything.

BASH: Thirty seconds.

DOUGHERTY: I think the saddest thing for Russia -- obviously, the war is terrible for Ukraine.

But, for Russia, this young generation is going to have fewer chances to integrate into the West, to travel, to study, to even have information from the West. And so their entire future is on the line.

And I can tell you, some of my friends and colleagues are leaving. And a whole generation is going to be leaving Russia. And it will only make Russia weaker.

IOFFE: Something like 200,000 people left in these two weeks. BASH: Julia, Jill, thank you so much, both of you, for joining me and giving your incredible expertise.

Thank you.

And we will be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[12:55:56]

BASH: I want to take a moment to recognize Brent Renaud, an award- winning American journalist killed while working to document the atrocities Russia is committing in Ukraine.

It is dangerous work that journalists, including many of our CNN colleagues, are doing as we speak to show the world what is happening.

May his memory be a blessing.

The news continues next.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 JHNKNG0020220313ei3d0002t


EU sanctioning Abramovich, other oligarchs over Ukraine - sources
LETA
111 字
2022 年 3 月 14 日 16:14 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
BRUSSELS, March 14 (LETA--AFP) - The EU is to sanction Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich and other oligarchs in its latest round of punishment of Russians seen as supporting Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, two diplomats told AFP on Monday.

The billionaire owner of the Chelsea football club and the others are being added to a list of individuals whose assets in the EU -- including superyachts and mansions -- can be seized and entry into the bloc refused, the diplomats said.

They are part of a fourth round of EU sanctions against Russia, the details of which were expected to be published later Monday.

45334546304232312D413944462D3437

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220314ei3e0030d


In worst case scenario, volume of Latvian railway freight may decrease by 85% due to sanctions imposed on Russia - Linkaits
Marta Kronberga
391 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 06:12 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, March 15 (LETA) - In connection with the sanctions imposed by the European Union (EU) on Russia, in the worst case scenario, the volume of freight transported by rail in Latvia could decrease by 85 percent, Minister of Transport Talis Linkaits (New Conservative Party) told LETA.

Speaking about EU sanctions, Linkaits said that several things need to be emphasized - one is the sanctions that apply to both legal entities and individuals and their companies, and the other is the decision of large Western companies to leave the Russian market without any sanctions. As a third aspect, Linkaits pointed out that buyers of various goods and services are already assessing what part of their products or services is produced in relation to Russian raw materials or in relation to Russia.

"So we have three-steps of consequence. Of course, we are strictly adhering to the whole regime of sanctions for both road and rail transport, analyzing who is the recipient, the shipper who owns the cargo," the minister said.

Regarding imports and exports, Linkaits explained that both imports of Russian goods and exports of European goods to Russia are declining due to a simple lack of economic activity. The third direction is that even if the product is not on the sanction lists or is not detained in any way, then the recipient of the product often refuses to receive the product. Consequently, carriers have problems that suddenly the recipient of the goods refuses to accept it, because in some way the cargo is related to Russia.

"It all affects the end result. At the moment, there is inertia, especially in rail transport, everything is happening, wagons are moving, but it's a kind of an imprint of the previous month, those who are still selling or buying goods are trying to get them across the border as quickly as possible," Linkaits said.

He also added that if that if Latvian Railways was today asked if they had been affected by sanctions, then no, they had not been affected. "On the other hand, if we look at the potential impact, then in the worst case scenario, potentially, 85 percent of the company's cargo could be halted," Linkaits said.

37424446393746452D423335422D3442

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220315ei3f000dx


Latvia's prime minister has warned all options must be considered to stop...
6460 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 21:25 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Latvia's prime minister has warned all options must be considered to stop Russia's military aggression.

Arturs Krisjanis Karins, whose country shares its eastern border with Russia, told the BBC: "From Latvia's perspective, Putin has to be stopped.

"And we have to think of all the things we can do in order to stop Putin because if we do not stop Putin he will simply continue in this way, in his fight against the democratic world."

The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says Russia has reportedly installed its own mayor in the city of Melitpol following the alleged abduction of his predecessor on Friday.

In an intelligence update, MoD said it was reported Russian forces have also fired warning shots at protestors as demonstrations broke out in occupied areas of Ukraine.

"Reporting suggests that Russia may seek to stage a 'referendum' in Kherson in an attempt to legitimise the area as a 'breakaway republic' similar to Donetsk, Luhansk and Crimea," it added.

Two more British-based companies have said they will pull out of Russia due to the ongoing conflict in Ukraine amid heavy sanctions.

Tobacco giant Imperial Brands has announced it has started negotiations to sell its Russian business as it plans to exit the country, where it employs 1,000 people in sales and marketing, and at a factory.

UK-based car dealership business Inchcape has also said it will leave Russia because operating in the country "is no longer tenable".

Any Britons injured in Ukraine will be supported by the Foreign Office, a minister has said.

James Cleverly told Sky News he did not "have details on the individuals that have been injured and hurt or whether they're British nationals" following reports three former UK special forces personnel were among those killed in Ukraine.

"Obviously, if there are British nationals involved, the UK Foreign Office will be there to support," the Foreign Office minister said.

"We do remind people that the travel advice is that they shouldn't be going to Ukraine, we completely understand the urge to help and be supportive, but obviously, we are telling people it is not safe to travel to Ukraine.

"But obviously, if British nationals have been hurt or killed the Government is there to support."

He said people should "donate to a recognised charity rather than putting themselves at risk".

China should denounce Russia's invasion of Ukraine, James Cleverly has said.

The Foreign Office minister told Sky News: "What we're saying to all countries is that they should denounce this unprovoked illegal attack into Ukraine by Russia.

"They should not in any way, be supporting Russia and we urge countries to join the UK and the international community in condemning and sanctioning Russia to choke off the finances which are funding Putin's war effort.

"There is no justification at all for this attack, and we urge China and all countries around the world to denounce it and absolutely not to support it."

Mr Cleverly said the UK had not had any statements from China denouncing the invasion.

The invasion of Ukraine "presents a unique and terrible additional emphasis" for the UK to move away from an "addiction to hydrocarbon energy".

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly told Sky News: "The UK has really led the way in pushing for alternative energy production, moving away from gas moving away from oil."

He added: "And it's absolutely right we seek to do that because it's the right thing to do for the environment, and as we're now seeing it denies Russia an incredibly important source of income that they rely upon to fund this war."

Mr Cleverly would not be drawn specifically on fracking and said he was more focused on the conflict in Ukraine.

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said the UK's position was against the death penalty, however the energy situation meant Boris Johnson had to hold talks with Saudi Arabia.

Mr Cleverly told Times Radio: "The UK's position on the death penalty is long-standing and principled, we oppose the death penalty on principle, we have communicated that to Saudi Arabia.

"I had conversations along these lines when I was the minister for the Middle East and North Africa in the Foreign Office, we communicate that with all countries that have the death penalty.

"Ultimately, of course, our situation with regard to energy generation is that the Prime Minister is right to seek alternatives so that we do not have to rely on Russian oil and gas and we choke off the finances which are currently being used to wage war against Ukraine, it's absolutely the right thing to do."

Mr Cleverly said he did not know whether Saudi Arabia had condemned Russia's invasion, but said it would be something the Prime Minister "brings up when he visits".

James Cleverly said any attempt by Russia to hold a 'referendum' in areas of Ukraine would "be another attempt to put a veneer of credibility on what is an unacceptable, unjustified illegal invasion".

The Foreign Office minister was speaking to Times Radio after the Ministry of Defence (MoD) said Russia "may seek to stage a 'referendum' in Kherson in an attempt to legitimise the area as a 'breakaway republic' similar to Donetsk, Luhansk and Crimea".

Mr Cleverly said: "What we have seen is that there has been a long-standing disinformation campaign coming out from Russia. There has been all kinds of excuses."

Russia's "plan of attack is not working" in Ukraine, James Cleverly has said.

The Foreign Office minister told BBC Breakfast: "It was meant to be some kind of lightning war where Russian troops swept across Ukraine.

"But what we're seeing is the defence by the Ukrainian people has been ferocious. This, of course, is incredibly frustrating to Vladimir Putin and we're now seeing an escalation, the targeting of civilians and civilian infrastructure - which of course is illegal in international humanitarian law and the law of armed conflict.

"Sadly, this is, I think, a by-product of his anger, his frustration at the ineffective attack that he has put into Ukraine. And obviously, we continue to support the Ukrainian people through humanitarian aid, economic aid and also that defensive military equipment that we've been providing."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly has praised the "huge degree of bravery" shown by a woman who interrupted a news bulletin in Russia to protest against the invasion of Ukraine.

Reports suggested the woman was an editor on the news programme on the state-controlled Channel 1, and video footage appeared to show her holding a sign opposing the war.

Mr Cleverly told BBC Breakfast: "We see people protesting on the streets in Russia. We saw that protest on the Russian news programme.

"These are incredibly important. I think it's a... it shows a huge degree of bravery for those individuals to protest against what we know is an oppressive, authoritarian state, but it's really important that the Russian people understand what is being done in their name.

"They have been systematically lied to by Vladimir Putin and it's really important they understand the truth of what's going on."

James Cleverly has said he is "actually quite proud" that the Government's website for the Homes For Ukraine scheme crashed, and he is considering whether he can provide shelter for a refugee.

The Foreign Office minister told LBC: "The irony of this is I'm actually quite proud that the system struggled. We built it quickly. We could have, yes... we could have spent more time stress-testing this website and delayed it a couple of days before launching.

"But, frankly, I'm glad we moved quickly on this and we're moving quickly to ensure we're able to help the Ukrainian refugees."

He added: "I know this is a weird thing to say as a Government minister - I'm glad the website crashed, because it is a reflection of that generosity of the British people."

Asked whether he will be taking part in the scheme, he said: "I have genuinely considered this. I've discussed this with my wife.

"I don't know whether our personal circumstances will allow us to do this right at the moment. As you know, Nick, my wife, she's going through medical treatment at the moment, but it's absolutely something that I'm considering."

Lisa Nandy has said that if China wants to be a "global player", it "needs to play its part in making the world safer".

"It needs to stand up to Russian aggression," the shadow levelling up, housing and communities secretary told Sky News.

She added that it is "so clear" a wrong has been carried out in the case of Russia invading Ukraine.

Her comments came moments after Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said China has not apparently made any statements denouncing Russia's actions in Ukraine.

Asked what questions people should be asking about giving visas to Ukrainian refugees, Ms Nandy said: "The question is are we going to take any at all?"

A mother-of-three who has signed up to the Government scheme to help give Ukrainians a home in Britain has described it as a chance "for someone to just take away some of the love that we have got".

Mandy Arnold said she is prepared to open up the four-bedroom detached house in Telford, Shropshire, that she shares with her partner John and children aged nine, three and one because they want "to give back" to someone who has gone through the trauma of war.

She told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We have got the space. We are quite a busy family.

"There is always something going on in my house, so for someone else to just enjoy that family environment, especially for someone who has been through what they have been through, is what I wanted to give back.

"In the long run, this will teach my children how to appreciate another human - and not even so much a stranger because, at the end of the day, when I bring someone into my home they are going to be a stranger for the first minute, then they will be welcomed and they will be part of my family."

Acknowledging that those who come may be traumatised, she added: "We just need to be patient and help them through it and let them know that we are a place of safety and a place of warmth.

"I just think that is an amazing experience for me to be able to give back to someone else, and for my kids to be able to give back to someone, and for someone to just take away some of the love that we have got."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly has defended the Homes For Ukraine initiative.

In "phase one" of the scheme, the Government said households must have "a named Ukrainian they wish to sponsor" rather than being matched with a refugee.

But Mr Cleverly told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "There are charities, faith groups, who are already in contact with people in Ukraine, people that need help and support.

"So, actually, rather than introduce a potentially slow and bureaucratic process, where people have already got connections - and there are a huge number of people and organisations that have already got connections with Ukrainians - rather than replicate, duplicate and slow that down, we want to be as agile and as quick as possible.

"That's why we're saying that, you know, we've got organisations which are already in contact with Ukrainians. We've now set up this site so British people can register their willingness to help and support.

"And, actually, what we're looking to do is connect those both ends of that system together and do so in a way that's quick and efficient."

A Foreign Office minister has said he "hopes" talks between Russia and Ukraine progress towards ending aggression.

Asked on the BBC's Good Morning Scotland programme if he thinks the talks between the two sides will yield a positive outcome, James Cleverly said: "I hope so."

But he added that the invasion has not been as successful as the Kremlin had first hoped.

"We have seen a lot of disinformation coming out of Russia, we've seen a lot of dishonesty coming out of Vladimir Putin," he said on Tuesday.

"But the simple fact is that the attack that he thought was going to be so easy has proven to be anything but easy.

"The Ukrainians - from President Zelensky to those students that have signed up to join the defence force - the defence of their country has been amazing and they have forced Russia to reconsider the attacks."

He added: "I really hope these talks are fruitful, but we will judge Russia by its actions, and what we want to see, of course, is for them to leave Ukraine."

A British man trying to get his young daughter and ex-partner out of Moldova has said the visa system is "absolutely diabolical".

Sam Croucher, whose two-year-old daughter and her mother have been stuck in Moldova for almost three weeks, told Sky News: "The Government has been doing a lot of talking but no action, quite frankly."

He added that the "communication has been terrible, the people on the phone are not very helpful at all" and that he spoke to someone on the phone who repeatedly confused Moldova with Dover in Kent.

"That doesn't give you much confidence in the system," he said.

He added that his family feel "let down by the UK Government, as am I".

Almost 89,000 people have registered an interest in opening up their homes to a Ukrainian refugee.

The Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities said the latest figure was 88,712 on Tuesday morning.

The Government has announced new economic sanctions on Russia, including an export ban of some luxury goods to the country and a hike on import tariffs on a range of goods, including vodka.

A spokesman said: "The UK Government has today announced a ban on exports to Russia of high-end luxury goods, while also hitting hundreds of key products with new import tariffs that represent a 35 percentage point hike on current rates.

"Russian vodka is one of the iconic products affected by the tariff increases, while the export ban will likely affect luxury vehicles, high-end fashion and works of art.

"The measures will cause maximum harm to Putin's war machine while minimising the impact on UK businesses as G7 leaders unite to unleash a fresh wave of economic sanctions on Moscow.

"The export ban will come into force shortly and will make sure oligarchs and other members of the elite, who have grown rich under President Putin's reign and support his illegal invasion, are deprived of access to luxury goods.

"Denying Russia access to Most Favoured Nation tariff treatment for key imports and applying additional tariffs will restrict Russian exports to the UK. The UK is working with our international partners and is supporting the World Trade Organization to prevent those who fail to respect the rules-based international order from reaping its benefits."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky expressed his frustration with Nato over the refusal to implement a no-fly zone as he addressed European leaders in London.

In a video call to Boris Johnson and representatives from the Joint Expedition Force countries gathered in Lancaster House, Mr Zelensky said Nato had been "hypnotised" by Russia.

He said Vladimir Putin's invasion had undermined the European security infrastructure.

Nato was "the strongest alliance in the world" but "some of the members of this alliance are hypnotised by Russian aggression".

"We hear a lot of conversations about the third world war, that allegedly it could start if Nato will close the Ukrainian sky for Russian missiles and planes and therefore the humanitarian no-fly zone was not yet established," he said.

"That allows the Russian army to bombard peaceful cities and blow up housing blocks and hospitals and schools.

"Four multi-storey buildings in Kyiv in the early morning were bombarded, dozens of dead."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said his people were relying on the support of international partners rather than the Nato alliance.

"Of course Ukraine is not a Nato member, we understand that," he told European leaders gathered in London.

"We have heard for many years about the open doors, but we also heard that we can't enter those doors.

"This is the truth and we have simply to accept it as it is."

He said other countries bordering Russia should think about their "independent defence capabilities" outside Nato.

"We are doing the best to get the jet fighters and missile defence systems. We need some new format, if we cannot enter the open doors (of Nato) then we have to co-operate with platforms and unions that allow us to do so."

Volodymyr Zelensky said he welcomed Western sanctions but they "are not enough" to end the Russian aggression, calling for a full trade embargo.

The Ukrainian President criticised firms which continued doing business with Russia and said "the world is silent" as nuclear power plants are captured and shelled.

"Many international companies have not yet withdrawn from the Russian market although severe sanctions were introduced," he said.

Such firms "don't care about the 97 kids who were killed so far".

He called for Russian navy vessels to be barred from ports around the world and for all Russian banks to be excluded from the Swift financial messaging system.

"We have to acknowledge Russia as a rogue state and there has to be a trade embargo with Russia. This is something that we need and you need as well, just like the rest of the world, to make sure there is peace in Europe and Ukraine."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told representatives from European countries gathered in London to "help yourself by helping us".

Speaking by video link he told the Joint Expeditionary Force meeting: "You know the kind of weapons we need, everyone knows."

He said the shipments of supplies from the UK and other nations were being rapidly used up.

"The amount that we are getting per week is used, usually by us within 20 hours," he said.

As a result captured Russian equipment and old Soviet-era kit was being pushed into service, he said.

Boris Johnson told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky: "You challenge us, quite rightly, to do more and we all know that we can and we must do more."

The Prime Minister was hosting a meeting of the Joint Expeditionary Force nations in London which was addressed by Mr Zelensky via video-link.

He said: "I hear your point very loud and clear about the economic sanctions that we need to tighten, where we need to go harder on the banks, on Swift."

He acknowledged it is a "desperate moment" and "we must try to do more, particularly to support you in protecting the Ukrainian people from bombardment from artillery and by aviation".

The UK has already said it is planning to send Starstreak anti-aircraft missile systems to Ukraine.

Boris Johnson has praised the "incredible Ukrainian resistance" which he told his Cabinet continued to "stall Russian forces, ensuring Putin's hope of conquering the country in a matter of days had been thwarted".

A Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister told his Cabinet at a meeting on Tuesday that "the situation was turning into something we had not seen for decades (with) the savage war machine bombarding unarmed civilians relentlessly".

The spokesperson said Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia's slow progress was a combination of "poor planning and arrogance".

Mr Johnson also "praised the generosity of spirit of the British people" over the Homes for Ukraine scheme.

The UK is "firmly opposed to the death penalty", No 10 has said ahead of a visit by the Prime Minister to Saudi Arabia.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Boris Johnson will raise executions reported in Saudi Arabia over the weekend with the kingdom's leader when he visits the country to discuss energy production in light of the invasion of Ukraine.

"The UK is firmly opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances in every country as a matter of principle," he said.

"We routinely raise human rights issues with other countries, including with Saudi Arabia, and we'll raise Saturday's executions with the government in Riyadh."

The spokesman did not know whether Mr Johnson would raise the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.

He said it was a "terrible murder, a crime that we've called out and which requires a thorough investigation".

The Home Office has issued 4,600 visas so far under the Ukraine Family Scheme.

This was the total number of visas granted as of 4pm on Monday, the department reported.

According to data published on its website, 17,600 applications have been submitted and 10,900 appointments have been made at visa processing centres.

Downing Street said it wanted to make "best use" of the "huge response" by the British public in offering Ukrainian refugees a home in the UK, as part of the Government's sponsorship scheme.

Asked about almost 89,000 households expressing an interest in taking in a refugee, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We're at relatively early stages at the moment.

"What people have done is expressed interest in the scheme.

"We'll need to see how that translates into those that go on to Friday when the process takes the next step and people can start sponsoring individuals."

He added: "Later this week we will see how many progress onto filling (out) the form.

"What we're in no doubt of is that there has been a huge response by the British public to this and there is a great desire to do everything we can to support (Ukrainians), and we will make best use of that."

No 10 said it would "encourage" those willing to provide accommodation to fleeing Ukrainians to offer longer than the minimum stipulation of six months.

But Downing Street said most refugees would "want to return home as soon as possible".

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The Ukrainian ambassador to London, the Ukrainian government has been clear that the vast majority of those forced to flee will want to return home as soon as possible, so at this stage it is hard to predict what length of time people may want to stay."

The official said that local authorities can "step in" where there is a breakdown in relationship between the host and their sponsored refugee.

Asked about what would happen in the event the sponsor was moving house, or was even at risk of losing their own property, the spokesman replied: "I think in the first instance, we would ask anyone thinking of sponsoring to consider their own circumstances.

"There are a number of ways people can show their support, not just opening up their homes. We appreciate people want to be generous but they do need to consider their own circumstances."

Boris Johnson defended his forthcoming trip to Saudi Arabia, arguing that it was necessary to divert the West away from Russian oil and gas.

The Prime Minister told reporters at Lancaster House, London: "I think that we've got a global crisis in which its obvious that the Russian aggression in Ukraine has helped to trigger a spike in the price of hydrocarbons, a spike in the price of oil.

"It's vital - if we are going to stand up to (Vladimir) Putin's bullying, if we are going to avoid being blackmailed by Putin in the way that so many western countries sadly have been, we have got to get ourselves off Russian hydrocarbons."

That meant "we need to talk to other producers around the world about how we can move away form that dependency".

Boris Johnson compared Vladimir Putin to a drug dealer who had got western nations hooked on his supply of oil and gas.

"Vladimir Putin over the last yeast has been like a pusher, feeding an addiction in western countries to his hydrocarbons," the Prime Minister told reporters at Lancaster House, London.

"We need to get ourselves off that addiction."

Asked about the mass executions in Saudi Arabia and the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, Mr Johnson stressed the need to build the "widest possible coalition" to respond to Russia.

"I think what the world is seeing is the return in Ukraine to the kind of brutality, the kind of absolutely indiscriminate bombing of civilian centres, of great cities that we last saw in the European continent 80 years ago, this is quite unbelievable what is happening now in our continent," he said.

"We need to make sure that we build the strongest, widest possible coalition to ensure that Vladimir Putin does not succeed, that we wean ourselves off Russian hydrocarbons and that is what the Uk is helping to do."

Pressed on whether that meant a coalition with other unpleasant regimes, Mr Johnson said: "We want to build the widest possible coalition to ensure that we focus on what is happening in Ukraine, the effect that is having on the price of oil and gas."

Boris Johnson said British consumers were feeling the impact of Vladimir Putin's invasion.

"There is no question at all that the spike in oil and gas, that is being felt by British consumers, by everybody who has a central heating system, everybody in this country is seeing the effect of that spike in prices.

"We have to deal with that in any way that we can, and what we need to do is build long-term security of energy supply in this country."

The Prime Minister told reporters at Lancaster House, London that part of the solution was "making sure that we are not as dependent in the West as we currently are on Russian oil and gas".

While only 3% of the UK's gas comes from Russia "a lot more of our diesel" does.

"We have to make sure that other producers are doing what they can and we are going to have to help the whole world move forward with greener solutions," he said.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said it had been in contact with China about the conflict in Ukraine.

Asked about whether the UK Government was concerned about the possibility of Beijing providing Russia with weapons, the No 10 spokesman said: "I can't comment on other countries' intelligence or the reporting of private diplomatic telegrams, but we call on China to play a positive, constructive role in putting pressure on Putin and his regime to withdraw.

"We are in contact with the government of China and will continue to reiterate that message."

He added: "We're very open with China, as is the US and Europe, about what we are asking from them."

Boris Johnson said the West had to "learn our lesson" to avoid being "blackmailed" by Vladimir Putin over oil and gas supplies.

"Listen to what all the other European countries are now saying.

"Three weeks ago, they wouldn't have said that was possible. A month ago before the invasion, everybody was saying 'oh, no, we'll get we'll never be able to do it'.

"Now, after what Putin has done in Ukraine, you're seeing European colleagues step up to the plate and say 'right, this is the time we got to learn our lesson as the West, we've got to end that dependency on Russian hydrocarbons'.

"And that's one of the reasons I'm going out to the Gulf."

More than 100,000 households have registered an interest in opening up their homes to a Ukrainian refugee.

The Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities tweeted: "Thanks to the generosity of the British public we've received over 100K expressions of interest from individuals and organisations so far in our Homes for Ukraine scheme."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted: "It's fantastic that over 100,000 people and organisations have recorded their interest in supporting Ukrainians fleeing the war through the Homes for Ukraine scheme.

"Thank you to everyone across the country who has stepped up to offer their help so far."

The Prime Minister has told his Swedish counterpart that Stockholm and London "share a very common perspective" on what is happening in Ukraine.

Welcoming Magdalena Andersson to Downing Street following a meeting of Joint Expeditionary Force (Jef) nations - which includes Sweden - in central London, Boris Johnson said Tuesday was the first time the pair had met "properly".

Ms Andersson thanked Mr Johnson for inviting her country and other Jef members to attend the summit, saying there had been "interesting discussions with countries that are very like-minded and co-operate together in a very efficient way".

Mr Johnson replied: "In a practical way, because we want to get things done.

"We share a very common perspective on what's happening on our continent."

Before the Swedish bilateral, Mr Johnson also welcomed the Finnish president Sauli Niinisto to No 10.

Taoiseach Micheal Martin said the cabinet had agreed that Ireland would take 500 Ukrainian refugees who are currently in Moldova.

Speaking in Washington, Mr Martin said: "We have just had a cabinet meeting by videolink, mainly on the Ukrainian war and the crisis that is unfolding, the humanitarian crisis.

"We confirmed the support scheme that was agreed earlier in the week in respect of the support for truckers and the haulage industry in light of the exceptional pressures that they are under.

"The cabinet also decided to accept 500 Ukrainian refugees who have fled into Moldova, given the enormous pressure Moldova is under at the moment.

"We will be taking those refugees in towards the end of this week and that is in addition to those that have come in already.

"About 6,646 refugees have now come into Ireland."

The cumulative impact of sanctions on individuals and entities are "really biting on the Russian economy" and associates of Russian President Vladimir Putin, a UK official has said, following the Government's decision to apply at least 350 new sanctions listings.

A UK official, asked about the possibility of further sanctions if the situation in Ukraine worsens, said: "Absolutely, yes.

"We've always been clear that this is essentially a rolling process and I think what you find over time is the cumulative impact of the sanctions we've applied to date are really biting on the Russian economy and people around Putin.

"We want to keep going because it is clear he is not prepared to de-escalate at the moment.

"That will mean that we will continue to look at individuals and companies that we've not yet targeted.

"We'll look also, under these new powers, at the sanctions that our allies are imposing where we may wish to align with those."

Micheal Martin said the EU had agreed further sanctions against Russia.

Speaking about the effort to bring refugees to Ireland, he said: "Thousands of units of accommodation have been secured by the Department of Children and they are continuing to secure additional accommodation.

"They are looking beyond that at the pledges which have been received and they will commence with those properties that are empty with a view to making sure that we can accommodate those who will continue to come into the country."

He added: "There is a range of European Union meetings happening over coming days.

"The European Union have announced further sanctions this morning particularly in terms of iron and steel, listing further individuals, getting rid of the most favoured nation status that Russia enjoyed at the WTO, so the benefits derived from the WTO would be denied Russia, and a number of other measures as well and further sanctions would be kept under constant review.

"We again call on Russia to end the war, it is an appalling tragedy unfolding, it is an appalling immoral attack on the people of Ukraine which has shocked the world in terms of its human toll, and it is absolutely vital that Russia would cease all hostilities."

More family members of Russian oligarchs can expect to be targeted with sanctions, a UK official has said.

The official, asked about the potential to sanction family members of Russian elites, said: "Yes, there is actually quite a wide range, out of the 370, who are family members.

"We will be looking to sanction family members ourselves from now on as well, using these new powers (in the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act) to that effect.

"So there is a number of members, for example, of the big families like the Rotenberg family and a number of the Shuvalov family - (Igor) Shuvalov we sanctioned a couple of weeks ago.

"These kind of big oligarch families where the family members are also associated with the regime and very often benefiting from the regime, as well. So, yes, we are definitely including family members now."

Defending the decision to target luxury goods as part of new sanctions on Tuesday, the UK official said: "The measures today on luxury powers - this is about things that we know those elites around Putin care about, so yes it is symbolic but it is also targeting a specific sector of the Russian elite who are closest to the President."

Irish Environment Minister Eamon Ryan said a big part of St Patrick's Day this year would be the opportunity to show solidarity with Ukraine.

Speaking in Washington, Mr Ryan said: "An important thing about St Patrick's Day this year is a chance for us to talk to colleagues across the world and to share our indignation about what is happening in the Ukraine.

"But also to try and co-ordinate the response.

"I'll be meeting the US Energy Secretary later and I think that is an important part of our St Patrick's Day message, solidarity, working together is the best way to protect ourselves against this crisis and the consequences of it.

"That crisis is hitting home now in energy. We are seeing one of the private companies announcing really dramatic increases in both gas and electricity prices.

"We were aware of that coming and aware of the reality that the high international gas price is going to cause real difficulties for householders.

"That is why we will see in the next couple of weeks a 200 euro credit coming from the Government, it won't cushion the full blow.

"The fuel allowance increase will kick in next week, again it doesn't cover the full burden but it helps, and that is why we made the move on excise duties."

Downing Street has welcomed the strength of the public response to the Government's appeal to offer accommodation to refugees from Ukraine.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said it was a sign to the Ukrainian people of the level of support for them in the UK.

"We have seen a huge response from the British public. The Prime Minister welcomes the generosity of the British people," the spokesman said.

"We knew when we opened the scheme that there would be an outpouring of support but the speed of the uptake and the strength of the interest in this is massively welcome and a sign to the Ukrainian people of the level of support there is for them."

Irish premier Micheal Martin has paid tribute to Irish citizen and photographer Pierre Zakrzewski, who was killed in Ukraine.

Mr Martin tweeted: "Deeply disturbed and saddened by the killing of Irish citizen and journalist Pierre Zakrzewski and one of his colleagues today.

"My thoughts are with their families, friends and fellow journalists.

"We condemn this indiscriminate and immoral war by Russia on Ukraine."

The Irish Foreign Affairs Minister has paid tribute to Irish citizen and photographer Pierre Zakrzewski, who was killed in Ukraine.

Simon Coveney said that officials from the Department of Foreign Affairs were in contact with his family and providing consular assistance.

He said: "The killing of all citizens through this reckless war is deplorable and I also wish to strongly condemn the targeting of journalists who have been working bravely to shine a light on the plight of Ukraine since the outbreak of hostilities.

"Ireland once again calls on Russia to bring an end to this war and we stand ready to support any initiative which can deliver peace.

"We will continue to demand accountability for violations of international humanitarian and human rights law."

Boris Johnson and Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson agreed that the "abhorrent assault" on Ukraine unleashed by Russian President Vladimir Putin has "shifted European thinking", according to No 10.

Offering an account of the bilateral talks between the leaders on Tuesday, a Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The pair agreed that their two nations should further strengthen their work together on disinformation and said they looked forward to British and Swedish forces exercising together as part of JEF (Joint Expeditionary Force) in the coming months.

"Both agreed on the need to reduce dependency on Russian hydrocarbons and the Prime Minister said renewables were a key part of the UK's energy security strategy."

Mr Johnson and Ms Andersson agreed that the UK and Sweden "would continue to work closely to increase defence ties, combat climate change and ensure Putin fails".

Finnish President Sauli Niinisto also met with the Prime Minister and No 10 said the two leaders concurred that "Putin's invasion had dramatically changed the landscape of European security".

"The Prime Minister reiterated that sovereign countries should be able to choose their own future, without fear or threat from Russia," a spokeswoman said.

Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald has joined in with tributes to Irish citizen and photographer Pierre Zakrzewski, who was killed in Ukraine.

The Irish opposition party leader tweeted: "My thoughts are with the family, friends and colleagues of Irish citizen and journalist Pierre Zakrzewski who was killed today in Ukraine.

"The Russian invasion is criminal. We stand together in condemnation of this barbaric military aggression. Russia must immediately withdraw."

The Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities said 122,305 households had expressed an interest in opening up their homes to a Ukrainian refugee, as of 9.15pm.

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220315ei3f000rt


The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says Russia's advance in Ukraine has been stymied...
5801 字
2022 年 3 月 16 日 21:35 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says Russia's advance in Ukraine has been stymied by a lack of manoeuvrability, which has been "adeptly exploited" by the Ukrainian forces.

In its latest defence intelligence update, the MoD wrote on Twitter: "Russian forces are struggling to overcome the challenges posed by Ukraine's terrain.

"Russian forces have remained largely tied to Ukraine's road network and have demonstrated a reluctance to conduct off-road manoeuvre. The destruction of bridges by Ukrainian forces has also played a key role in stalling Russia's advance.

"Russia's continued failure to gain control of the air has drastically limited their ability to effectively use air manoeuvre, further limiting their options.

"The tactics of the Ukrainian armed forces have adeptly exploited Russia's lack of manoeuvre, frustrating the Russian advance and inflicting heavy losses on the invading forces."

Boris Johnson said there is "no way Ukraine is going to join Nato anytime soon" but stressed that the decision had to be for the country's president to take.

Speaking to broadcasters at the Emirates Palace hotel in Abu Dhabi, the Prime Minister said: "I talked to Volodymyr (Zelensky) again yesterday and of course I understand what he is saying about Nato and the reality of the position.

"And everybody has always said - and we've made it clear to (Russian President Vladimir) Putin - that there is no way Ukraine is going to join Nato anytime soon.

"But the decision about the future of Ukraine has got to be for the Ukrainian people, and Volodymyr Zelensky is their elected leader and we will back him.

"And the most important thing is that Putin's aggression, his absolutely barbaric attacks on Ukraine should stop and they should not be seen to have succeeded, and they won't succeed."

The Foreign Secretary said sanctions from the UK and other western nations were having a "debilitating affect on the Russian economy" but urged allies to go further.

Liz Truss, speaking to Sky News, said: "What we know is that Vladimir Putin's plans are not going according to plan.

"He is not making the progress expected, and we know the sanctions we've put on are working.

"They are having a debilitating affect on the Russian economy.... Those sanctions are really beginning to bite."

Ms Truss said further British sanctions should be expected, saying "we've got more individuals on our list" as well as companies to target, but called for allies to do more.

She noted that the European Union had sanctioned three Russian banks compared with the UK and US targeting 10 major banks, and said "we'd like to see them sanction even more banks", while also arguing that more sanctions could come "collectively" from the 141 countries that voted against Russia at the UN General Assembly.

Liz Truss said there was no guarantee sanctioned oligarchs like Roman Abramovich would be free to return to the UK after the Russian war with Ukraine ends.

The Foreign Secretary also said she did not think the conflict was "near the end", in comments made on Sky News.

Put to her that Mr Abramovich could return once Russian troops had withdrawn, Ms Truss said: "No, I haven't said that.

"Because I'm saying even if the war was to end - and I fear we are not near the end, at this stage - huge devastation has been caused, lives have been lost as a result of this war.

"And there will need to be a reckoning with all the people who supported Putin, including Abramovich."

She said the UK was working with allies "in the G7 and beyond" to ensure oligarchs have "nowhere where it is legitimate for them to live their lifestyles, have their yachts or have their planes".

The former head of MI6 said that only China can influence Putin to stop his invasion into Ukraine.

Sir Alex Younger, former head of the Secret Intelligence Service from 2014 to 2020, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Of all the people in the world that can assert influence on Vladimir Putin, who is in his bunker and who is obsessed by achieving greatness through the restoration of the Russian Empire..., of all the people that can talk sense to him, it's Xi (Jinping, the Chinese leader).

"Vladimir Putin needs Xi and of course Xi while he feels he has to align himself at the high level with what Russia is doing because of their new alliance, must be deeply disturbed by what is going on."

He added that the situation in Ukraine is "seriously compounding the economic problems that China face" and carries a "huge reputational risk" for China if they continue to associate themselves with the "murderous activities in Ukraine".

He added: "Putin does not have a reverse gear. He gambled.

"He has hit extraordinary difficulties early on but he's going to keep going and he has to, because he went into this war with a false premise, and he needs to be seen to be bringing something back from it."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said weapons from Western nations are still reaching Ukrainian forces.

He told reporters at Nato's headquarters in Brussels: "We are continuing to deliver weapons into Ukraine from many different directions and it is getting to the front line."

Asked about Poland's suggestion of a Nato peace mission to Ukraine, Mr Wallace said: "I think I'll look at the details first before I make any decisions about what happens.

"But it is absolutely the case that we have to continue to show - in action - our support to Ukraine and its freedoms and not just talk."

He added: "Coming here today, we should also remind ourselves how lucky we are. There is Ukraine, a country currently effectively under siege by an aggressive Russian armed forces - and that's why they wanted to join this alliance.

"I think we have to see what more we can do to give them that support."

Ukrainians are negotiating for peace with Russia with a "gun against their heads", according to the Foreign Secretary.

Liz Truss, speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, said: "The first precursor to any successful peace talks has to be a ceasefire and Putin withdrawing his troops from Ukraine.

"It is very, very difficult for the Ukrainians to negotiate with a gun against their heads.

"And I am very, very concerned that Putin is playing a smoke-and-mirrors game of trying to claim that he is seeking peace while, at the same time, continuing with this appalling war he instigated and is not making the progress he thought he would."

Ms Truss said she thinks Nato membership for Ukraine is "not the real issue" and that it is a "smoke screen", arguing: "This is about recreating a greater Russia and essential subordinating Ukraine under Russian authority, as well as extending more broadly to other east European states.

"This is why it is so important we stop Putin in Ukraine, because it isn't just about Ukraine, it isn't just about Nato - it is about the desire to recreate the Soviet Union. He is clearly an extremely dangerous man."

The UK had "cumbersome" sanction legislation before changes were made this week, Liz Truss said.

Fielding questions on why Britain had taken longer than some of its allies to target individual wealthy Russians with Kremlin links, the Foreign Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "The specific issue here is that we have - or had - some very cumbersome legislation.

"We essentially had unlimited damages if oligarchs sued us, so that made it very difficult for the Government to build the evidence cases against these oligarchs.

"Since the invasion took place, we've put through emergency legislation to cut out these huge damages, which means we've been able to now sanction more individuals and more entities than either the US or the EU."

Ms Truss said the changes made by the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act, which received royal assent on Tuesday, "eliminated" the "huge risk" of the UK Government having to pay "very high damages" to Russian elites contesting British sanctions.

Kevin Foster, Home Office minister for safe and legal migration, told the Commons Home Affairs Committee 5,500 visas have now been granted under the Ukraine Family Scheme and 20,000 applications have been submitted.

The Home Office website said these figures are as of 4pm on Tuesday.

Conservative MP Adam Holloway accused the Government of making it "extraordinarily difficult" for Ukrainian women and children to reach the UK, calling the situation "utterly farcical".

He told the Home Affairs Committee: "I don't know how many people crossed the Channel yesterday, but I wonder what criminal record checks or checks for war crimes were carried out on them? I mean, are we having a kind of a bit of a double standard?

"We're completely failing to stop what are essentially economic migrants, mostly fit young men, and yet we're making it incredibly difficult for women and children to come here with enormous reputational damage to a government is doing really well overall."

In response, Kevin Foster, Home Office minister for safe and legal migration, said people arriving from France are detained and have their biometrics taken, with some exceptions for unaccompanied children and families, and "are subject to the very checks you've just talked about".

Sir Keir Starmer has reiterated his comments that "going cap in hand from dictator to dictator is not an energy strategy" as Boris Johnson continues his visit to the Gulf.

Speaking to reporters in Huddersfield, the Labour leader said: "The Prime Minister says we can't rely on Russia, so now he goes to Saudi Arabia.

"We need to make sure we've got security for our energy and that means lessening our imports and not going cap in hand frankly, from dictator to dictator."

Asked whether he would visit the same region if he was Prime Minister, Sir Keir said: "I've got nothing against measures to try and bring prices down in the short term but Liz Truss was saying only the other day, we've got to stop relying on malign actors and that's why they want to wean us off Russia, but you can't do that and go cap in hand to Saudi Arabia.

"What we need is an energy strategy that has security, less imports, rely on renewables here, ramp up onshore and offshore wind, get nuclear going much more quickly and have retrofit like we're seeing here in Kirklees, so we drive down the need for energy in the first place."

He added: "If there's one lesson we've learned in the last few weeks and months, it's that we need to stop this reliance, dependency, on oil and gas from overseas, Russia in particular, but you don't do that by jumping from Russia to Saudi Arabia and recreating the exact same problem."

On Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's comment that the country would not join Nato, Sir Keir Starmer said: "President Zelensky has been leading from the front in a really courageous way in Ukraine and we were all moved when he addressed Parliament last week.

"Obviously, it's a matter for him how he negotiates.

"I am concerned that what we've seen here is Russia's aggression against the sovereignty of Ukraine and it's very important that we all stand up for the principles here, but as to the precise negotiations, that's a matter for him."

Sir Keir Starmer has told the Government to "up its game" in supporting Ukrainian refugees, calling their approach "too narrow, too slow and too mean".

The Labour leader told reporters in Huddersfield: "The British public have been incredibly welcoming and generous. They've given generously to various schemes to support refugees, a number of thousands of people have said they'll take a refugee - if only the Government actually matched the ambition of the British public, because their approach has been too narrow, too slow and too mean.

"What I want to see from the Government is a realistic package of support for refugees arriving here, who will be traumatised, many of them will have family back in Ukraine that they're desperately worried about, with all sorts of medical needs, schooling needs and work needs.

"So thank you to the British public for their generosity. 'Up your game' is my message to the Government in relation for what they're doing for refugees."

Sir Keir added: "I don't think the Government has put in place the underlying support that's needed. I don't think they've been talking to local leaders, local government, local housing providers because, in the end, what we learned from the Afghan refugees coming last summer is you need that support package, because you're dealing very traumatised people who do have needs which require specialist help and assistance.

"The generosity of the British public is exactly what I would have expected, it's fantastic, but the Government needs to match that now with putting that support in to make sure that this is a realistic and viable option, and not one that just collapses in on itself."

The Home Affairs Committee was told that local authorities will receive £10,500 per refugee for the first year to support Ukrainians through education, English language support, safeguarding and social care.

Under current plans the Government is not asking councils primarily to help with accommodation, as it intends to rely on the more than 120,000 people who have expressed interest so far under the Homes For Ukraine scheme.

Labour MP Clive Betts asked: "Isn't there a potential real problem there? That if there is a concentration of refugees coming to certain areas, where there may already be enormous pressure on things like child mental health, school places, that it will simply not be possible to give them the sorts of services they actually need?"

The Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, replied: "I'm not turning my mind to that yet... it's a very valid point and please don't think I'm fobbing you off, but for the moment we just have to get these people in."

He added: "We're going to have to - we're going to have to find school places and we're going to have to find extra social workers."

The refugee minister has told MPs he expects "thousands of people" to arrive next week under the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme, but warned it "may not be possible" for all accommodation being offered to be checked beforehand.

Asked if checks will be carried out by councils on accommodation under the Homes for Ukraine scheme before Ukrainians are housed in the UK, Lord Richard Harrington told the Commons Home Affairs Committee: "It may not be possible.

"I mean, I'm talking next week ... I'm expecting thousands of people to come but it will be their responsibility and, particularly where there's a possibility of vulnerability with children, this sort of thing, that would take priority.

"But if we started saying we're going to preview it, it's just not possible."

Asked by the committee if he could give assurances that Ukrainian refugees will not be housed in hotels, he replied: "I honestly can't give you that undertaking. I'd like to but it's not our intention. But if all else fails, it's our duty to make sure they've got a roof over their head and they're fed properly.

"It's not our plan, it's not our strategy. We've got thousands of people from Afghanistan staying in hotels. We've got thousands of asylum seekers. So it's not the plan but I can't give you 100% assurance because I just don't know."

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab, opening Prime Minister's Questions, told the Commons: "I understand that four members of the Ukrainian parliament are here with us in the gallery today and I'm sure I speak for the whole House in saying that we stand in total solidarity with you."

Conservative MP Dean Russell (Watford) raised concerns over the Gambling Commission announcing that Czech operator Allwyn, owned by Czech businessman Karel Komarek and previously known as Sazka Entertainment, was its "preferred applicant" to run the National Lottery when Camelot's licence expires in 2024.

Mr Russell, who noted Camelot is a major employer in his constituency, told the Commons: "I do wonder, given the current situation in Ukraine, if (Mr Raab) considers it appropriate that the next licensee of the operator of the National Lottery is known to have a joint venture with Gazprom?"

Mr Raab replied: "I understand that Allwyn's owner Mr Komarek, who has long criticised the Putin regime, is in discussions with the Czech Republic government regarding the joint venture with Gazprom and removing its involvement."

People who have registered interest under the Homes For Ukraine scheme who have identified someone they can sponsor will be able to apply from Friday, the Home Affairs Committee heard.

MPs were told that there are lots of informal networks and charities which are identifying people and helping match them with sponsors.

Conservative MP Tim Loughton called for regular updates for the public about progress, "otherwise people will get very frustrated, as they did in some of the volunteering schemes in the pandemic signed up, and then they never got called on to do anything".

Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, replied: "I'm doing my best to make sure that does not happen... I want it to work. I believe when it works through, the real conduit for this will be those NGOs on the ground, and they'll become expert at it."

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner pushed the Deputy Prime Minister on the appointment of Lord Lebedev to the House of Lords.

She said: "The right honourable member was foreign secretary on March 17 2020 when British intelligence reportedly warned against the granting of peerage to the Prime Minister's close friend and now Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia. Forty-eight hours later the Prime Minister visited Lebedev at his home in London; details of that meeting have never been released.

"In July 2020 Lebedev's appointment as peer was announced. So can he tell the House what changed between the security warning and the appointment?"

Mr Raab said: "The honourable lady knows full well all individuals nominated for a peerage are done so in recognition of what their contribution is to society. And I should say, that includes those of Russian origin who contribute brilliantly to our nation, many of whom in this country are critics of the Putin regime.

"Life peerages are vetted by the House of Lords' appointments commission for matters of probity and frankly I think she should know better."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner pressed Dominic Raab on whether he has ever "overruled or ignored" direct advice from the British security services.

Ms Rayner said: "I'd like to thank all of the people who have been working tirelessly to bring British nationals home from Iran, our diplomatic staff, and our world leading British intelligence agencies.

"The role of the British intelligence today is critical in the face of Putin's aggression. The Deputy Prime Minister oversaw our foreign intelligence services as foreign secretary. So, can he confirm if at any time he overruled or ignored direct advice from the British security services?"

Mr Raab replied: "Can I say to the honourable lady, what she suggests is nonsense. She's talking about the House of Lords Appointments Commission. They have a vetting process. I have never overruled intelligence advice and I wouldn't comment on the details of it.

"What I would say, and would agree with her on the strength, the agility of the British diplomatic service, which time and time again, are the unsung heroes in returning British nationals - often less celebrated cases than this - but I think now is a great opportunity to recognise the heroic work they do."

Tory MP Adam Holloway asked if taxpayers' money will be used to fund the stay in the UK of working-age men who the Ukrainian government expect to remain and defend the country.

Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, said the UK cannot run a humanitarian mission and bar such men.

He told the Home Affairs Committee: "This is a mass movement of people. And the Ukrainian government will advise us on what they want to do, but just because they're there in Poland, doesn't mean they're deserters. I mean, there'll be all sorts of reasons for it.

"So I'm afraid it's not a satisfactory answer, but we can't start being the police officer for the Ukrainian government, and they've got enough problems on their mind to do it."

(corrected repetition, amends question number in par 2. First ran at 1231)

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab said Labour would put security at risk.

Responding to Angela Rayner's fourth question in the Commons, he said: "The suggestion she's making is sheer nonsense. But if she wants to talk about national security then I remind her that she and her shadow cabinet colleagues not so long ago wanted the honourable member for Islington North (Jeremy Corbyn)... a man who wanted and talked about abolishing the Army, pulling out of Trident - she voted for that.

"Has there ever been a more ridiculous, reckless, naive moment to call for unilateral nuclear disarmament and pulling out of Nato?

"A Labour government would put at risk our security. We're doing everything we can to protect it."

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner asked in the Commons if the Prime Minister "ever asked anyone to urge the security services to revise, reconsider or withdraw their assessment of Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia".

Asking her fourth question during Prime Minister's Questions with Dominic Raab, she said: "What I do know better is the central duty of any Government is to keep the British people safe. There are now widespread reports that the Prime Minister did not accept warnings from our own intelligence services, granting a Russian oligarch, the son and business partner of a KGB spy, a seat here in this Parliament.

"It shouldn't matter if such a warning was about a close personal friend of the Prime Minister. It shouldn't matter if he gave the Prime Minister thousands of pounds of gifts. And it shouldn't matter how much champagne and caviar he serves.

"There is no ifs or buts when it comes to the safety of the British people. So I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, can he guarantee that the Prime Minister never asked anyone to urge the security services to revise, reconsider or withdraw their assessment of Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia?"

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner accused the Government of going "cap in hand from one dictator to another" by asking Saudi Arabia to produce more oil following the move to divest from Russian fossil fuels.

After facing heckles from the Government benches and a call for order by Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle at Deputy Prime Minister's Questions, the deputy leader of the opposition added: "The Government benches have a choice - they can accept Labour's plan to save working families hundreds of pounds on bills funded by a one-off levy on the soaring profits of energy companies.

"So I ask the Deputy Prime Minister - is their only plan to keep on begging?"

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab replied: "Can I just gently say to her that when she was campaigning as the rest of them were to make the member of Islington North (Jeremy Corbyn) prime minister, this Prime Minister was foreign secretary, leading the response to the nerve agent attack on Salisbury."

After further calls for order for the Commons Speaker, Mr Raab added that Jeremy Corbyn had "sided with Putin" in the past, and quoted Ms Rayner's past words that Mr Corbyn was a "very strong leader" and could not wait for him to become Prime Minister.

The Government has led the way on Russian sanctions and by providing a "big-hearted response" to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, Dominic Raab has said.

Asking her final question during Prime Minister's Questions, Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner said: "There is a war in Europe. There is a fuel energy crisis in Britain. Democracy is at risk. We must support the courageous efforts of President Zelensky and the Ukrainian people.

"These uncertain times require leadership with integrity. A leader that works with the security services, can be trusted to say the right thing for British diplomacy and provide security to the British people.

"Instead we have got this sorry excuse of a Government that is before us."

She accused the Government of "partying during lockdown" adding: "Can the Deputy Prime Minister look the British people in the eye and say this Government is doing their best?

Mr Raab replied that the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary had shown leadership with the "impact of the sanctions and the diplomatic effort" which had let to the "rouble plummeting".

He added: "We have also shown the big-hearted spirit of this Government and indeed this nation", by processing visas for Ukrainians and with the new humanitarian sponsorship scheme.

Conservative Claire Coutinho (East Surrey) called for recognition for service personnel for their role in "working with the Ukrainian armed forces in helping to shore up the eastern flank of Nato".

Speaking during PMQs, she said: "British servicemen and women have served under Operations Cabrit and Orbital since 2015 working with the Ukrainian armed forces in helping to shore up the eastern flank of Nato, which is now more important than ever.

"Would the Deputy Prime Minister join with me in putting on the record the gratitude of this House and consider what recognition we can give them for their service and for their role in history?"

Dominic Raab replied: "She's absolutely right. She's totally right to pay tribute to the professionalism, the dedication, the sacrifice of our armed service men and women every day to defend this country.

"She'll know that recognition for all military operations is kept under continuous review and I know that the Defence Secretary will have heard her very compelling suggestions."

It remains Ukraine's "absolute right" as a "free nation" to apply for Nato membership in the future, Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith has said.

Sir Iain told the Commons: "Can I ask my right honourable friend that as the brilliant Ukrainian people fight and die on a daily basis for their rights of freedom and democracy, it's important therefore that we make something very clear and I wonder if he would do this.

"They have asked for membership of Nato for a significant period and Nato has chosen not to give it to them. My concern now is no matter what they decide, it remains their absolute right as a free nation and a free people to make such an application in the future, and noticing that Finland is talking about being a member, that we treat them in exactly the same way as we would an application from Finland."

Dominic Raab replied: "He will have heard what President Zelensky has said overnight in relation to this. But one of the things that we have always been crystal clear as a Government is that if there is a diplomatic offer and, I have to say we have a heavy measure of scepticism about whether Putin could ever fulfil such a deal, but if there is, it has to be done with the will and volition of the Ukrainian President and the Ukrainian people."

Dominic Raab told MPs the "Prime Minister is not just a very social individual" as a Labour MP asked him "what first attracted the Prime Minister to the billionaire Russian oligarchs?"

Speaking at PMQs, Labour's Matt Western (Warwick and Leamington) said: "I'm sure the Deputy Prime Minister will agree with me that when it comes to judging a person, it's often done by the company that they keep."

To laughter from some MPs in the Commons, Mr Western added: "Can he therefore tell us what first attracted the Prime Minister to the billionaire Russian oligarchs?"

Mr Raab replied: "I wasn't quite sure where he was going at the beginning of his question, but what I can tell him - the Prime Minister is not just a very social individual.

"He wants this country to be open, outward-looking to the world, but we were the Government and he was the Prime Minister and I was the foreign secretary that introduced the Magnitsky sanctions that put human rights sanctions, asset freezes and visa bans, not just on Russians where we have evidence of wrongdoing, but... many others. It was this Government, not the Labour Party."

Irish premier Micheal Martin has spoken to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

Mr Martin, who is in Washington for St Patrick's Day celebrations, tweeted: "I told him the Irish people stand fully behind Ukraine.

"He thanked us for our continued humanitarian aid, shelter, global support and sanctions against Russia.

"He offered sympathy to the family of journalist Pierre Zakrzewski."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeted that he had spoken to Irish premier Micheal Martin on Wednesday.

He tweeted: "Discussed countering aggression & horrific crimes of Russia against civilians."

Mr Zelensky said he offered his condolences over the death of Irish cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski, who was killed while working in Ukraine.

David Cameron called for a dedicated aid minister in the Cabinet as he said more could be done to support Ukraine with the humanitarian crisis.

The former prime minister was asked on Channel 4 News whether he would rule out putting a no-fly zone in place over Ukraine if he was in office, and said: "I'm afraid I would, you know, in our hearts, every shred of our being wants to do everything we can to help the Ukrainians in the struggle.

"And we are helping, we're helping with weapons, we're helping with training, we're helping with refugees. There's more we can do on humanitarian aid, but I think we have to be very clear with our friends and allies and people we care deeply about, we must be clear about what we can do. But I'm afraid we also have to be clear about what we can't do.

"That said, there are more things that we can do. Well, I think the process started under my premiership of sending more troops to frontline states in Nato, to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania. Let's turn some of those into permanent bases.

"Let's do more on humanitarian aid. We achieved 0.7% of GDP in our aid payments. I'm sad we've got away from that. I hope we can get back there.

"Let's with the EU lead the donor conference, lead the aid effort. Let's have a dedicated aid minister in the Cabinet doing development. The Foreign Office ministers do a great job, but it'd be good to have someone who's 100% dedicated to humanitarian aid and development."

Former prime minister David Cameron said he regrets the "feeble" western response to Russia's invasion of Georgia in 2008.

Mr Cameron was asked on Channel 4 News whether he regretted his involvement with Russia, including a speech at the State University of Moscow in 2011 where he said Britain and Russia would be "stronger together".

He said: "What I regret is in 2008, when I was leader of the opposition, when Russia effectively invaded Georgia, I went to Tbilisi to show solidarity with President Saakashvili. And if you look at the western response to Georgia, it was feeble, there weren't sanctions, there wasn't pressure put in place.

"We should have done that in 2008 and we did behave differently in 2012 when Putin invaded Crimea, in 2014."

He said by 2014 the UK was leading the effort on sanctions, adding: "When I think back to that time, you know, we were trying to persuade... I mean, the French at that stage were selling warships to the Russians."

He said when he entered No 10 "there was a sense that, look, you had to try and find a way of working with these people".

"We had to work together over terrorism, we had to work together over climate change. We had to work together over banking regulations," he said.

"I thought we had to do business with Russia and its leadership, which at that time was more (Dmitry) Medvedev than Putin."

David Cameron defended the Conservative Party receiving money from Russian donors.

The former prime minister told Channel 4 News: "If the argument is that somehow Russian investment in Britain, or very small numbers of Russians supporting the Conservative Party, somehow changed our policy, I would say that it's complete nonsense."

He refused to be drawn on accusations against Boris Johnson regarding the elevation of Evgeny Lebedev to the House of Lords.

Mr Cameron said: "Look, that's for the Prime Minister to explain and to defend.

"The Lords Appointments Commission is an important body. I always listened to it very carefully. But I'm not here to start throwing bricks at the Prime Minister at this moment."

Refugee minister Lord Harrington, answering questions from peers about the Ukrainian sponsorship scheme, said: "When I was offered the job by the Prime Minister the only criteria I was given was in fact a security one; it's my job to make sure it's done as quickly as possible and as humanely as possible."

The Conservative peer stressed the importance of protecting national security, adding: "But that doesn't mean we're obsessed by it."

Lord Harrington said the Home Office team has more than 100 people and will be "double that by the weekend", adding of the application assessment process: "I've set the target of 24 hours - it may be more if they're so overwhelmed by it but I expect it to come down and down.

"The only reason for that delay is so that we can... it really boils down to criminal record checks from all the databases they've got, it's not more complex than that."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220316ei3g001jl


Latvia: Some EUR 11.5mn are frozen in Latvian banks due to sanctions against Russia
190 字
2022 年 3 月 18 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Amount of frozen funds is likely to increase as research is still ongoing

Some EUR 11.5mn have been frozen in Latvian banks by March 11 due to sanctions imposed by the European Union and the US Office of Foreign Assets Control against Russia, the Finance and Capital Market Commission (FKTK) Finance and Capital Market Commission (FKTK) informed on Thursday, local media reported. More specifically, two natural persons have been identified who are directly subject to sanctions and 26 legal persons not directly included in the sanction lists but the ownership of sanctioned persons in these legal entities have been identified, the FKTK said. It noted the amount of frozen funds will likely increase in the future as research is still ongoing, while some high-risk customer accounts have been suspended and new sanctions have been imposed.

To note, the FKTK had previously implemented an approach that considers Russia to be a high-risk jurisdiction, so Russia deposits in Latvian banks have decreased considerably since 2015 and represent merely 1.1% of deposits in total.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220318ei3i00036


PM Karins reassures ambassador of Latvia's support for Ukraine in its fight against Putin regime
Krišs Jānis Kairis
260 字
2022 年 3 月 18 日 13:30 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, March 18 (LETA) - Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins (New Unity) in a meeting with Ukrainian Ambassador to Latvia Olexandr Mischenko on Friday reassured him of Latvia's support for Ukraine in its fight against Russian President Vladimir Putin's regime, LETA was told at the prime minister's office.

The meeting of the Latvian prime minister and the Ukrainian ambassador focused on the current situation in connection with Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Karins offered condolences over Ukrainian civilians' suffering and the loss of life, stressing that the Russian officials responsible for starting the war will be called to account in an international court.

Karins and the ambassador discussed the sanctions imposed by the European Union (EU) on the Putin regime, including the fourth package of EU sanctions that was approved earlier this week. The prime minister underlined the importance of compliance with the sanction regime, so that Russians could not get around them. Karins also told the ambassador that Latvia continues to call for more extensive EU sanctions against the Putin regime, adding that all sanction options are open.

The prime minister indicated that Latvia's society, state and municipal institutions are supporting Ukraine in its fight against the Putin regime will continue to provide all the possible assistance to Ukraine and its people. Latvia is open to the refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine and support is being organized to provide them with accommodation and other essential aid.

34464341413536362D413335352D3437

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220318ei3i0025t


PM assures Ukrainian envoy of Latvia's support against Russia
275 字
2022 年 3 月 18 日 13:51 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
Text of report in English by Latvian news agency LETA on 18 March

RIGA, March 18 (LETA) - Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins (New Unity) in a meeting with Ukrainian Ambassador to Latvia Olexandr Mischenko on Friday reassured him of Latvia's support for Ukraine in its fight against Russian President Vladimir Putin's regime, LETA was told at the prime minister's office.

The meeting of the Latvian prime minister and the Ukrainian ambassador focused on the current situation in connection with Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Karins offered condolences over Ukrainian civilians' suffering and the loss of life, stressing that the Russian officials responsible for starting the war will be called to account in an international court.

Karins and the ambassador discussed the sanctions imposed by the European Union (EU) on the Putin regime, including the fourth package of EU sanctions that was approved earlier this week. The prime minister underlined the importance of compliance with the sanction regime, so that Russians could not get around them. Karins also told the ambassador that Latvia continues to call for more extensive EU sanctions against the Putin regime, adding that all sanction options are open.

The prime minister indicated that Latvia's society, state and municipal institutions are supporting Ukraine in its fight against the Putin regime [and] will continue to provide all the possible assistance to Ukraine and its people. Latvia is open to the refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine and support is being organised to provide them with accommodation and other essential aid.

Source: LETA website, Riga, in English 1330 gmt 18 Mar 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220318ei3i001gt


CSDD imposes sanctions on 48 vehicles owned by seven companies in Latvia
BNN
262 字
2022 年 3 月 18 日 13:21 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2022. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Latvian Road Traffic Safety Directorate (CSDD), as a holder of a register of national significance, has imposed sanctions on 48 vehicles in seven companies, as confirmed by CSDD.

Vehicles in question are owned by persons under international sanctions. At the request of their owners, vehicles may not be removed from the records, they cannot be used for registration of a commercial pledge mark or change hands.

Sanctions were imposed on the following enterprises: LLC Ezermaļu mežu īpašumi, LLC Riga Fertilizer Terminal, LLC Klauģu muiža RE, JSC Severstaļ Lat, LLC Severstal distribution, LLC Uralchem Trading, LLC Uralkali Trading.

The vehicles under sanction range from motorcycles, quadricycles, shuttle buses, cars and pickup trucks intended to be used for commercial activities.

Read also: Day 23 of war in Ukraine: Air strike on Lviv, Russia searches for opponents in occupied territories, plans «referendums»

Some vehicles may fall in the category of exclusive vehicles with their first registration having taken place either in 2021 or 2022. There are only several such vehicles.

CSDD together with other state-maintained registers’ delegated representatives participate in work groups in order to implement sanctions, as well as find optimal solutions to ensure sanctions are followed. Relevant information is handed to the Ministry of Justice, which plays the role of the coordinator when it comes to applying sanctions in regards to state-maintained registers.

The post CSDD imposes sanctions on 48 vehicles owned by seven companies in Latvia appeared first on Baltic News Network - News from Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020220318ei3i0008f


Programme: property owned by families of two of «Putin’s friends» avoid sanctions
BNN
1152 字
2022 年 3 月 21 日 11:43 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2022. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Following the implementation of EU and US sanctions against Russia, more than EUR 11 million has been frozen in Latvian banks.

As reported by TV3 programme Nekā personīga, Dmitry Mazepin, Aleksey Mordashev and other Russian billionaires are beneficial owners in enterprises that make up a major part of Russian state capital in Latvia. Friendship with Putin has allowed them to become billionaires.

Latvia has frozen not only most of those enterprises’ accounts but has also closed down more than 40 pieces of real estate owned by Russian businessmen in the country. Nekā personīga, however, is aware that the homes owned by multiple families of Russian oligarchs have managed to avoid sanctions.

Russian billionaire and once Vladimir Putin’s party member Dmitry Mazepin has banned from entering EU member states, UK included. All of his assets in those sanctions should be frozen in accordance with the Law on Sanctions.

NP notes: «The owner of mineral fertilizer production company Uralchem is one of Putin’s closest associates. Mezepin supports Russia’s activities and policy, and his companies contribute a great deal of income for Russia.»

«The day Russia started a war in Ukraine, Mazepin was among 37 businessmen who attended an audience with Putin in the Kremlin.»

According to data from Lursoft, Dmitry Mazepin is the beneficial owner in four enterprises registered in Latvia, with the biggest one being Uralkali Trading. This company had a turnover of nearly EUR 2 billion in 2020. Mazepin also receives wealth from LLC Ventamonjaks, where shares are also indirectly owned by Aivars Lembergs’ son-in-law Jāņis Austriņš.

Also Mazepin owns LLC Riga Fertilizer Terminal at Riga Commercial Port, which is associated with Andris Šķēle and Ainārs Šlesers families.

All accounts of these companies are currently frozen in Latvian banks, as conformed by the Finance and Capital Market Commission.

Real estate located in Riga, Ulriekstes Street and Ventamonjaks’ five-storey building in Ventspils, Dzintari Street is also arrested following a verdict from a court of law.

Mazepin’s close relations with Putin have also affected his son. F1 team HAAS has refused Mazepin’s company as a sponsor and Nikita Mazepin has lost his place in Formula-1 competition.

Nekā personīga also found out that in 2015 Nikita Mazepin purchased an apartment in Riga, Elizabetes Street 3. The 100 m2 apartment was purchased for EUR 707 000.

Because Mazepin Jr. is included on EU sanctions, the court of law in Latvia has also put under arrest his owned property in the Quiet Centre.

On 3 March the EU added the so-called steel baron Aleksey Mordashev to the list of sanctions.

«He too participated in the meeting in Kremlin on 24 February, despite him saying he has nothing to do with the ongoing geopolitical tension,» NP reports.

Mordashev is the owner of Russia’s largest steel production plan Severstal.

There is no information about if the USD 500 million Nord yacht with a helicopter landing platform is still able to freely sail near the Seychelles, where it was spotted for the last time. There is also no information about the location of Mordashev’s aircraft – Bombardier Global 6 000. However, Forbes reports that Mordashev’s second yacht – Lady M – is located in Italy, where it remains under arrest. The value of this vessels is estimated around EUR 27 million.

In Latvia Mordashev is the beneficial owner of Severstal Distribution. Ten years ago Mordashev was awarded with Latvian Cross of Recognition by then the President of Latvia Andris Bērziņš.

On 9 March 2022 this award was taken away from Mordashev.

The latest financial account indicates Mordashev’s company Severstal Distribution in Latvia operates with turnover of EUR 700 million and about 200 employees. In 2020 the company’s profits reached EUR 29 million. According to information from FKTK, this company’s accounts in Latvia are frozen.

Sanctions also include Russian Alfa Bank’s owner Pyotr Aven. The grandson of Latvian red rifleman has no enterprises in Latvia. However, in 2012 he did acquire Latvian citizenship, though allegedly through dubious means. To take it away, it is necessary to amend the law.

Aven has private interests in Madona. The Russian billionaire owns enormous territories near the Small and Large Klauģu lake. Five years ago an exclusive apartment and leisure complex was built there – Klauģu Manor. The value of the property is about EUR 11 million.

All accounts associated with Madona-based companies (LLC Klauģu Manor RE, LLC Klauģu Manor and Ezermaļu mežu īpašumi) are frozen.

A ban has been imposed on flights of Aven’s indirectly owned Bell 429. It was previously used for Aven’s personal transportation and commercial flights.

NP also reports that together with Aven, the US and EU have imposed sanctions on the other Alfa Bank owner Mikhail Fridman. «He is on the British list of sanctions. It should be said Fridman stays there the most often. He told Bloomberg that he is provided with USD 3 000 a month for living expenses and he needs to ask the parliament for permission to spend money.»

In Latvia Fridman owns a luxury apartment home in Jurmala, Majori, through a Cyprus-based company. Two years ago Fridman invested about half a million euros into real estate located on Ērgļu Street.

Additionally, LLC Seagul Investment accounts in Latvia have been frozen.

However, no bans will apply to another one of Putin’s associates – the villa owned by Alisher Usmanov’s family in Jurmala, NP found.

The building located on Kāpu Street 51 in Melluži was purchased by the billionaire’s wife Irina Vinere and her son Anton for EUR 4 million. According to Russian media, Anton was adopted by Usmanov. Vinere’s Instagram account has photos and videos taken on the territory of Usmanov’s family in Latvia. The Ministry of Justice stresses: «Because the names of Usmanov’s wife and adopted son are not on the sanction lists, they are not applied with sanctions. To prove the house is used or managed by the person under sanctions, we need evidence.»

NP journalists say that no prohibitions or sanctions are applied on the property owned by Boris Rotenberg. The luxury villa Safiri not far from Baltezers in Ropaži is owned by IMNI, which was written off to Rotenber’s son Roman after the annexation of Crimea. The firm was founded in 2012 with base capital of EUR 700 000. A day later the house was purchased, NP reports.

«The 40-year-old Rotenberg is on the US list of sanctions.»

He is the vice-president of Gazprombank. He is responsible for customer attraction. He is also the vice-president of SKA ice hockey club. Roman Rotenberg holds Finnish citizenship.

The post Programme: property owned by families of two of «Putin’s friends» avoid sanctions appeared first on Baltic News Network - News from Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020220321ei3l0005m


CE Noticias Financieras English
Ricardinho's ACCS will play in the Final Four of the Champions League
192 字
2022 年 3 月 30 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The French ACCS, coached by the Spanish Sergio Mullor and in which Ricardinho plays, will play the Final Four of the UEFA Futsal Champions League, to be played in Riga (Latvia) between April 29 and May 1. The French team will take the place of Russian Tyumen, who won their group, but have been excluded due to UEFA sanctions against Russia.

The French team will thus enter the draw to be held on May 7, along with Barça, Sporting Portugal and Benfica. ACCS finished second in their Elite Round group after losing to Tyumen, drawing with Kazakhstan's Kairat Almaty and beating Belarus' Viten Orsha in the last round. Earlier, in the Main Round, they finished second behind Sporting Portugal and ahead of Dobovec of Slovenia and Kazakhstan's Atyaru.

ACCS has just been proclaimed champion of the French Second Division in which it is playing this season due to a sanction for financial irregularities last season, when it won the First Division with Jesús Velasco on the bench and Carlos Ortiz in the squad.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220330ei3u00aeh


Latvia does not support ruble payments for gas - Foreign Minister
Inese Trenča
456 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日 13:44 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, April 4 (LETA) - Latvia does not support ruble payments for Russian gas, the Foreign Ministry's press secretary Janis Bekeris told LETA.

In this regard, the European Union's common opinion is highly important, emphasized Bekeris. The European Commission is currently working on a uniform position for all EU member countries.

"Russia's claims mean an unjustified attempt to unilaterally change the terms of the agreement," said Bekeris.

Latvijas Gaze natural gas company continues to analyze in depth the change in the proposed settlement method both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of the group's business interests, as the company told Nasdaq Riga stock exchange on Sunday.

Latvijas Gaze has entered into a valid long-term agreement on the supply of natural gas until 2030 with Russia's Gazprom, which provides for settlements for natural gas in euros, said the company's representatives.

According to the changes in the legislation of the Russian Federation, starting from April 1, 2022, settlements for natural gas supplies made after April 1, 2022 in accordance with the foreign trade agreements of Gazprom for the supply of natural gas abroad (to a number of countries) must be made only in Russian rubles.

"Assessing the compliance of the said change of the settlement procedure with the previously established sanction regime, the first impression is that such settlement procedure - in Russian rubles - does not formally violate the sanction regime and is possible. At present, Latvijas Gaze continues to analyze in depth the change in the proposed settlement method both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of the group's business interests," said Latvijas Gaze statement.

Latvijas Gaze chairman of the Board Aigars Kalvitis said that the amount of natural gas reserves of Latvijas Gaze in the natural gas storage facility is sufficient to fulfill its contractual obligations to households and other customers by supplying the natural gas pumped into the storage facility.

"The decision not to pump gas through pipelines in April was taken in view of the historically high natural gas prices in April, which would lead to disproportionately high natural gas sales prices to our customers and make such offers uncompetitive," explained Kalvitis.

Latvijas Gaze continues to supply natural gas to households and other customers in accordance with the obligations of the concluded contracts and within the terms stipulated in the contract and is fully prepared to continue to do so, said Kalvitis.

As reported, Russian President Vladimir Putin last Thursday signed a decree obliging countries labelled by Russia as "unfriendly" to pay for Russian gas imports in rubles as of Friday, April 1.

43423036313436302D333733362D3441

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220404ei440028l


No Latvian company will pay for natural gas in Russian rubles - PM Karins
375 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日 16:46 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2022 Baltic News Service
RIGA, Apr 4, BNS - No Latvian company, be it a state-owned or private enterprise, will pay for natural gas in Russian rubles, Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins (New Unity) told journalists following the weekly coalition meeting Monday. 

He said that this would be a matter of sanctions, so this is just not going to happen. 

Juris Puce, chairman of the Group of Development/For in the Saeima, said he was glad that all political groups in the Latvian parliament were unanimous that Latvia should not pay for gas in rubles. 

"I am glad that there is not even the slightest support among Latvia's coalition parties for something like that - that we might suddenly start paying in rubles," said Puce.

As reported, Putin last Thursday signed a decree obliging countries labelled by Russia as "unfriendly" to pay for Russian gas imports in rubles as of Friday, April 1.

Western countries indicated that such a requirement is a breach of the existing contracts and that they have no intention of paying for Russian gas in rubles.

Latvian gas utility Latvijas Gaze said in a statement that "assessing the compliance of the said change of the settlement procedure with the previously established sanction regime, the first impression is that such settlement procedure - in Russian rubles - does not formally violate the sanction regime and is possible. At present, Latvijas Gaze continues to analyze in depth the change in the proposed settlement method both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of the group's business interests."

Earlier, Latvijas Gaze CEO Aigars Kalvitis said that under the terms of the current gas supply  agreement, effective until 2030, payments for gas are made in euros.

Uldis Bariss, CEO of Conexus Baltic Grid gas system operator, said on Latvian Radio on Monday that the Baltic states were no longer importing Russian natural gas. "Since April 1st Russian natural gas is no longer flowing to Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania," he told Latvian Radio.

Natural gas is now supplied to consumers from a LNG terminal in Klaipeda, Lithuania, and Latvia's underground gas storage facility in Incukalns.

BNS, +371 67088611, zinas@bns.lv

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020220404ei44005eh


EU considering coal, oil sanctions against Russia - Dombrovskis
LETA
361 字
2022 年 4 月 5 日 09:06 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
LUXEMBOURG, April 5 (LETA--AFP) - The EU is considering to hit Russia with sanctions on oil or coal over the war in Ukraine, a top official said on Tuesday, though some countries remain worried of the potential economic fallout.

The European Union and US are currently preparing more sanctions against Russia after allegations that Russian forces carried out war crimes when dozens of bodies were discovered near Kiev.

The Europeans are under pressure to hit Moscow in the crucial energy sector and stop paying out the huge proceeds from gas, oil and coal that are helping Russia pay for the war.

"I don't want to preview but indeed there are discussions on what can be done in an area of energy like coal and oil," said EU executive vice president Valdis Dombrovskis as he arrived for EU minister talks in Luxembourg.

"Discussions about this are ongoing. As far as the European Commission is concerned, it's definitely an option, he added.

The European Commission in Brussels draws up sanction decisions but adoption requires unanimity across the 27 member states.

So far countries deeply dependent on Russia for energy - such as Germany, Austria and Italy - have resisted expanding the measures to gas or oil and have fought off pleas to do so from Poland and the Baltic states, as well as the United States.

Germany on Monday said gas was still off limits for now, given its continued importance to the European economy, while on Tuesday Austria indicated that coal imports could be an option.

"We will discuss (the question of coal) today," said Austrian Finance Minister Magnus Brunner.

"We must always be careful with the sanctions and calmly consider what effects it has for ourselves," he added.

EU foreign ministers could adopt the latest package, either on the sidelines of NATO or G7 meetings happening Wednesday and Thursday, or at their regular meeting early next week.

Since Russia's military buildup against Ukraine began, sanctions against Moscow have been coordinated with the United States and other Western allies.

Washington on Monday said more sanctions against Russia would be announced "this week".

31413133374644452D383939462D3438

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220405ei450012x


To adopt tougher sanctions, EU member states must stop fearing Russia - PM Karins
Anastasija Tetarenko
351 字
2022 年 4 月 6 日 06:28 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, April 6 (LETA) - To adopt more severe sanctions on Russia, all European Union (EU) member states must stop fearing Russia, Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins (New Unity) said in an interview with TV3 channel Wednesday.

The new package of EU sanctions is not as tough as Karins wanted it to be already at the start of the war, but the sanctions are already "unbelievably stricter" than any sanctions ever applied to a country. For the time being, EU member states are not ready to sanction the entire energy sector, but it is good that they are at least starting with coal, the prime minister said.

"The work is not over. Talks with partners are ongoing, it is essential that all measures are taken jointly," Karins stressed.

In Karins' opinion, the slow change of perspective on Russia is the biggest obstacle to the adoption of harsher sanctions but some progress is already taking place. For instance, everyone now agrees that they should have listened to the Baltic states' warnings of Russia as a major threat.

To adopt more severe sanctions, countries that are still afraid of Russia should overcome these fears and do everything to stop the Russian war machine.

"The attitude today is in stark contrast to what it was on February 23. Germany, too, is now doing everything to wean its economy off Russian gas," Karins said.

"Sanctions will not stop the war. Ukrainian soldiers with Western weapons will stop the war. The sanctions will undermine Russia's ability to rebuild its military in a short period of time, as they will have other issues to think about," the prime minister said.

The Latvian economy's exposure to Russia is estimated at around 8 percent and the sanctions on Russia are likely to affect the Latvian economy as well, Karins admitted. He is confident, however, that most of the companies that have been doing business with Russia will find new business opportunities and that Latvia's economic growth will not stall because of the sanctions.

41354539333044392D354641322D3433

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220406ei46000dx


EU ban on Russian ships not to leave significant impact on Riga and Liepaja port - port representatives
Ivars Motivāns
374 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日 11:48 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, April 11 (LETA) - The European Union's decision to ban Russian ships from the member states' ports will not leave a significant impact on the Latvian ports of Riga and Liepaja, the ports' representatives told LETA.

Liene Ozola, a spokeswoman for the Freeport of Riga, said that Russian ships have never accounted for a significant share of cargo or vessels at the Riga port, so the EU ban on Russian ships is not expected to affect the port's operations.

Citing data from the Freeport of Riga Authority, Ozola said that in 2021 the port received 77 Russian ships, which is less than 3 percent of the 2,870 vessels handled by the port that year. Of these 77 ships, 68 were dry cargo vessels and nine tankers.

Ozola noted that the percentage of Russian ships had been similar also in previous years.

Liga Ratniece-Kadege, a spokeswoman for Liepaja Special Economic Zone (Liepaja SEZ) told LETA that Russian-flagged ships have never been dominating in the Liepaja port, so the EU decision is not expected to have a significant effect on the port's operations or cargo turnover.

Ratniece-Kadege said that Liepaja SEZ strictly follows and complies with sanction regimes and operates in accordance with the Liepaja SEZ Authority's sanctions risk management regulations and methodology for ship and shipping companies/owners' risk analysis, which means that every ship arriving in the port, as well as its operator and owner are carefully checked against international sanctions lists.

Inga Ievina, a representative of the Freeport of Ventspils, told LETA earlier that Russian ships practically do not visit Ventspils and that last year the port received only six such vessels.

As regards Russian and Belarusian cargo, Ievina said that the port authority does not have information on the amount of cargo that will be affected by the sanctions, but underlined that the port will comply with all restrictions.

Last Friday, April 8, the EU adopted a new package of sanctions against Russia and Belarus, prohibiting Russian and Belarusian truckers from transporting cargo to the EU and denying Russian ships from accessing EU ports.

45393041384136432D344535462D3443

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220411ei4b001b9


Sea ports: ban for Russian ships to enter EU ports will not impact Riga or Liepaja much
LETA
817 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日 13:20 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2022. BNN. All Rights Reserved
According to representatives of sea ports, the ban for Russian ships to enter sea ports of the European Union will not have much of an impact on Riga and Liepaja.

Freeport of Riga public relations officer Liene Ozola mentioned that ships sailing under the Russian flag have never accounted for a significant portion of freight or number of ships entering the port. This means the decision to ban ships sailing under the flag of the Russian Federation from entering European sea ports will not have a major impact on Riga sea port’s operations.

She said that according to data compiled by the Freeport of Riga authority for 2021, a total of 77 ships sailing under the Russian flag entered the port that year. This is almost 3% of 2 870 ships that entered the sea port in 2021. Of those ships 68 were dry cargo ships and nine – tanker ships.

Ozola mentioned that in previous years the percentage of Russian ships entering the port of Riga was similar.

She also mentioned that ships sailing under the Russian flag generally carry different bulk cargo (agricultural freight, wood chips and others), as well as oil products. Russian ships generally carried chemical bulk cargo, peat, lumber, linen seeds and other freight.

Most of the Russian ships serviced at the sea port were small vessels. Those ships generally cruise in the Baltic Sea and Nordic Sea region, explained Ozola.

At the same time, she mentioned that this decision will force ships and their owners to change flags. It may also increase the costs of this segment, because fewer ships will be available on the market. However, this will not apply specifically to Riga sea port.

Liepaja Special Economic Zone (SEZ) representative Līga Ratniece-Kadeģe reports ships sailing under Russian flag have never dominated the sea port. This means the aforementioned decision will not have a major impact on the sea port’s operations and freight turnover.

Read also: Day 47 of war in Ukraine: New mass grave found, Russian provocations possible in Transnistria, hard week expected by Zelenskyy

Ratniece-Kadeģe stressed that Liepaja SEZ authority carefully complies with and follows updates on sanctions and works in accordance with Liepaja SEZ authority’s Sanction Risk Management procedures and methodology for the risk analysis of ships and shipping companies/owners. This means that after receiving a request from a ship to enter Liepaja sea port, information about the ship, its operator and owners undergoes careful evaluation.

The sanctions imposed by the EU, which prohibit ships sailing under the Russian flag, are a decision that will be strictly complied with, said Ratniece-Kadeģe.

She also said in Q1 2022 freight turnover at Liepaja sea port was 2.045 million tonnes, which is significantly more when compared to the first three months of 2021.

Additionally, Ratniece-Kadeģe stressed that since the 90s of the previous century Liepaja sea port has carefully worked on attracting domestic freight and linking operations with city infrastructure. More than 55% of freight handled by Liepaja sea port are domestic freight.

As previously reported, Freeport of Ventspils authority representative Inga Ieviņa said ships sailing under Russian flag do not often come to Ventspils. According to available information, a mere six such ships entered the sea port last year.

As for Russian and Belarusian freight, Ieviņa said the authority of the freeport has no specific information about the volume of freight sanctions apply to, adding that the sea port will definitely comply with all restrictions.

She also referenced what the Minister of Transport previously said – that in the worst case scenario the volume of freight in Ventspils may decrease by two-thirds.

She also stressed it’s impossible to predict any specific level of influence at this time.

On Friday, 8 April, the EU adopted new sanctions against Russia and Belarus. These sanctions prohibit road transport companies from those countries to enter EU member states. Sanctions also ban ships sailing under the flag of the Russian Federation from entering EU sea ports.

Russian and Belarusian road transport companies are not allowed to provide services, transit included, within the EU. In addition, sanctions provide import restrictions for different goods exported from Russia, including coal and other solid fossil fuels.

Latvia and its neighbouring countries are one of the groups that initiated this package of sanctions. Latvian Minister of Transport Tālis Linkaits said he is happy EU member states have managed to agree, stressing that Latvia is prepared to adopt sanctions immediately and introduce restrictions on freight transports from Russia and Belarus by land and sea, as well as shut Latvian sea ports for Russian ships.

The post Sea ports: ban for Russian ships to enter EU ports will not impact Riga or Liepaja much appeared first on Baltic News Network - News from Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020220411ei4b000b5


Latvia supports ICC's investigation of war crimes in Ukraine - Rinkevics
534 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日 15:03 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2022 Baltic News Service
RIGA, Apr 11, BNS - Latvia supports the work of the International Criminal Court (ICC) to investigate war crimes in Ukraine, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics (New Unity) said.

As BNS was told at the Foreign Ministry, Rinkevics on Monday attend a meeting of the European Union 's (EU) Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg, which focused on Russia's war in Ukraine, the EU 's Global Gateway connectivity strategy. EU foreign ministers also met with ICC chief Prosecutor Karim Khan. 

In a meeting with the ICC prosecutor, Rinkevics thanked him on behalf of Latvia for the activities the court had launched to hold Russian officials accountable for the appalling crimes perpetrated in Ukraine.

Latvia fully supports the work of the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in carrying out investigations into alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine and against Ukrainian people, the Latvian minister said. He indicated that the Latvian government has decided to contribute EUR 100,000 in support of the ICC Office of the Prosecutor.

The minister also informed the Council that Latvia’s law enforcement authorities were considering the call of the ICC to nominate experts in various fields of competence. Criminal proceedings have been initiated in Latvia over crimes against humanity, crimes against peace, crimes of aggression, and war crimes. Thus, an investigation group will work to obtain and document evidence of was crimes and crimes against humanity and peace committed in the territory of Ukraine, Rinkevics said. 

The EU Foreign Affairs Council held an exchange of views on the Global Gateway connectivity strategy and the EU member states’ perspective of further steps towards its implementation. Rinkevics noted that the implementation of the already existing connectivity partnerships should be stepped up in order to prevent disruptions in EU supply chains. 

Russia’s war against Ukraine has created a need for adjusting the EU ’s approach to connectivity, the minister pointed out.

Ways must also be sought of how the strategy could help restore Ukraine’s connectivity infrastructure after the war. The strategy must then be viewed in relation to funds and financial instruments that would be envisaged to restore Ukraine’s infrastructure and connectivity. At the same time, the geopolitical interests of member states should be balanced as concerns the allocation of, and planning for EU funding, Rinkevics said.

A sanction pressure on Russia should continue through imposing significant restrictions on its major sources of income, for instance oil trade, the minister noted. The shortcomings of the existing sanctions and the loopholes to evade them must be eliminated. At the same time, it is necessary to make sure all EU member states take a uniform approach to applying the sanctions, Rinkevics said.

International isolation of Russia and Belarus must also continue. At this point, the European Union should focus its assistance on strengthening Ukraine’s resistance capabilities and resilience. By increasing support, we shall improve the position of Ukraine vis à vis Russia’s absurd demands. Ukraine must be supported in documenting evidence against Russia’s war crimes, Rinkevics underlined in the context of Russia’s war against Ukraine.

BNS, +371 67088611, zinas@bns.lv

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020220411ei4b005bp


Latvia supports ICC's investigation of war crimes in Ukraine - Rinkevics
Inese Trenča
529 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日 15:02 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, April 11 (LETA) - Latvia supports the work of the International Criminal Court (ICC) to investigate war crimes in Ukraine, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics (New Unity) said.

As LETA was told at the Foreign Ministry, Rinkevics on Monday attend a meeting of the European Union 's (EU) Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg, which focused on Russia's war in Ukraine, the EU 's Global Gateway connectivity strategy. EU foreign ministers also met with ICC chief Prosecutor Karim Khan.

In a meeting with the ICC prosecutor, Rinkevics thanked him on behalf of Latvia for the activities the court had launched to hold Russian officials accountable for the appalling crimes perpetrated in Ukraine.

Latvia fully supports the work of the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in carrying out investigations into alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine and against Ukrainian people, the Latvian minister said. He indicated that the Latvian government has decided to contribute EUR 100,000 in support of the ICC Office of the Prosecutor.

The minister also informed the Council that Latvia’s law enforcement authorities were considering the call of the ICC to nominate experts in various fields of competence. Criminal proceedings have been initiated in Latvia over crimes against humanity, crimes against peace, crimes of aggression, and war crimes. Thus, an investigation group will work to obtain and document evidence of was crimes and crimes against humanity and peace committed in the territory of Ukraine, Rinkevics said.

The EU Foreign Affairs Council held an exchange of views on the Global Gateway connectivity strategy and the EU member states’ perspective of further steps towards its implementation. Rinkevics noted that the implementation of the already existing connectivity partnerships should be stepped up in order to prevent disruptions in EU supply chains.

Russia’s war against Ukraine has created a need for adjusting the EU ’s approach to connectivity, the minister pointed out.

Ways must also be sought of how the strategy could help restore Ukraine’s connectivity infrastructure after the war. The strategy must then be viewed in relation to funds and financial instruments that would be envisaged to restore Ukraine’s infrastructure and connectivity. At the same time, the geopolitical interests of member states should be balanced as concerns the allocation of, and planning for EU funding, Rinkevics said.

A sanction pressure on Russia should continue through imposing significant restrictions on its major sources of income, for instance oil trade, the minister noted. The shortcomings of the existing sanctions and the loopholes to evade them must be eliminated. At the same time, it is necessary to make sure all EU member states take a uniform approach to applying the sanctions, Rinkevics said.

International isolation of Russia and Belarus must also continue. At this point, the European Union should focus its assistance on strengthening Ukraine’s resistance capabilities and resilience. By increasing support, we shall improve the position of Ukraine vis à vis Russia’s absurd demands. Ukraine must be supported in documenting evidence against Russia’s war crimes, Rinkevics underlined in the context of Russia’s war against Ukraine.

36343841374442422D304635342D3439

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220411ei4b0025t


LATVIA: BAN FOR RUSSIAN SHIPS TO ENTER EU PORTS NOT TO IMPACT RIGA OR LIEPAJA MUCH
742 字
2022 年 4 月 12 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2022. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
According to representatives of seaports, the ban for Russian ships to enter seaports of the European Union will not have much of an impact on Riga and Liepaja.

Freeport of Riga public relations officer Liene Ozola mentioned that ships sailing under the Russian flag had never accounted for a significant portion of freight or number of ships entering the port. This means the decision to ban ships sailing under the flag of the Russian Federation from entering European sea ports will not have a major impact on Riga seaport's operations.

She said that according to data compiled by the Freeport of Riga authority for 2021, a total of 77 ships sailing under the Russian flag entered the port that year. This is almost 3% of 2,870 ships that entered the seaport in 2021. Of those ships 68 were dry cargo ships and nine - tanker ships.

Ozola mentioned that in previous years the percentage of Russian ships entering the port of Riga was similar.

She also mentioned that ships sailing under the Russian flag generally carried different bulk cargo (agricultural freight, wood chips and others), as well as oil products. Russian ships generally carried chemical bulk cargo, peat, lumber, linen seeds and other freight.

Most of the Russian ships serviced at the seaport were small vessels. Those ships generally cruise in the Baltic Sea and Nordic Sea region, explained Ozola.

At the same time, she mentioned that this decision would force ships and their owners to change flags. It may also increase the costs of this segment, because fewer ships will be available on the market. However, this will not apply specifically to Riga seaport.

Liepaja Special Economic Zone (SEZ) representative Liga Ratniece-Kadege reports ships sailing under Russian flag have never dominated the seaport. This means the aforementioned decision will not have a major impact on the seaport's operations and freight turnover.

Ratniece-Kadege stressed that Liepaja SEZ authority carefully complied with and followed updates on sanctions and worked in accordance with Liepaja SEZ authority's Sanction Risk Management procedures and methodology for the risk analysis of ships and shipping companies/owners. This means that after receiving a request from a ship to enter Liepaja seaport, information about the ship, its operator and owners undergoes careful evaluation.

The sanctions imposed by the EU, which prohibit ships sailing under the Russian flag, are a decision that will be strictly complied with, said Ratniece-Kadege.

She also said in Q1 freight turnover at Liepaja seaport was 2.045 million tons, significantly more when compared to the first three months of 2021.

Additionally, Ratniece-Kadege stressed that since the 1990s Liepaja seaport had carefully worked on attracting domestic freight and linking operations with city infrastructure. More than 55% of freight handled by Liepaja seaport are domestic freight.

Freeport of Ventspils authority representative Inga Ievina said ships sailing under Russian flag did not often come to Ventspils. According to available information, a mere six such ships entered the seaport last year.

As for Russian and Belarusian freight, Ievina said the authority of the freeport had no specific information about the volume of freight sanctions applied to, adding that the seaport would definitely comply with all restrictions.

She also referenced what the Minister of Transport previously said - that in the worst case scenario the volume of freight in Ventspils might decrease by two-thirds.

She also stressed it was impossible to predict any specific level of influence at this time.

On April 8, the EU adopted new sanctions against Russia and Belarus. These sanctions prohibit road transport companies from those countries to enter EU member states. Sanctions also ban ships sailing under the flag of the Russian Federation from entering EU seaports.

Russian and Belarusian road transport companies are not allowed to provide services, transit included, within the EU. In addition, sanctions provide import restrictions for different goods exported from Russia, including coal and other solid fossil fuels.

Latvia and its neighbouring countries are one of the groups that have initiated this package of sanctions. Latvian Minister of Transport Talis Linkaits said he was happy EU member states had managed to agree, stressing that Latvia was prepared to adopt sanctions immediately and introduce restrictions on freight transports from Russia and Belarus by land and sea, as well as shut Latvian seaports for Russian ships. (BNN/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020220412ei4c00035


Despite Latvian PM’s claim on ‘no’ more Russian gas, country’s gas market operator signs new contract with Gazprom
440 字
2022 年 4 月 13 日 05:58 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Despite the Latvian PM’s affirmation that the country’s four-party ruling coalition is united on no more Russian gas, Latvia’s gas market operator, JSC Latvijas Gaze, reportedly announced it has entered into a valid long-term agreement on the supply of natural gas until 2030 with Russia’s Gazprom.

According to the changes in the legislation of the Russian Federation, starting from April 1, 2022, settlements for natural gas supplies made after April 1, 2022 in accordance with the foreign trade agreements of PJSC Gazprom for the supply of natural gas abroad (to a number of countries) shall be made only in Russian rubles.

Assessing the compliance of the said change of the settlement procedure with the previously established sanction regime, the first impression is that such settlement procedure – in Russian rubles – does not formally violate the sanction regime and is possible, Latvijas Gaze has said.

Latvijas Gaze chairman of the board Aigars Kalvitiss said: “we would like to emphasise that the amount of natural gas reserves of JSC Latvijas Gaze in the natural gas storage facility is sufficient to fulfil its contractual obligations to households and other customers by supplying the natural gas pumped into the storage facility. The decision not to pump gas through pipelines in April was taken in view of the historically high natural gas prices in April, which would lead to disproportionately high natural gas sales prices to our customers and make such offers uncompetitive.”

As reported by bne IntelliNews, Latvian PM Krisjanis Karins’s claims that the country’s four-party ruling coalition is united on no more Russian gas.

“There is a consensus among the ruling coalition that Latvia should give up supplies of Russian natural gas as soon as possible,” he was quoted as saying by LSM's Latvian language service.

Speaking after the regular coalition meeting on April 4, Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins said that Latvia will give up the supply of Russian natural gas regardless of what other countries and the European Union decide on the matter.

Following Russian atrocities in Ukraine, pressure is building for a full EU embargo on Russian gas supplies, though some countries remain reluctant to affect their economies for the sake of a principled stand.

The Latvian Ministry of Economics (MoE) responsible for the energy sector has been instructed to draw up a report with solutions on how Latvia could refuse supplies of Russian natural gas.

As reported by bne IntelliNews, Lithuania has already made a decision to completely abandon Russian gas supplies.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020220413ei4d000dx


66% of people in Latvia back sanctions on Russia - poll
Inese Trenča
338 字
2022 年 4 月 14 日 08:08 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, April 14 (LETA) - In Latvia, 66 percent of the polled residents support the economic sanctions imposed on Russia for its war on Ukraine, according to an SKDS survey commissioned by the Society Integration Foundation (SIF).

As SIF representative Zane Jekabsone told LETA, 52 percent of respondents in the poll support the sanctions regardless of how much the sanctions might affect their own prosperity. Meanwhile, 27 percent of people in Latvia are against the sanctions.

Of those who support the sanctions on Russia following the invasion of Ukraine, three percent support them on the condition that they do not increase their monthly expenditures by more than EUR 200, four percent back the sanctions if they do not increase their monthly expenditures by more than EUR 100, and seven percent back the sanctions if they do not increase their monthly expenditures by more than EUR 50. Another 7 percent had difficulties answering the question.

According to the SIF representatives, most often, sanction supporters are young people, those who speak Latvian in their families, respondents with higher income levels and respondents that do not support the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Zaiga Puce, head of the SIF secretariat, noted that more than half of Latvia's population are ready to show their solidarity with Ukraine and support for democratic values not only in words but also by making material sacrifices. Moreover, in its support for Ukraine society demonstrates true unity and is ready to back the sanctions event if they will have material consequences for them.

Puce believes that this can be explained by empathy, historical ties and awareness of the war going on almost next door. Around 35 percent of people in Latvia have a friend, acquaintance or a relative in Ukraine currently experiencing the horrors of war or fleeing the country as a refugee, Puce said.

SKDS research center conducted the survey from March 17 to 21, polling permanent residents of Latvia aged 18 to 75.

37363544313637312D313444312D3445

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220414ei4e000gp


NEWS
Biden commits another $800M in aid
554 字
2022 年 4 月 14 日
USA Today
USAT
A.2
ISSN:07347456
英文
© 2022 USA Today. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.
President Joe Biden spoke by phone with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy for almost an hour Wednesday, a day after Zelenskyy praised Biden for accusing Russia's Vladimir Putin of genocide.

Biden said in a statement that he has authorized an additional $800 million in security assistance to Ukraine, including weapons and ammunition.

"The Ukrainian military has used the weapons we are providing to devastating effect," Biden said. "As Russia prepares to intensify its attack in the Donbas region, the United States will continue to provide Ukraine with the capabilities to defend itself."

Zelenskyy tweeted about their discussion, saying: "Continued constant dialogue with @POTUS. Assessed Russian war crimes. Discussed additional package of defensive and possible macro-financial aid. Agreed to enhance sanctions."

Also Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned that China and other nations declining to sanction Russia could face future economic fallout for failing to help end Russia's "heinous war" in Ukraine.

Ukrainians willing to help Russia retrieve bodies

Authorities in the east-central Ukraine city of Dnipro say they are willing to help return to Russia the bodies of more than 1,500 Russian soldiers now in city morgues.

"We already have four refrigerators full of bodies of Russian soldiers," Deputy Mayor Mykhailo Lysenko said. "No matter what, these are someone's children."

The city's airport and some infrastructure were destroyed by rocket attacks just days ago. Military analysts say Russia's new focus on eastern Ukraine could include Dnipro, a city of 1 million people in the Donbas region, where Russian separatists have battled Ukraine troops since 2014.

WHO chief urges world

to remember Black lives

The head of the World Health Organization slammed the global community Wednesday for turning a blind eye on crises outside Ukraine. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus questioned whether "the world really gives equal attention to Black and white lives," citing dire issues of war, disease and famine in countries such as Ethiopia, Yemen, Afghanistan and Syria. He said the Horn of Africa nations are at high risk of famine and many people are "already starving or food insecure and increasingly on the move."

"I need to be blunt and honest that the world is not treating the human race the same way," he said. "Some are more equal than others."

Polish, Baltic leaders travel to show support

The presidents of Poland and the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia were in Ukraine on Wednesday to show their support in talks with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia were part of the Soviet Union for half a century.

Now the Baltic nations fear they could be the next targets of Russia's belligerence. Together they total only about 6 million people compared with Ukraine's 44 million. The Baltics have one advantage Ukraine did not – they are NATO members. NATO leaders have made it clear the alliance would defend all its members from Russian aggression.

Latest developments

Cyprus said it is moving to revoke citizenship for four Russians and 17 of their family members included among those sanctioned by the European Union.

Russia has forcibly deported more than 500,000 Ukrainians to the Russian Federation, Zelenskyy said.

Contributing: John Bacon, Tom Vanden Brook, Jorge L. Ortiz and Celina Tebor, USA TODAY; The Associated Press

USA Today Information Network

文件 USAT000020220414ei4e00030


Latvia adopts legislation opening path to revoking citizenship for war crime advocates
534 字
2022 年 4 月 21 日 11:52 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire
DAIBN
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
RIGA. April 21 (Interfax/BNS) - Latvia's parliament, the Saeima, has passed amendments to the law on citizenship to provide legal grounds for depriving people supporting war crimes of Latvian citizenship.

The amendments were proposed by the Justice Ministry and adjusted by the parliamentary Defense, Internal Affairs, and Corruption Prevention Committees.

The legislation provides for revoking citizenship from persons providing substantial financial, material, propagandistic, technological, or other support to a state or persons responsible for such actions as genocide, crimes against peace, crimes against humanity, or war crimes endangering the territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence of a democratic country or its constitutional system.

The legislation also provides for revoking Latvian citizenship from a person responsible for these deeds as such. However, a person cannot be deprived of citizenship if this is their only citizenship.

National security agencies would be tasked with providing information proving that a given individual committed any of the abovementioned deeds. An appeal against the citizenship deprivation procedure shall not suspend its enforcement.

Owing to this legislation, the Latvian government, in particular, would have legal grounds to revoke the citizenship of Russian billionaire Petr Aven.

Latvian media have reported earlier that Aven obtained Latvian citizenship via the facilitation of some members of Latvian economic groups. Latvian Justice Minister Janis Bordans said his ministry was exploring options for depriving Aven of his Latvian citizenship. Interior Minister Marija Golubeva said she was scrutinizing legal aspects of the Russian businessman's citizenship.

According to the Firmas.lv web portal, Aven is a beneficiary of the charity foundations Paaudze (Generation) and Aven Foundation, both registered in Riga.

The Latvian Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau (KNAB) questioned Aven in 2020 on suspicion of bribing Vilnis Jekabsons, former chief of the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs (OCMA), but did not collect enough evidence.

The KNAB had opened a criminal case in 2019 on suspicion that Jekabsons had received a 10,000-euro bribe to facilitate the granting of Latvian citizenship to Aven.

Aven acquired Latvian citizenship on the grounds that his ancestors had lived in Latvia before 1941. However, to acquire citizenship, he had also to pass a language test. In its resolution on dropping the criminal case for a lack of evidence, the KNAB indicated that Aven took a language test for the first time in November 2015 but did not pass it, as the commission concluded his knowledge was inadequate and his answers in the Latvian language were not even understandable. Aven eventually passed a language test several months later.

As was implied in the Nega Personiga (Nothing Personal) TV show, in their conversation recorded by the KNAB, businessman and politician Edgars Jaunups and businessman Guntis Ravis discussed bribing Jekabsons with 10,000 euros after Aven failed his first language test.

After Russia started its special operation, Aven was included in European Union and United Kingdom sanction lists, which prompted him to step down as a member of the Alfa Bank board of directors and the board of directors of the Jewish charity foundation Genesis Philanthropy Group.

Va ra aa

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DAIBN00020220421ei4l004ph


As long as evil is not defeated we have no right to become weary or indifferent – PM
Karolis Broga
444 字
2022 年 4 月 22 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
(c) 2022 Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On Friday, after a meeting with Latvian and Estonian prime ministers in Riga, Latvia, Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė stressed that European Union member states must continue building up pressure on the Kremlin by expanding sanctions and imposing an embargo on Russian energy resources.

"The true face of 'Russkiy Mir' [the Russian world] is mass burials (&), destroyed homes and charred ruins. The fight between good and evil is happening in Ukraine. The fight between tyranny and freedom. The fight for how the future of the world, and especially Europe, will look like. Therefore, this is also the fight of every one of us. Thus, as long as evil has not been defeated, we have no right to become weary or indifferent because both weariness and indifference are the best allies of the aggressor," Šimonytė said at the joint press conference.

The head of Government emphasised the importance of increasing pressure on the Kremlin, expanding sanctions and agreeing on the EU level to sanction the energy sector, to freeze all Russian and Belarusian bank assets and cut off banks from the SWIFT interbank payment system. She added that the activities of Russian propaganda channels and other resources used by Russia for spying in the EU must be completely eliminated.

Furthermore, the prime minister said if 27 EU member states agree to adopt the sixth package of sanctions on Russia and stop buying Russian oil and gas, this would significantly limit the Kremlin's ability to continue funding the war in Ukraine. According to her, discussions on the issue are ongoing in the EU but are not easy as it is a sensitive topic and a decision would be adopted only if all 27 countries agree on the matter.

"Now the Russian Central Bank and other institutions are devoting great effort to save face and pretend that the current sanctions are not very effective, but this is not true. Of course, more time is needed for them to permeate into all areas of life," stressed the prime minister.

On Friday, in Latvia, Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė met with Prime Minister of Latvia Krišjānis Kariņš and Prime Minister of Estonia Kaja Kallas. The meeting was held in the format of the Baltic Council of Ministers (Council of Prime Ministers).

The heads of Government discussed joint efforts towards greater security in the Baltic region amid Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, the upcoming NATO Summit in Madrid, weaning off Russia's energy supplies, tightening sanctions on Russia, and Baltic support for Ukraine.

Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA

文件 ELTA000020220422ei4m0012x


Baltics see sanctions on Russian gas, oil as key element in next package – Lithuanian PM 
LETA
278 字
2022 年 4 月 22 日 13:04 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
VILNIUS, April 22 (LETA--BNS) – Discussions on sanctions on Russian gas and oil are not easy, but all three Baltic countries have agreed that this must be a key element of the bloc's next sanction package, Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte said on Friday.

"We believe that this is a key element of the future sanction package, but it has to be agreed on, so that these sanctions are implemented," she said at a joint press conference with her Latvian and Estonian counterparts.

Simonyte noted that an embargo on Russian gas and oil would have a significant impact on its economy.

"It is not a very big secret that the Russian economy and the Kremlin regime are extremely dependent on the flow [of money] they receive for raw materials and, above all, for energy resources – oil and gas," the Lithuanian prime minister said.

"Any reduction or disappearance of this source of funding would therefore have a very significant impact on Russia's economy and its ability to continue to finance the war," she added.

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said that the approval of all EU countries is needed for such an embargo, which requires convincing the states that are still heavily dependent on Russia's energy resources.

Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins believes that tougher sanctions against Russia should have been introduced earlier.

"We are working and will continue to work with our partners toward our goal of isolating the Russian economy so that they have as little money as possible to finance their ruthless war machine," he said.

32323638444138392D354534362D3437

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220422ei4m002p9


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10401
Karolis Broga
4224 字
2022 年 4 月 22 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
(c) 2022 Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
NO. 10401 (94807) FRIDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL 22

 

WE MUST ACT DECISIVELY AND QUICKLY ON UKRAINE, NAUSĖDA TELLS GERMANY'S BAERBOCK

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On Friday, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nausėda met with German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock. The meeting focused on boosting forces in the eastern flank of NATO, military assistance to Ukraine, EU candidate status for Ukraine, and sanctions against Russia and Belarus, the presidency said.

The president pointed out that NATO’s eastern flank should be further reinforced by expanding NATO’s enhanced forward presence battalion to a brigade-sized unit, upgrading air policing to air and missile defence, switching from forward presence to forward defence, and strengthening the Suwałki Corridor.

Nausėda thanked Germany for leading NATO forward presence battlegroup in Lithuania and for its contribution to the security of the Baltic region, and expressed his expectation that more German troops will be deployed to Lithuania in the near future.

During his meeting with Annalena Baerbock, the president stressed that political and military support by European and world democracies is crucial for Ukraine at this time.

"With the outbreak of a large-scale military offensive in the Donbas region, rapid and effective delivery of weaponry to Ukraine could become a decisive factor in this war. We no longer have time to hesitate, we must act decisively and quickly,” he said.

The president also underlined that pressure by Western countries on Russia must be further increased by tightening sanctions in energy, finance, trade, and other sectors. According to the president, sanctions should also be imposed on Belarus, which is participating as a party to Russia’s war against Ukraine and allows the aggressor to deploy its troops in its territory.

The leader of Lithuania and the German foreign minister also discussed the prospects for Ukraine’s European integration. According to Nausėda, following Ukraine’s completion of the EU accession questionnaire this week, it is necessary to speed up the process of granting Ukraine EU candidate status.

 

NAUSĖDA AND COMMISSIONER SINKEVIČIUS DISCUSS EU ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On Friday, President Gitanas Nausėda met with Virginijus Sinkevičius, Member of the European Commission for Environment, Oceans and Fisheries. The meeting focused on the EU's energy security and independence from Russia, support for Ukraine and accelerating the process of its European integration, said the Office of the President.

The president expressed his support to the European Commission's proposals to assess the possibility of joint EU gas purchases, thus ensuring that the EU is properly prepared for winter with sufficient natural gas in storage facilities. According to the president, Lithuania's developed gas infrastructure and LNG terminal are the result of its long-term strategic energy policy, which makes us energy independent from Russia. Nevertheless, the synchronisation of the electricity grid with continental Europe remains an immediate priority for Lithuania.

"Given the current security situation, all necessary measures must be taken to speed up the synchronisation. We need to ensure that the Baltic grids are connected to the European grids as soon as possible," the president said.

The president and the commissioner also discussed the issue of accelerating the process of granting EU candidate status to Ukraine. According to Gitanas Nausėda, such a political sign of support would be very important for Ukraine.

The president also welcomed the EC-proposed idea to set up the Solidarity Fund.

"The reconstruction of Ukraine will require not only seeking opportunities to finance projects under existing programmes, but also additional funding. We need to find ways to use the frozen funds and assets of the Russian oligarchs for this purpose," the president said.

 

LITHUANIAN PARLT SPEAKER CALLS FOR HUMANITARIAN CORRIDOR IN MARIUPOL

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – In a statement issued on Friday, Speaker of the Seimas of Lithuania Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen said that on the holy days of the Orthodox Easter all her thoughts are with the Ukrainian people and, more than ever before, with the Ukrainians trapped in Mariupol, stated the Office of the Seimas.

"The principles of international law, fundamentals of humane treatment and Christian compassion call for offering the people in Mariupol the opportunity of leaving the destroyed city in safety. A humanitarian corridor must be set up as soon as possible to allow for the safe passage of civilians and the injured from Mariupol. In the interests of security and transparency, the entire process from leaving Mariupol up to the arrival on the territory under Ukrainian control should be overseen by a designed international mission set up for the purpose," the statement of the parliament speaker reads.

"I appeal to the leaders of parliaments of other European Union Member States and good will countries urging them to call for the immediate establishment of a humanitarian corridor from Mariupol and for political steps to be taken to implement it. I fervently hope that these calls will also be heard by the Government of the Russian Federation. Offering real hope is the greatest gift we can give to the suffering people on the Holiday of the Resurrection," said Čmilytė-Nielsen.

 

AS LONG AS EVIL IS NOT DEFEATED WE HAVE NO RIGHT TO BECOME WEARY OR INDIFFERENT – PM

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On Friday, after a meeting with Latvian and Estonian prime ministers in Riga, Latvia, Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė stressed that European Union member states must continue building up pressure on the Kremlin by expanding sanctions and imposing an embargo on Russian energy resources.

"The true face of 'Russkiy Mir' [the Russian world] is mass burials (&), destroyed homes and charred ruins. The fight between good and evil is happening in Ukraine. The fight between tyranny and freedom. The fight for how the future of the world, and especially Europe, will look like. Therefore, this is also the fight of every one of us. Thus, as long as evil has not been defeated, we have no right to become weary or indifferent because both weariness and indifference are the best allies of the aggressor," Šimonytė said at the joint press conference.

The head of Government emphasised the importance of increasing pressure on the Kremlin, expanding sanctions and agreeing on the EU level to sanction the energy sector, to freeze all Russian and Belarusian bank assets and cut off banks from the SWIFT interbank payment system. She added that the activities of Russian propaganda channels and other resources used by Russia for spying in the EU must be completely eliminated.

Furthermore, the prime minister said if 27 EU member states agree to adopt the sixth package of sanctions on Russia and stop buying Russian oil and gas, this would significantly limit the Kremlin's ability to continue funding the war in Ukraine. According to her, discussions on the issue are ongoing in the EU but are not easy as it is a sensitive topic and a decision would be adopted only if all 27 countries agree on the matter.

"Now the Russian Central Bank and other institutions are devoting great effort to save face and pretend that the current sanctions are not very effective, but this is not true. Of course, more time is needed for them to permeate into all areas of life," stressed the prime minister.

On Friday, in Latvia, Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė met with Prime Minister of Latvia Krišjānis Kariņš and Prime Minister of Estonia Kaja Kallas. The meeting was held in the format of the Baltic Council of Ministers (Council of Prime Ministers).

The heads of Government discussed joint efforts towards greater security in the Baltic region amid Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, the upcoming NATO Summit in Madrid, weaning off Russia's energy supplies, tightening sanctions on Russia, and Baltic support for Ukraine.

 

LITHUANIAN PM STRESSES IMPORTANCE OF LNG TERMINAL IN KLAIPĖDA FOR ENERGY SECURITY OF BALTIC STATES

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On Friday, after a meeting with the heads of Government of Latvia and Estonia in Riga, Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė said that Lithuania's decision to implement the liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal project was one of the most far-sighted decisions made by the Lithuanian Government.

According to her, decisions adopted by the Government in 2009-2010 allowed Lithuania to minimise dependence on Russian gas and prevented Russian natural gas supplier Gazprom from manipulating the Lithuanian gas market.

"If until now the terminal served mostly as a factor balancing gas prices and preventing the monopolist from pressuring Lithuanian, Latvian and Estonian consumers, now it has an entirely different component for the security of the entire region," said Prime Minister Šimonytė.

According to the head of Government, countries should not be viewed separately when energy independence is considered. Instead, possibilities of the entire region to phase out Russian gas should be explored.

"It must be stressed that it is very important to coordinate strategies and investments so we would see a wider picture," said Šimonytė.

The PM added she does not envision a risk that the LNG terminal would become redundant, especially if the EU makes long-term and sustainable steps to eliminate Russian gas.

As reported, in April, Lithuania became the first EU country to stop importing Russian gas

On 22 April, Latvian, Estonian and Lithuanian prime ministers met in Riga in the format of the Baltic Council of Ministers (Council of Prime Ministers).

They discussed joint efforts towards greater security in the Baltic region amid Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, the upcoming NATO Summit in Madrid, weaning off Russia's energy supplies, tightening sanctions on Russia, and Baltic support for Ukraine.

 

PROMISES TO DEFEND EVERY INCH OF BALTICS REQUIRE PRACTICAL PREPARATION - LITHUANIA'S FORMIN

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – Lithuania's Foreign Affairs Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis says that NATO's promise to defend every inch of the Baltic States requires a lot of practical preparation which must begin right now.

"We have heard many times the phrase that not a single inch would be left undefended in the Baltic States or Lithuania. But in reality it requires a lot of practical preparation (&) it must begin right now. Even if some partners tell us that they will not be able to help us get prepared in the next few days or months, our plea remains the following: let's start preparing," he said at a press conference after his meeting with German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock.

Minister Landsbergis underlies that Lithuania's security first and foremost requires increased military capabilities on land.

"The first thing we need is additional troops on land. We are grateful to Germany for its extra troops who have been deployed here after Russia's war against Ukraine started. Yet, it is obvious that a larger force is required to truly defend every inch of the country. We are talking about an increase from battalion to brigade of permanently deployed troops in Lithuania", Landsbergis said.

However, the foreign minister points out that soldiers cannot defend the entire territory of the country. So, Lithuania needs additional weapons. Landsbergis added that Lithuania's security also requires maritime defence. Therefore, according to him, the potential accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO would significantly change the security situation in the Baltic Sea region.

 

GERMANY IS ESSENTIALLY READY TO CONTRIBUTE TO NATO BRIGADE IN LITHUANIA - BAERBOCK

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – During her visit to Vilnius this Friday, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said that Berlin was ready to contribute to the establishment of an allied brigade in Lithuania to replace the existing battalion, if the need arises and other NATO members approve.

"We are one hundred percent in solidarity as members of NATO and we will provide air defence and reinforcement of ground forces in all Baltic States (&) if NATO decides to increase the forces to the brigade level, we will of course make a substantial contribution as the lead nation. We will be working on this in the coming weeks", Baerbock told reporters after a meeting with Lithuania's Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis.

According to the German minister, all NATO members must work together on a new defence concept.

"Presently, we are discussing a new defence concept with our NATO partners. It is important that we act decisively as the Alliance rather than as individual foreign ministers. It is important to be together in this process", the minister added.

 

LITHUANIAN GOVT INVITES TO CELEBRATE VYSHYVANKA DAY

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – Every third Thursday in May, Ukrainians and their friends all over the world dress up with traditionally embroidered outfit to celebrate the Vyshyvanka Day, which falls on 19 May this year.

Lithuanians are also invited to join this celebration so as to honour the traditions of Ukraine fighting against Russia’s military aggression and to show solidarity with our own Ukrainian community, many of which are war refugees, said the press service of the Lithuanian Government.

"May the unity blossom in the colours of vyshyvanka on the 19th of May! Put on a traditional Ukrainian vyshyvanka to go to work, university or anywhere else so as to spread the message of support for Ukraine," the Government's meessage reads.

Vyshyvanka is a traditional shirt or blouse, worn by men and women alike, embroidered with ethnic patterns, which oftentimes differ from region to region in Ukraine. Although similar ornaments can also be found in other Slavic regions, the Ukrainian vyshyvanka stands out for its unique embroidery features, telling us the story of a family or a region.

As an ever-present part of the Ukrainian national identity, vyshyvanka gained a particular symbolic meaning back in 2014 during the Maidan uprising and, later, Russia’s war against Ukraine.

The geometric embroidery is believed to have miraculous powers to mobilise, protect, and give strength so needed in the fight for freedom. Vyshyvanka also serves as a symbol of unity: the Vyshyvanka Day is celebrated in Canada, the United States, and many other countries with large Ukrainian communities.

 

LITHUANIA PROVIDES EUR 10MN GUARANTEE THROUGH WORLD BANK FOR SUPPORT TO UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – Attending the World Bank's (WB) ministerial discussion for support to Ukraine in Washington this Friday, Lithuania's Finance Minister Gintarė Skaistė announced that Lithuania would provide a EUR 10 million guarantee to Ukraine through WB instruments.

The money will contribute to the WB's instrument PEACE in Ukraine - Public Expenditures for Administrative Capacity Endurance in Ukraine.

"Lithuania will support Ukraine by providing an additional EUR 10 million guarantee to the World Bank. The unique feature of the guarantee is that the money will be earmarked to fund Ukraine's budgetary needs during the war, in particular, salaries of public sector employees, including teachers. There is a critical need at the moment for quick and effective assistance to Ukraine, and Lithuania's guarantee will contribute to sustaining the viability of the country's public sector," said Minister Skaistė.

At the WB event this Friday, the minister also underlined the need to mobilise large-scale financial assistance to Ukraine in order to get prepared for the country's post-war reconstruction, and to ensure international coordination of support.

 

ON THURSDAY, VSAT PREVENTED 18 MIGRANTS FROM ENTERING LITHUANIA ILLEGALLY

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – This Thursday, 21 April, Lithuanian border guards (VSAT) prevented 18 attempts by migrants to access Lithuania illegally from Belarus.

Latvian border guards turned around 2 illegal migrants from Belarus, whereas 10 illegal migrants tried to cross from Belarus into Poland this Thursday.

Lithuania has stepped up the protection of the EU's external border due to a wave of illegal migration from Belarus.

So far in 2022, the State Border Guard Service of Lithuania prevented 1,372 migrants from illegally crossing into the country from Belarus. The figure stands at 2,605 in Latvia and 3,882 in Poland.

In 2021, since 3 August, when the VSAT was first authorised to prevent illegal border crossing attempts, until the end of the year, 8,106 illegal migrants were turned around.

 

CORONAVIRUS IN LITHUANIA: 1,154 CASES, 5 DEATHS ON THURSDAY

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 21 April, Thursday, a total of 1,154 cases of COVID-19 were confirmed in Lithuania, while 5 patients died.

A total of 160 residents who were diagnosed yesterday have contracted the virus for the second or third time, while 994 cases are first-time infections.

At the moment, a total of 15,901 people in Lithuania are ill with COVID-19.

Data published by Statistics Lithuania indicates that the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the country has increased to 1,053,448 since the outbreak of the pandemic.

The death toll due to COVID-19 has reached 9,046 since the outbreak of the pandemic as 5 patients died this Thursday. They were aged 60-99, and one of them was not vaccinated.

The average number of new daily cases in the last 7 days is 839. The incidence rate per 100,000 residents in the last 14 days is 514. The positive test rate in the last 7 days stands at 19%.

Yesterday, 84 residents received the first vaccine dose, 129 were jabbed the second time and 301 were given the booster shot.

On 21 April, 72 people were hospitalised due to COVID-19 and now 591 hospital beds are occupied by coronavirus patients. Yesterday, 40 patients were being treated in intensive care units (critical limit – 240 ICU beds).

On Thursday, a total of 5,582 molecular PCR tests, 828 antigen tests and 149 antibody tests were performed. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 6,512,035 molecular PCR tests have been carried out.

 

LAST YEAR, ALMOST TWICE AMOUNT OF DATA OPENED TO PUBLIC IN LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – The number of the sets of data opened during the year has almost doubled, and the number of those, who are interested in data that have been opened, increased 5 times. This is shown by 2021 review of progress in the opening of public sector data, prepared by the Information Society Development Committee, reports Lithuania's Ministry of Economy and Innovation.

"These trends are encouraging. They show a growing need for open data. This year, we hope to further activate the data opening process itself and to open at least 500 data sets, including high value data, which can become the basis for new products and technologies. Therefore, we look forward to smooth cooperation in this process on the part of all public sector bodies," says Minister of Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė.

According to the review data, since 2020, the amount of data, that were opened on the Lithuania's Open Data Portal (ADP), increased by 94%, and this, in turn, increased almost 5 times the number of users interested in open data. In 2021, compared to 2020, the number of reviews of data sets increased 20 times - they were reviewed nearly 140,000 times and nearly 11,000 times they were downloaded for use.

Data of the Register of Addresses and of the Register of Legal Entities, that were opened by the Centre of Registers, are among the most valuable data. The portal also receives the highest number of visitor queries for this data.

Last year, the categories of economic activity and business and of economics and finance were supplemented by the biggest amount of open data - 52 and 50 sets respectively. The environmental category was supplemented by 25 sets, the category of public administration, public administration - by 21 sets, the category of transport and communications - by 18 sets, the health care category - by 15 sets, the social security category - by 9 sets, the category of education - by 4 sets.

"The public sector has huge data resources at its disposal. They have great commercial potential. It is only necessary to be able to use these data resources wisely in developing various new technological solutions. It is delighting that already almost half of the data on the portal have been opened at a level of maturity, which is greater than 3. This means that these data are of high quality, and they can be reused more easily in developing new products, services or innovative solutions," says Deputy Minister of Economy and Innovation Eglė Markevičiūtė.

This year there are plans to open cadastral data of Georeferenced base. The vector map data, which are stored on this platform, can be extremely widely used in all areas where a map is required. This year, meteorological data should also be presented on the Lithuania's Open Data Portal. Such data would be particularly useful for farmers, and they would also make it possible to provide more accurate information on weather conditions.

In addition, ways will be sought this year on how to open at least part of the data sets for goods and services - business representatives and the general public could download data on manufacturers and service providers, parameters of goods and services, the environmental friendliness of the product, etc. In the future, data sets for immovable property also will be available. They would be extremely valuable in planning to buy immovable property, to check the boundaries of privately owned plots of land, also in planning business activities given the land use and purpose.

The Lithuania's Open Data Portal was developed and launched in summer 2020. The portal enables business representatives and the general public to conveniently receive and use, in line with a one-stop-shop principle, data processed by the public sector. Data sets, published by the authorities, are processed here, and they are opened centrally via the State Data Governance Information System, which is managed by the Lithuanian Department of Statistics. In this system, data are depersonalised, verified and, as required, are combined into meaningful additional open data sets.

It is estimated that rational use of the data can additionally generate 2% of national GDP.

 

LITHUANIA'S NRD CYBER SECURITY REVENUE GREW 66% IN 2021

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – Cybersecurity consulting and technology development company NRD Cyber Security reported revenue of EUR 5.37 million in 2021, an increase of 66% compared to 2020 revenue of EUR 3.23 million.

According to the audited data, NRD Cyber Security also generated a net profit of EUR 603,000 last year, an increase of 88% compared to EUR 321,000 in the same reporting period in 2020. Also operating in this area is NRD Bangladesh Ltd, control of which NRD Cyber Security assumed at the end of 2021, said NRD Cyber Security.

NRD Cyber Security has successfully continued to work on various international projects as well as sign new contracts. The company has not only completed establishing Cybersecurity Incident Response Team (CSIRT) for the Central Bank of Egypt, but also deployed a threat monitoring platform CollectiveSight, which has been developed by NRD Cyber Security key engineers and will enable the bank centrally to monitor and detect cyber threats. For the Central Bank of Nigeria NRD Cyber Security has created an integrated cybersecurity centre for the financial sector as well as deployed a system which deals with cybersecurity threats, information processing and dissemination.

Sales revenue in Lithuanian market grew by 80% during 2021, showcasing not only the growing demand for cybersecurity products and services in the country, but also organisational capabilities to utilise the upcoming opportunities. The organisation has strengthened its position in security as a service provider category. CyberSOC is provided to organisations of various scope, size, and nature – banks, manufacturers, international organisations, and public sector institutions.

NRD Cyber Security's total investment in research and experimental development (R&D) at the end of 2021 amounted to EUR 3 million, of which EUR 1.7 million was financed by the European Union, with the remaining amount coming from the company's own funds. In 2021 alone, EUR 1.2 million was allocated for this purpose, of which EUR 700,000 was European Union funding and the remainder the company's own funds.

One of its R&D products, CollectiveSight, is a centralised cybersecurity monitoring and threat hunting platform. The platform is intended to be deployed in sectorial or national critical infrastructures, set-up for central management and incident handling as well as threat hunting from sectorial or national CSIRT.

The platform has already been successfully commercialised – it has been deployed in the Central Bank of Egypt and in the critical information infrastructure of Bangladesh and some EU countries.

Another significant NRD Cyber Security product is CyberSet. The product is aimed for small IT service providers around the world wishing to provide managed security services. CyberSet is a set of automated processes integrating typical security operational functions. This product will significantly lower the entry threshold for new Managed Security Service Providers (MSSPs) into different national markets, allowing them to start as MSSPs in a short period of time without much investment.

According to Vilius Benetis, NRD Cyber Security director, the growth of the company has been fuelled by its focus on establishing and modernising cybersecurity teams and supplying them with centralised threat monitoring tools as well as providing managed security services to organisations of various scope and size.

NRD Cyber Security is a company providing cybersecurity consulting, security incident response and technology implementation and development services. It aims to create secure digital environments for countries, governments, and businesses, and undertakes a wide range of projects around the world. The company is managed by INVL Technology, a Nasdaq Vilnius-listed IT investment company.

Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA

文件 ELTA000020220422ei4m001e1


Latvia: Baltic PMs call for further sanctions on Russia, military support to Ukraine
314 字
2022 年 4 月 22 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Say Ukraine must win war started by Russia which requires military assistance, including weapons

Argue more can be done by targeting Russian oil and gas in terms of sanctions

There is need to further strengthen defence capacity in region as all three states increase defence spending

The Prime Ministers of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania met in Latvian capital Riga on Friday, April 22, to discuss the war in Ukraine and emphasized the importance of extending sanctions against Russia and military support to Ukraine, local media reported. They argued in order to achieve peace, Ukraine must win the war waged by Russia, which requires Western military assistance, including weapons in addition to stepping up sanction against Russia, excluding all its banks from the international payment system SWIFT and imposing sanctions against Russian energy sources, Latvian PM Karins said.

Estonian PM Kallas stated there a number of sanctions already imposed by the EU but stressed more can be done by targeting Russian oil and gas. Lithuanian PM Simonyte also said it is important to continue pressure on the Kremlin, to extend sanctions and agree on energy sanctions, in addition to cutting off all Russian banks from the SWIFT system.

The PMs also highlighted the need to further strengthen Baltic defence capacity and noted all three of them have decided to increase their defence spending. They argued that although NATO has increased its presence in the region since the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Russia must be shown that any aggression against a NATO country is doomed to failure.

PM Karins said the Baltic states request not only permanent NATO presence, but a new type of NATO presence based on the premise that no invasion or potential attack could take place because their capabilities to defence themselves and win would be unmistakable from day one.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220425ei4m0002m


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10402
Karolis Broga
6145 字
2022 年 4 月 25 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
(c) 2022 Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
NO. 10402 (94808) MONDAY MORNING, APRIL 25

 

GROUP OF LAWMAKERS VISITS UKRAINE TO MEET WITH MAYORS

 

Vilnius, April 25 (ELTA) – Chairman of the Lithuanian Parliament's Committee on National Security and Defence Laurynas Kasčiūnas recently visited Ukraine, where he met with Mayor of Mykolaiv City Oleksandr Syenkevych and Mayor of Dnipro City Borys Filatov. Meetings were also attended by other Conservative lawmakers, Deputy Parliament Speaker Paulius Saudargas and MP Justinas Urbanavičius.

According to Kasčiūnas, as Russia has changed its attack strategy, the meetings discussed preparation for defence and challenges faced by Ukrainians as a result of the Russian invasion.

"We have heard a very clear statement from Russia that its goal besides Donbass is a land corridor to Transnistria. This means they would have to seize Mykolaiv and Odessa. Their strategy is changing," MP Kasčiūnas told the news agency ELTA.

The politician said there is a problem with drinking water as Russian forces destroyed water supply in Mykolaiv. Now trucks deliver drinking water, while for other household purposes people draw water from a river. Local authorities are now working on a temporary solution to address the situation.

The MP added that Russian forces are 20 km from Mykolaiv and can shell the city not only with cruise missiles but also with artillery, which cuts the warning time for people to seek shelter and may lead to more casualties.

Sixty buildings have been destroyed in Mykolaiv and around 400 have been partially destroyed. Therefore, the MPs and the mayors discussed the European Union's assistance how it would help rebuild Ukraine.

Lithuanian lawmakers visited Ukraine and delivered aid to Ukrainian troops for the fourth time. This time they transferred pickup trucks, thermal imaging cameras and medical supplies to troops deployed near Mykolaiv.

 

CONSERVATIVE LAWMAKERS REGISTER DRAFT RESOLUTION WELCOMING FINLAND'S AND SWEDEN'S ASPIRATIONS TO JOIN NATO

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – Conservative MPs Laurynas Kasčiūnas and Laima Andrikienė have registered a draft resolution Regarding the Aspirations of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to Join NATO.

The draft resolution welcomes the intentions of Finland and Sweden to strive for NATO accession and encourages the countries to exercise their sovereign rights to apply for membership in the Alliance.

The draft resolution states that third countries do not have any right to veto in any form Finland's, Sweden's or any other European country's, which meets NATO criteria, free determination to join NATO.

Based on the document, if Finland and Sweden join NATO, this will significantly enhance the security and defendability of the two countries, of the entire region and NATO, especially taking into account that the regional security situation has deteriorated due to Russia's and Belarus' war against Ukraine and the loss of self-determination of Belarus.

The draft resolution expresses an expectation of rapid and smooth NATO accession and affirms a smooth ratification process at the Lithuanian Parliament.

The document also states that Finland and Sweden are reliable NATO partners, while their political, economic and defensive potential is an important factor for the security and defence of the Baltic and Nordic region.

Based on the draft resolution, parliament believes that Finland and Sweden meet all political, economic, military and other requirements required for NATO membership and the two countries are capable of fulfilling NATO membership commitments.

 

BALTIC PRIME MINISTERS AGREE IN RIGA ON JOINT EFFORTS TOWARDS GREATER REGIONAL SECURITY

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 22 April, Prime Ministers of the Baltic Council of Ministers Ingrida Šimonytė, Krišjānis Kariņš and Kaja Kallas met in Riga to discuss joint efforts to strengthen security in the region and provide support to Ukraine, also focusing on energy security, joint energy projects, preparation for the next winter season, and sanctions on Russia. The prime ministers also signed a joint statement, said the Office of the Government of Lithuania.

Condemning Russia's aggression and the ongoing war crimes in Ukraine, the prime ministers of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia called on international partners to increase support for Ukraine, particularly with heavy weapons. This is especially important for the victory of Ukraine and for peace in Europe, stressed the prime ministers.

The prime minister of Lithuania noted the importance of concerted international efforts to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice.

According to Prime Minister Šimonytė, the pressure on the Kremlin must continue, along with scaled up sanctions.

"The next package of sanctions should include an oil and gas embargo, the disconnection of the rest of Russian and Belarusian banks from the SWIFT, and putting those responsible for Russian propaganda on the list of sanctions," said Ingrida Šimonytė.

The Lithuanian prime minister emphasised the importance of granting Ukraine the status of an EU candidate.

"Russia's appalling aggression and de facto loss of Belarus' independence have fundamentally changed the security situation in the region. This change must reflect in NATO's relevant decisions," said the prime minister.

NATO must be fully prepared to defend the Baltic States, therefore appropriate decisions must be made regarding an effective forward defence, integrated air defence and early capability building in the Baltic States, emphasised the Lithuanian prime minister.

The Baltic prime ministers agreed to work closely following the refusal of Russian oil and gas, and to ensure regional coordination and the required natural gas reserves for the next winter season using the available infrastructure in the region.

The prime ministers also discussed the regional gas market, the need to step up the synchronisation of the power grids, and other issues related to increased energy security.

The prime ministers noted the need to continue coordination of actions and to act in unison and solidarity.

 

PRIME MINISTERS OF BALTIC STATES ISSUE JOINT STATEMENT REGARDING UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On Friday, 22 April, Prime Minister of Latvia Krišjānis Kariņš, Prime Minister of Estonia Kaja Kallas and Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė met in Riga, Latvia, to discuss the regional security situation and further aid to Ukraine, which is facing Russia's military aggression. The prime ministers have also adopted a joint statement, said the Office of the Government.

"We, the prime ministers of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, met in the wake of Russia's unprovoked and unjustified military aggression against Ukraine. We call on Russia to immediately cease its aggression, withdraw its troops from the whole territory of Ukraine and to fully comply with its obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, and to uphold human rights. We condemn the barbaric actions by Russia leading to the loss of innocent human lives, including women and children," the joint statement reads.

According to the prime ministers, every loss of life is a tragedy, whereas abduction, detention, torture, sexual assault and indiscriminate killing cannot and will not be tolerated or forgotten. It was noted that international efforts are ongoing to record the testimonies of Ukrainians in order to document and investigate the war crimes and eventually bring those responsible to justice.

"We stand united in support of Ukraine, its government and brave Ukrainian people. We reaffirm our unwavering support to Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders. Ukraine is on the frontline of fight for all of Europe and values we share. We will continue providing political, financial, humanitarian and military assistance to Ukraine. We urge our allies and partners to continue to do the same. Swift delivery of heavy weapons to Ukraine is essential for winning the war and securing peace in Europe. The future of Ukraine lies in the European Union. We recognise a clear European perspective for Ukraine with a view of granting the EU candidate country status," the statement reads.

Based on the statement, Russian aggression challenges the whole Euro-Atlantic security. Whereas unity, solidarity, and cohesion, reinforced through the unique transatlantic bond remain the cornerstone of security and stability on the continent. In light of Russia's war in Ukraine the prime ministers commend the indispensable and complementary effort of NATO and EU to fortify Europe's security architecture.

"NATO remains the foundation of our collective defence and the essential forum for security consultations and decisions. NATO is a defensive Alliance and will continue to strive for peace, security and stability in the whole of the Euro-Atlantic," the prime ministers stated.

The heads of Government of the Baltic States also said that at the upcoming NATO Summit in Madrid, they will seek to endorse the next NATO Strategic Concept and to significantly strengthen the long-term NATO deterrence and defence posture, and NATO's Eastern Flank.

"To deny opportunity for any aggression, a modern forward defence posture in the Baltic States is necessary. It would require more sizeable in-place forces in land, air and sea domains. Permanent allied force presence in the Baltic States should build around three combat ready divisions, with one division for each of the Baltic States, assigned for a collective defence operation and able to integrate national home defence forces. Each allocated division should include a forward deployed combat ready Allied brigade with necessary enablers built upon strengthened eFP BGs. We are committed to continuously increase national defence budgets to at least 2.5% of GDP. Additional funding will facilitate more rapid capability build-up in most critical areas, including for common Baltic projects," the joint statement reads.

Furthermore, the prime ministers reaffirmed that they will continue to work together to enhance the security of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Joint efforts in the area of capability building, defence planning and training ensure preparedness and ability to defend the Baltics, if and when necessary, said the prime ministers.

"We will continue to cooperate in procurement of Multi-Launch-Rocket-Systems (MLRS) and to explore other options for more coordinated efforts in the area of capability building. Together we will ensure that arrangements are in place to enable joint procedures to provide military and non-military assistance to each other or several of the Baltic States upon their request. Together we will reduce opportunities for the adversary to exploit gaps in our defence system either in peacetime, crisis or conflict," the prime ministers stated.

The heads of Government also stressed that the countries face hybrid threats, such as cyberattacks, information manipulation campaigns, foreign interference, intelligence operations, lawfare and economic pressuring. Adversaries use these tactics to try to divide the societies and weaken their resolve. They noted that countries must be ready for all types of threats and will therefore work individually, collectively and through NATO-EU cooperation to solidify resilience and ability to prevent and recover from any type of attack, be it kinetic or non-kinetic.

"Each nation has the right to choose its own security arrangements free from outside interference. NATO's door should remain open. The importance of further strengthening cooperation with like-minded partners such as Finland and Sweden, with whom we share the same challenges and threat assessment, will remain our priority work strand," the statement concludes.

 

GERMANY IS READY TO MAKE SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TO ESTABLISHMENT OF NATO'S BRIGADE IN LITHUANIA – FORMIN

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 22 April in Vilnius, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis met with German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, who is paying an official visit to Lithuania, said the Foreign Ministry.

The meeting focused on bilateral relations between Lithuania and Germany, Russia's war against Ukraine, the security situation in the region, comprehensive assistance to Ukraine, the need to strengthen the NATO eastern flank's defence capabilities, and ties with China. 

Lithuania's foreign minister noted that he appreciated Germany as a reliable strategic partner and thanked the country for its solidarity, significant contribution to the strengthening security of Lithuania and NATO's eastern border, and for the leadership of NATO's enhanced Forward Presence battlegroup in Lithuania.

According to Landsbergis, Germany's timely decision to deploy additional troops in Lithuania sends a clear message of unity and solidarity on behalf of the NATO as a whole.

"Today, I heard the most important message for Lithuania and the whole region – Germany is ready to make a significant contribution to the establishment of NATO's brigade in Lithuania," said the foreign minister.

According to Lithuania's foreign minister, there is a need for specific NATO decisions regarding the strengthening of the eastern flank's forward defence. The Alliance must be ready to defend the Baltic States from the very first minutes of a conflict.

The foreign ministers discussed how Russia's actions had radically changed the security environment and that this must be reflected in the decisions of the next NATO Summit in Madrid.

Landsbergis also thanked Germany for its solidarity in imposing sanctions against Russia and Belarus, the intention to stop importing oil from Russia by the end of the year, and stressed the urgent need to reach a consensus in the European Union on a new comprehensive package of sanctions against Russia.

"I understand that this is a difficult decision for countries that depend to a large extent on Russian energy resources, but it is a necessary one," said Landsbergis.

The foreign ministers agreed to continue providing comprehensive support to Ukraine, which was fighting for the values and security of Europe as a whole.

"As Russia intensifies its military actions in the eastern Ukraine, Ukraine needs all possible weapons to counter new attacks. If our partners are facing challenges in training Ukrainian soldiers to use modern equipment, Lithuania can offer our competent instructors, equipment, polygons, and other necessary assistance. We are already training Ukrainians to use the equipment, so it will be easy for us to expand the training program," said Landsbergis.

Landsbergis also stressed that Lithuania was ready to support all steps taken by Germany in order to protect the rules-based global security order, defend Ukraine, and punish the aggressor.

During her official visit to Lithuania, Baerbock will also meet with German troops stationed in Lithuania as part of NATO's enhanced Forward Presence Battle Group Battalion.

 

DEPUTY DEFMIN AND ESTONIAN AND LATVIAN COUNTERPARTS DISCUSSED NECESSITY TO STRENGTHEN NATO PRESENCE

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 21-22 April, Deputy Minister of National Defence Margiris Abukevičius visited Riga. He had a meeting with State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence of Latvia Jānis Garisons on the security situation, assistance to Ukraine, joint Baltic projects and new initiatives. The deputy minister also met with Latvia's cybersecurity personnel on opportunities for cooperation in the area, stated the Ministry of National Defence.

"Russia's war in Ukraine has changed the security environment irreversibly. Russia is a long-term threat to the Alliance, particularly, the Baltic States. We have discussed the desired changes in the Alliance's deterrence and defence with the Estonian and Latvian colleagues with that in mind. NATO presence in the Baltics must be significantly increased, so that it would not only deter but also be ready for the defence of the Alliance territory effectively and immediately. We need to have forward-deployed equipment, ammunition and stocks," says Abukevičius.

On 22 April, the deputy minister joined the Lithuanian delegation for the Baltic prime ministers' meeting which addressed the Baltic security cooperation, upcoming NATO Summit in Madrid this summer, sanctions on Russia and Belarus, and energy security.

Abukevičius will conclude his visit to Riga with the Senior Leaders Course at the Baltic Defence College. He will join State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence of Latvia Jānis Garisons and Permanent Secretary of the Estonian Ministry of Defence Kusti Salm for a discussion on the security of NATO's eastern flank countries in the wake of the Russian brutality in Ukraine.

 

ARMOURED VEHICLE REPAIR SHOP TO BE BUILT IN RUKLA WITH SECOND INFANTRY FIGHTING VEHICLE ACQUISITION IN PLANNING

 

Vilnius, April 25 (ELTA) – As the Ministry of National Defence is in negotiations on the second stage of Vilkas Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV) acquisition, The Infrastructure Management Agency signed a contract with Jungtiniai Projektai UAB on constructions of IFV repair shop at Rukla, reports the Ministry of National Defence.

A repair yard for armoured tracked and wheeled equipment and trucks is planned to be built on the territory of the Lithuanian Grand Duke Algirdas Mechanised Infantry Battalion. The facility will also include a carwash, equipment shelter, quarters for vehicle technical service and painting. With the estimated overall area of approx. 5,000 square meter, it will make the largest repair shop in the Lithuanian Armed Forces.

"The future facility is closely linked to the IFV acquisition programme already underway in the Lithuanian Armed Forces which is critically important for national security. The repair yard will ensure technical maintenance of the combat equipment of the Lithuanian Armed Forces," says Deputy Minister of National Defence Vilius Semeška.

The constructions are planned to be completed next July. The total value of the project is EUR 12 million.

The Ministry of National Defence initiated negotiations on the second round of Vilkas IFVs. According to the deputy minister, the contract on additional vehicles could be signed as soon as this summer. Over 120 armoured infantry fighting vehicles of Boxer type are planned to augment the Lithuanian Armed Forces capabilities. Part of them will be armed with a 30 mm cannon and another part – with 12.7 mm machine-guns.

If the contract is signed, the new batch of Vilkas IFVs would begin arriving in late 2023 – early 2024.

 

THE WEST MUST TAKE FURTHER COORDINATED ACTIONS TO SANCTION AGGRESSORS – FINMIN

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – Minister of Finance of Lithuania Gintarė Skaistė visited Washington DC on 22 April, where she met with US Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemo. The minister emphasised the need of international coordination of further sanctions on Russia, which is carrying out military aggression against Ukraine, and on Russia's accomplice Belarus.

The minister said the West must strive for an agreement not to buy oil and gas from Russia.

According to Skaistė, the leadership of the United States in coordinating international sanctions against aggressors is an example of successful cooperation of Western partners striving to stop aggressors.

The minister stressed that war crimes perpetrated by Russia in Ukraine must not go unpunished. She said Russia and Belarus must be removed from international financial institutions and the Russian regime must be cut off from main financial flows, i.e. the West cannot continue buying Russian oil and gas because Russia uses this income to fund its war against Ukraine and her people.

What is more, the minister underscored the necessity of a large-scale financial and humanitarian aid for Ukraine that would reflect both short- and long-term reconstruction needs of the country.

 

DELEGATION LED BY JUSTICE MIN VISITS THE NETHERLANDS

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – A Lithuanian delegation led by Minister of Justice Evelina Dobrovolska is visiting The Hague, the Netherlands, to meet with representatives of international justice bodies and discuss cooperation as well as coordinated actions of assistance to Ukraine, which has been invaded by Russia.

Cooperation opportunities as well as an investigation opened by the International Criminal Court (ICC) into war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine were discussed at a meeting with ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan.

Dobrovolska said Lithuania's Ministry of Justice took on leadership in consolidating support of other countries for crucial legal processes. Currently, this is a priority for Lithuania.

The minister stressed that justice must triumph and everything must be done so that war criminals would be punished as soon as possible as Russia and Belarus carry out brutal military aggression against independent Ukraine.

Furthermore, Dobrovolska said that solidarity of all countries is key, as well as the involvement of non-governmental organisations and Eurojust, the European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation.

According to the minister, war crimes must be punished and, therefore, politicians and academics are invited to discuss this topic at an international conference in Vilnius on 6 May.

Moreover, at a meeting with Registrar of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) Philippe Gautier, challenges related to the implementation of the Court's decisions and procedural regulations of cases were discussed.

According to the minister, as the ICJ adopted a decision on the application of temporary protection measures striving to stop Russia's aggression in Ukraine, it is crucial that the issue of Russia's responsibility for failing to implement this decision would be constantly raised at the United Nations.

In The Hague, meetings also took place with President of Eurojust Ladislav Hamran, Minister for Legal Protection of the Netherlands Franc Weerwind, representatives of Europol and Lithuanians working at Europol.

 

MINISTERS OF CULTURE OF LITHUANIA AND POLAND VISITED UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On April 22, at the invitation of Oleksandr Tkachenko, the minister of culture and information policy of Ukraine, Piotr Gliński, the deputy prime minister and minister of culture and national heritage of Poland, and Simonas Kairys, the minister of culture of Lithuania, visited Ukraine. The purpose of their visit is to support Ukraine in countering the aggression of the Russian federation on the cultural and information fronts, reports the Ministry of Culture.

"Lithuania and Poland are great friends of Ukraine, who were the first to come to the rescue. We felt this in disorder and disaster caused by Russian aggression on our land. The war does not make Ukraine weak. On the contrary it becomes only stronger. We plan to expand the boundaries of cooperation between the countries of the Lublin Triangle. The Russian occupation forces are not only destroying everything in Ukraine, they are threatening the whole Europe. Today, Ukraine is in the forefront of both military and value confrontation. Only thanks to the consolidation of the partners' efforts will we be able to resist the aggressor on all fronts," said Oleksandr Tkachenko, the minister of culture and information policy of Ukraine.

During the visit of the Lublin Triangle, countries expressed their unconditional solidarity with Ukraine by signing a relevant statement concerning this.

Piotr Gliński, the deputy prime minister and minister of culture and national heritage of Poland said: "Today we are in Kyiv to demonstrate our full support for Ukraine, to show that 'solidarity' is not an empty word. We were supposed to meet here on 25 February – and we are meeting almost two months later, two months of the struggle of the heroic defenders of Ukraine against the brutal, ruthless invaders. We, Poles, Lithuanians, Ukrainians, the people of the heart of Europe, know very well, due to our difficult past, the modus operandi of the Russian Federation, heir to the Soviet Union and Tsarist Russia. This experience makes us stand together here – because today Ukraine is fighting for its own, but also for our freedom, for our basic values. There is no place for an illusion of symmetry or nuance in this war. That is why we are here today – to constantly remind and show the world that there has been a war in Ukraine, that innocent people are dying, and that the culture, which is an integral, inseparable part of the European heritage, is being destroyed. We want to support Ukraine on all fronts, also in the field of culture. I strongly believe that the entire civilised world is on the side of Ukraine, I believe that the Ukrainians will achieve the final victory. Nowadays, like never before, we have a chance to reconcile and strengthen our mutual relations. Two months ago we remotely signed a declaration of cooperation in the field of culture and historical heritage. Today we are here to confirm our will to develop cooperation within the Lublin Triangle in the field of culture."

Simonas Kairys, the minister of culture of Lithuania added: "Yesterday we heard the news that there will be no session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee in Kazan. The Saint Sophia Cathedral, which we visited today, is a symbol of the history and statehood of Ukraine, a grand and culturally rich country. We would like to once again emphasise the absurdity of the situation in which Russia is still the chair of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, whose aim is to preserve, not to destroy.

I strongly believe that, together with Ukraine and Poland, we will develop cooperation in the Lublin Triangle format. Firstly, both Lithuania and Poland actively support Ukraine's integration into the European Union. Ukraine already is a part of Europe which is defending our values with weapons and the blood of its citizens. To us, the ministers of culture, it is highly important to speak about the war in the information sphere as well. We must even more actively strive for Russian and Belarussian TV channels to be blocked in the EU territory and solve other matters related to the fight with disinformation. The enemy is always trying to poison our thoughts, our thinking, and then he comes armed."

Thus, during the joint meeting the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture of Lithuania and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Poland discussed urgent issues concerning:

Establishment of a joint working group to restore Ukrainian cultural heritage;

The need to impose sanctions against individuals and legal entities that support Russian military aggression against Ukraine and continue to spread disinformation about the war in Ukraine;

Provision of financial support for Ukrainian broadcasters of the national marathon;

Provision of Ukraine with TV and radio equipment that will help restore the TV infrastructure damaged by Russian troops in some areas;

Implementation of cultural projects aimed at supporting the temporarily displaced Ukrainian population (refugees), including initiatives for cultural cooperation between artists and cultural figures, provision of books, etc.

It should be reminded that joint events and cooperation were planned between the countries of the Lublin Triangle before the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine. It is a diplomatic initiative that unites Ukraine, Lithuania and Poland. Within this format, Warsaw, Vilnius and Kyiv cooperate in the political, economic, social and cultural spheres. In particular, on 28 February, the ministers of culture of the Lublin Triangle signed an online declaration of intent to develop cultural routes Ukraine-Poland-Lithuania.

 

KLAIPĖDOS NAFTA REVENUE AT EUR 58.6MN IN 2021

 

Klaipėda, April 25 (ELTA) – AB Klaipėdos Nafta annual general meeting of shareholders held on 22 April in between the other questions approved the audited consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021, the company reports.

Revenue of the group of AB Klaipėdos Nafta for the year 2021 comprises EUR 61.8 million, 22.8% less compared to the year 2020 (EUR 80.1 million). The company's revenue comprises EUR 58.6 million and is lower by 24.3% compared to 2020 (EUR 77.5 million).

Adjusted net loss of the group comprises EUR -47.2 million, while in 2020 an adjusted net profit of EUR 11.5 million was earned. Adjusted net profit margin of the group is -76.3% (2020 – 14.3%). The company's adjusted net loss comprises EUR -48.1 million, while in 2020 an adjusted net profit of EUR 11.0 million was earned. The company's adjusted net profit margin is -82.0% (2020 – 14.2%);

The group's EBITDA for the year 2021 comprises EUR 26.1 million and is 45.8% lower compared to the year 2020 (EUR 48.2 million). The company's EBITDA comprises EUR 24.6 million and is 48.0% lower compared to 2020 (EUR 47.3 million).

 

LITHUANIA'S GOVERNMENT DEFICIT TO GDP RATIO AT 1% IN 2021 – EUROSTAT

 

Luxembourg, April 22 (ELTA) – In 2021, the government deficit of both the euro area and the EU decreased compared with 2020, as did the government debt. In the euro area the government deficit to GDP ratio shrunk from 7.1% in 2020 to 5.1% in 2021, and in the EU from 6.8% to 4.7%. In the euro area the government debt to GDP ratio decreased from 97.2% at the end of 2020 to 95.6% at the end of 2021, and in the EU from 90.0% to 88.1%, stated Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union.

In 2021, all Member States, except Denmark (+2.3%) and Luxembourg (+0.9%), reported a deficit. The highest deficits were recorded in Malta (-8.0%), Greece (-7.4%), Latvia (-7.3%), Italy (-7.2%), Romania (-7.1%), Spain (-6.9%), Hungary (-6.8%), France (-6.5%) and Slovakia (-6.2%). Fifteen Member States had deficits higher than 3% of GDP. Lithuania's deficit was 1.0%

At the end of 2021, the lowest ratios of government debt to GDP were recorded in Estonia (18.1%), Luxembourg (24.4%), Bulgaria (25.1%), Denmark and Sweden (both 36.7%). Fourteen Member States had government debt ratios higher than 60% of GDP, with the highest registered in Greece (193.3%), Italy (150.8%), Portugal (127.4%), Spain (118.4%), France (112.9%), Belgium (108.2%) and Cyprus (103.6%).

In Lithuania, at the end of 2021, the government debt to GDP ratio was 44.3%.

In 2021, government expenditure in the euro area was equivalent to 52.4% of GDP and government revenue to 47.3%. The figures for the EU were 51.6% and 46.9%, respectively. In both zones, the government expenditure ratio decreased, while the government revenue ratio increased.

 

IN LITHUANIA, GOVERNMENT DEBT TO GDP RATIO WAS 44.3% AT THE END OF Q4 2021 – EUROSTAT

 

Luxembourg, April 22 (ELTA) – At the end of the fourth quarter of 2021, the government debt to GDP ratio in the euro area stood at 95.6%, compared with 97.5% at the end of the third quarter of 2021. In the EU, the ratio also decreased from 89.9% to 88.1%, reports Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union.

For the euro area, the decrease in government debt to GDP ratio is due to an increase in GDP and a slight decrease in the nominal debt in absolute terms, while for the EU the nominal debt continued to increase slightly but was outweighed by the increase in GDP.

Compared with the fourth quarter of 2020, the government debt to GDP ratio decreased in both the euro area (from 97.2% to 95.6%) and the EU (from 90.0% to 88.1%). The decreases are due to the increases in GDP outweighing the increase in government debt.

At the end of the fourth quarter of 2021, debt securities accounted for 82.6% of euro area and for 82.3% of EU general government debt. Loans made up 14.2% and 14.7% respectively and currency and deposits represented 3.1% of euro area and 3.0% of EU government debt. Due to the involvement of EU Member States' governments in financial assistance to certain Member States, quarterly data on intergovernmental lending (IGL) are also published. The share of IGL as percentage of GDP at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 accounted for 1.8% in the euro area and to 1.6% in the EU.

The highest ratios of government debt to GDP at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 were recorded in Greece (193.3%), Italy (150.8%), Portugal (127.4%), Spain (118.4%), France (112.9%), Belgium (108.2%) and Cyprus (103.6%), and the lowest in Estonia (18.1%), Luxembourg (24.4%) and Bulgaria (25.1%).

In Lithuania, the ratio of government debt to GDP was 44.3% at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021. It was by 0.8 percentage points lower compared with the third quarter of 2021 and by 2.3 percentage points lower compared with the fourth quarter of 2020.

Compared with the third quarter of 2021, seven Member States registered an increase in their debt to GDP ratio at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021, nineteen a decrease, while the ratio remained stable in Germany. Increases in the ratio were observed in Slovakia (+1.8 percentage points – pp), Czechia (+1.5 pp), Latvia (+1.3 pp), Bulgaria (+0.9 pp), Romania (+0.6 pp), Malta (+0.4 pp) and Sweden (+0.3 pp), while the largest decreases were recorded in Greece (-8.3 pp), Cyprus (-5.4 pp), Slovenia (-5.0 pp) and Italy (-3.8 pp).

Compared with the fourth quarter of 2020, seven Member States registered an increase in their debt to GDP ratio at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 and twenty Member States a decrease. Increases in the ratio were recorded in Czechia (+4.2 pp), Malta (+3.6 pp), Slovakia (+3.3 pp), Romania (+1.6 pp), Latvia (+1.5 pp), Germany (+0.6 pp) and Bulgaria (+0.4 pp), while the largest decreases were observed in Greece (-13.1 pp), Cyprus (-11.4 pp), Portugal (-7.8 pp), Croatia (-7.5 pp), Denmark (-5.4 pp) and Slovenia (-5.1 pp).

 

LAST OF SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL REMOVED FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE AT IGNALINA NPP

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 21 April, the last – 190th – cask of spent nuclear fuel was taken to the new interim spent fuel storage facility at the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant (NPP). This is an important phase in the decommissioning of the Ignalina NPP, which was started in 2016 and is now on the way to being successfully completed, said the Ministry of Energy.

"Watching the last cask of nuclear fuel travel to the interim storage facility, there is a great sense of pride – a technically complex project has been implemented. We would especially like to thank the power plant team and the representatives from other institutions who helped to implement the project in a safe and timely manner," said Deputy Minister of Energy Albinas Zananavičius.

With no nuclear (fissile) materials left in the reactor buildings, one of the most significant guidelines of the Ignalina NPP decommissioning programme will have been achieved. Once all of the fuel is removed from the units, the Ignalina NPP will be able to obtain a VATESI decommissioning licence and perform complex decommissioning works related to the dismantling of the reactor systems. The terms of this licence are expected to allow for the reduction of post-operational costs and more efficient dismantling and demolition of buildings.

"The completion of such a significant and technically complex project is an important event in the history of the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant and an expression of our core mission. We aim to become experts in the safe and efficient decommissioning of nuclear facilities as well as in radioactive waste management. We are committed to safely implementing an unprecedented project – the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant with two RBMK reactors. We need to do our part for future generations, so we are moving towards this goal," said CEO Audrius Kamienas.  

The design storage time for casks is 50 years. In accordance with the provisions of the Radioactive Waste Management Development Programme, at the end of the temporary storage period, the spent nuclear fuel is planned to be placed in a deep repository along with the other long-lived radioactive waste.

The metal-concrete CONSTOR® RBMK-1500/M2 storage casks have a height of 4.5 m and a diameter of 2.6 m; one fully loaded cask weighs 118 tonnes and holds 91 fuel assemblies.

During the entire operation period of the Ignalina NPP, 21,571 heat-generating nuclear fuel assemblies were used – 6,016 are stored in the old storage facility and 15,555 are stored in the new storage facility.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Monday, April 25

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to give an interview to Good Morning Britain (Presidential Palace, 9:00);

-- -- to have a working meet with Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas and Chief of Defence Valdemaras Rupšys, 11:00);

-- -- to see off the Lithuanian delegation to Summer Deaflympics in Brazil (Presidential Palace, 15:00).

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to arrive at Berlin Brandenburg Airport, Germany (15:00);

-- -- to meet with Annett Witte, the head of the Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom, and Professor Karl-Heinz Paqué, the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Foundation (16:15);

-- -- to meet with the Lithuanian community at the Embassy of Lithuania in Germany (19:00).

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to hold a working meeting (9:00);

-- -- to attend an informal meeting of ministers (10:00);

-- -- to attend a sitting of the Government (10:30);

-- -- to deliver a welcoming speech at the annual conference of the Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists (11:00);

-- -- to meet with PKN Orlen President Daniel Obajtek (13:00);

-- -- to attend a meeting of the project supervision commission for the construction of the physical barrier at the border with Belarus (14:00).

BUSINESS

-- The annual conference of the Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists (LPK) to take place in Vilnius (Hilton Garden Inn Vilnius City Centre, Gedimino 44B, 11:00).

-- END.

Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA

文件 ELTA000020220425ei4p000b5


Europe should increase food production, postpone environmental requirements and biofuel additives - Dombrovskis
LETA
364 字
2022 年 4 月 25 日 07:33 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, April 25 (LETA) - In order to reduce the negative impact of the war in Ukraine on food prices, Europe should increase food productions and consider a possibility to postpone certain environmental requirements and biofuel additives, said European Commission's Executive Vice President Valdis Dombrovskis (New Unity) in an interview with LETA.

He said that the European Commission has made an assessment on food supply security and concluded that the EU will not face food supply problems because the EU is able to sustain itself with the basic food products. However, a number of development countries might face food supply problems, therefore it should be considered how to help these countries. At the same time, the EU might face the negative social consequences from the growing food prices.

The European Commission proposes to increase food production this year, and postponing in a short term certain environmental requirements, for example, grow food crops on fallow lands.

"There are strict EU requirements in all these aspects and we propose to stepping back. Also, we call on member states to consider the mandatory biofuel additives. As we know, the first stage biofuel has not ensured any seriously positive effect, and now we should consider how to use farmlands for food crops instead of fuel," said Dombrovskis.

"We call on member states to assess, how prioritary biofuel additives are, and is it not more useful to use farmlands for growing food to reduce the pressure on food prices. The final decision is up to each member states," said Dombrovskis.

Also, he said that it is the decision of each member state to reduce value added tax (VAT) on food products. "It is the choice of each member state to provide targeted support to those groups of residents who need it or go for overall reduction of the tax rate," he said.

As reported, Russia's attack on Ukraine and the following economic sanction have caused a steep inflation, especially on food prices because Ukraine and Russia are large exporters of grain and other food products. Energy resource and fertilizer prices have also risen steeply.

45393132363930442D364141372D3446

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220425ei4p000xd


Latvian minister urges Nato to refocus deterrence policy
284 字
2022 年 4 月 29 日 10:06 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
Text of report in English by Latvian news agency LETA on 29 April

RIGA, April 29 (LETA) - Today, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics welcomed the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Estonia Eva-Maria Liimets, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland Zbigniew Rau to Riga.

The Ministers discussed cooperation towards reinforcing the region's security, and support for Ukraine, LETA was informed by the Foreign Ministry.

The Ministers of Foreign Affairs exchanged views on key issues of transatlantic security ahead of the NATO Summit to be held in Madrid at the end of June. They underlined the need for strengthening and expanding permanent presence of Nato forces in the eastern flank of the Alliance.

Rinkevics noted that current changes in the security situation in the region calls for refocusing Nato's deterrence and security policy. ''We want to achieve permanent presence of Nato troops in the Baltic States and Poland, which would enable us to resist any threat from Russia and Belarus and protect every inch of our territory," the Minister said. The Ministers also agreed on further cooperation in the energy sector in order to ensure independence from Russia's resources in the shortest possible time.

The officials then discussed the most effective ways of helping Ukraine in its fight against Russia's military aggression. The Foreign Ministers were of the same mind that deliveries of military equipment and weapons must be continued and increased. In addition, the sanction regime against Russia must be reinforced by envisaging further restrictive measures in the energy sector.

Source: LETA website, Riga, in English 0918 gmt 29 Apr 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220429ei4t000rt


Changes in security situation in region call for a refocusing of NATO 's deterrence and defense policy - Rinkevics
277 字
2022 年 4 月 29 日 09:19 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2022 Baltic News Service
RIGA, Apr 29, BNS - Today, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics welcomed the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Estonia Eva-Maria Liimets, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland Zbigniew Rau to Riga. 

The Ministers discussed cooperation towards reinforcing the region’s security, and support for Ukraine, BNS was informed by the Foreign Ministry.

The Ministers of Foreign Affairs exchanged views on key issues of transatlantic security ahead of the NATO Summit to be held in Madrid at the end of June. They underlined the need for strengthening and expanding permanent presence of NATO forces in the eastern flank of the Alliance. 

Rinkevics noted that current changes in the security situation in the region calls for refocusing NATO ’s deterrence and security policy. ''We want to achieve permanent presence of NATO troops in the Baltic States and Poland, which would enable us to resist any threat from Russia and Belarus and protect every inch of our territory,;; the Minister said. The Ministers also agreed on further cooperation in the energy sector in order to ensure independence from Russia’s resources in the shortest possible time.

The officials then discussed the most effective ways of helping Ukraine in its fight against Russia’s military aggression. The Foreign Ministers were of the same mind that deliveries of military equipment and weapons must be continued and increased. In addition, the sanction regime against Russia must be reinforced by envisaging further restrictive measures in the energy sector.

BNS, +371 67088611, zinas@bns.lv

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020220429ei4t001up


Changes in security situation in region call for a refocusing of NATO 's deterrence and defense policy - Rinkevics
Inese Trenča
272 字
2022 年 4 月 29 日 09:18 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, April 29 (LETA) - Today, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics welcomed the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Estonia Eva-Maria Liimets, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland Zbigniew Rau to Riga.

The Ministers discussed cooperation towards reinforcing the region’s security, and support for Ukraine, LETA was informed by the Foreign Ministry.

The Ministers of Foreign Affairs exchanged views on key issues of transatlantic security ahead of the NATO Summit to be held in Madrid at the end of June. They underlined the need for strengthening and expanding permanent presence of NATO forces in the eastern flank of the Alliance.

Rinkevics noted that current changes in the security situation in the region calls for refocusing NATO ’s deterrence and security policy. ''We want to achieve permanent presence of NATO troops in the Baltic States and Poland, which would enable us to resist any threat from Russia and Belarus and protect every inch of our territory,;; the Minister said. The Ministers also agreed on further cooperation in the energy sector in order to ensure independence from Russia’s resources in the shortest possible time.

The officials then discussed the most effective ways of helping Ukraine in its fight against Russia’s military aggression. The Foreign Ministers were of the same mind that deliveries of military equipment and weapons must be continued and increased. In addition, the sanction regime against Russia must be reinforced by envisaging further restrictive measures in the energy sector.

31434441414337342D393733392D3438

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220429ei4t000m9


Latvijas gāze will not be given a special permit to pay Gazprom for gas in roubles
LETA
710 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日 11:03 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2022. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Latvian Finance and Capital Market Commission (FKTK) does not issue special permits for payments to companies – only to financial institutions whose clients request the right to perform payments to persons under sanctions, but only cases of exception, as reported by FKTK representatives, commenting on the request from JSC Latvijas gāze for a special permit for changes in the way payments are processed with Russian Gazprom.

Moreover, the issue of such a permit is not possible if the request is made to process payments with a Russian credit institution, which is outside of FKTK’s supervised area, FKTK representatives explain.

In addition to the aforementioned, FKTK representatives explain that the general position of the European Commission is that receiving Russian gas is still possible, as long as it is done within active contracts and regulations. Other scenarios are either not considered or are not possible, as they could be considered as attempts to circumvent sanctions.

At the same time, FKTK representatives stress that compliance of sanctions is not just the responsibility of supervisory institutions, but also the responsibility of each individual company.

Circumvention of sanctions can have a negative impact on such a company’s future operations and reputation. The Criminal Law also provides liability for violation of sanctions imposed by the European Union.

As previously reported, LG turned to FKTK with a request to be provided with a special permit for changes to the payment processing order with Russian Gazprom, according to the statement from LG board chairman Aigars Kalvītis to Nasdaq Riga.

The company’s chairman notes that LG has a long-term gas supply contract signed with Gazprom. The contract cover the period between 2000 and 2030. In accordance with this contract, all payments for gas were performed only in euros until now.

On 31 March 2022 President of Russia Vladimir Putin signed a decree under which western countries are to pay for gas only in Russian roubles starting with 1 April.

The new payment scheme imposed by the Kremlin provides for western countries to open payment accounts in Russian Gazprombank. The bank will then convert foreign currency received as payments for gas into roubles at the Moscow exchange. Roubles will then be transferred to the accounts of western countries that paid for gas in foreign currency.

Since the implementation of the change, LG has not performed any procurement of gas from Gazprom. This is because of both political and commercial reasons. Kalvītis stresses that there sis still no clear position from the European Commission and Latvia on the topic of changes to the established system for transactions for gas. On top of that, the gas market price is economically non-competitive and excessively high.

LG has also asked the Ministry of Economics as the state institution responsible for supervising the energy sector and sector policy to provide an explanation if payments in euros can be considered compatible with the sanction regime in relation to Russia, so that LG is able to plan its operations and continue fulfilling their duties before more than 350 000 households.

On 28 February the Saeima passed amendments and banned imports of Russian natural gas. However, there is still no clarity as to this restriction. Latvia’s government is working on making it official from 2023. This topic will be discussed further during the last reading of amendments.

Gazprom has shut down all supplies of gas to Poland and Bulgaria because both countries refused to pay for gas in roubles. Hungary has announced that it will pay for Russian gas in roubles.

Read also: Baltic States report limited remaining financial capabilities to help Ukrainian refugees

LG’s biggest shareholders are Gazprom (34%), Marguerite Gas II.S.a.r.l. (28,97%), Uniper Ruhrgas International GmbH (18,26%) and LLC Itera Latvija (16%).

In 2021 LG’s turnover was EUR 583.342 million, according to provisional data. This is three times more when compared to 2020. The company’s profits dropped 3.4 times – to EUR 3.2 million.

The post Latvijas gāze will not be given a special permit to pay Gazprom for gas in roubles appeared first on Baltic News Network - News from Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020220502ei520008e


In context of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Europe has taken decisions unexpectedly fast - head of EC representation in Latvia
358 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 07:07 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2022 Baltic News Service
RIGA, May 6, BNS - In a situation when Russia has started military aggression against Ukraine, Europe has made decisions unexpectedly fast, Zane Petre, the head of the European Commission (EC) representation in Latvia, admitted in an interview with the Latvian Television this morning.

According to her, in response to the situation in Ukraine, Europe has shown its unity and has now been able to agree on five packages of sanctions, and this week the President of the European Commission announced the sixth round of sanctions.

"The decisions made so far have shown that Europe can come to an agreement, and in this situation, when Russia has launched military aggression against Ukraine, it has made decisions unexpectedly fast," Petre said.

She also believes that the war in Ukraine and Europe's response to it have given people confidence that being part of the European Union has "huge added value", giving a sense of security.

The AFP news agency reports that the European Union's executive unveiled Wednesday plans for a gradual ban on Russian oil imports as part of a raft of new sanctions to punish Moscow for invading Ukraine.

The European Commission also proposed slapping sanctions on Russia's biggest bank and on Patriarch Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church.

If approved by member states, the oil ban would be the EU's toughest move yet against the Russian energy sector, which helps the Kremlin finance its war.

But it will still not touch Russia's huge gas exports -- and several EU member states are demanding an extension while they secure new sources of fuel.

The oil embargo would be part of the bloc's sixth sanction package and would be phased-in over the rest of the year. It needs to be adopted unanimously by the EU's 27 countries.

The EU is the biggest consumer of Russian crude. Last year Russia supplied 30 percent of the bloc's oil and 15 percent of its petroleum products.

BNS, +371 67088611, zinas@bns.lv

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020220506ei560012x


Baltics were the 1st to support Ukraine with arms, diplomacy – Zelensky
LETA
251 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 13:02 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
VILNIUS, May 6 (LETA--BNS) - The Baltic states were the first to support Ukraine with both arms and diplomacy when the war broke out, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says.

"Since the beginning of the war, the Baltic countries were the first to support Ukraine with both arms and diplomacy," the Ukrainian leader posted on his official Telegram account as the foreign ministers of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia visit Kyiv on Friday.

"Thank you to Estonian Minister Eva-Maria Liimets, Latvian Minister Edgars Rinkevics and Lithuanian Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis for visiting Kyiv! It is important not only to step up sanction pressure, but also to maintain the sanctions' integrity. We cannot allow the aggressor to evade them and continue funding its criminal war against Ukraine", the post reads.

Landsbergis said on his Twitter account that the purpose of the visit was to discuss the future reconstruction of destroyed cities and the prospect of Ukraine's EU membership.

"Visiting Kyiv with Latvian and Estonian colleagues. This time we are also talking about the rebuilding, restoration and the EU candidate status for #Ukraine. Blooming Kyiv reminds that the country is ready for a bright future," he tweeted.

The visit comes amid Russia's ongoing military invasion of Ukraine, started in late February. It

has so far left thousands of people dead, cities destroyed and more than 13 million people displaced.

redakcija@bns.lt, +370 645 093 86, Vilnius newsroom

38393543443730352D464138372D3438

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220506ei56002bd


BUSINESS
Speech by EVP Dombrovskis at American Chamber of Commerce in Latvia
1825 字
2022 年 5 月 7 日
Insight EU Issue Monitor Posts (IEU-P)
DPAEUM
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
6 May 2022

Labdien, prieks visus redzēt Rīgā.

Many thanks for your words of introduction, and thank you to AmCham Latvia for inviting me today.

Ladies and gentlemen,

Let me begin with some words on Ukraine. Russia’s brutal invasion continues to send shockwaves around the world.

I am proud that the Latvian people, the wider European Union, and our allies in the U.S. have shown such outstanding solidarity towards Ukraine.

We are committed to maintaining a strong and decisive response to this outrageous war.

Our response has been, and must continue to be, on all levels: economic, financial, political, military and humanitarian.

But we must do even more to help Ukraine defend itself and to win this war.

Because Ukraine is fighting for all democracies. It is fighting for its own freedom, but also fighting for the security of us all against tyranny.

First: Ukraine needs more arms, including heavy weaponry. Although arms deliveries have increased, there is still room to do more in this area.

Second, on sanctions against Russia: the EU has moved fast, working closely with the United States and other like-minded partners.

So far, the EU has imposed five packages of sanctions.

EU Member States are working on the sixth package as we speak.

For this package, the European Commission proposed:

* a ban on Russian oil;

* listing of war criminals;

* further disconnection of banks, including Sberbank, from SWIFT; and

* a further ban on propaganda.

Third, Ukraine needs emergency financial support that is estimated at EUR 5 billion per month. This support is vital for Ukraine’s survival.

On the EU side, we are advancing the next installment of the emergency Macro Financial Assistance programme. We plan to disburse EUR 600 million in the next few weeks.

We are closely coordinating the work on providing financial support to Ukraine with international financial organisations like the IMF and World Bank, as well as with our international partners, such as the United States and Canada.

Ukraine’s long-term reconstruction needs will also be massive.

The Commission is currently working on establishing a Ukraine Solidarity Trust Fund, which will be dedicated to rebuilding Ukraine, together with Ukrainians.

Russia’s aggression against Ukraine is also causing a substantial setback to the global economic recovery from COVID-19 crisis.

Governments, international organisations and businesses must therefore adapt, and work together to make the right decisions.

As ever, the transatlantic dimension will be central to this work.

During my recent mission to Washington D.C., a number of clear themes emerged, including the need to adapt global trade arrangements to the new reality.

This war has highlighted the need for resilient and diversified supply chains, notably for products such as fossil fuels, fertilisers and feed.

The increasingly turbulent geopolitical landscape means we must work harder to ensure reliable access to important inputs and critical raw materials.

The EU should therefore invest in its bilateral trade relationships, making maximum use of existing agreements, while pursuing new deals with trusted partners.

For instance, the agreement with Chile would be important to access lithium supplies. Similarly, the agreements with Indonesia, Mercosur and Australia, will be important both in terms of offering export outlets and for securing the supply of raw materials.

I hope we can count on the support of AmCham for this approach.

It is also clear that companies on both sides of the Atlantic need to work on managing risks in their supply chains, for example, by diversifying their sourcing.

We have in this context been working intensively with EU Member States and our international partners.

We are also frequently engaging with industry. This allows us to explain measures taken, support sanction compliance, and work together to plan for the future.

I want to thank Latvian and American companies for their support and for their willingness to take action.

I especially thank those companies who left the Russian market, putting profits after values, and I suggest others follow this example.

Furthermore, I commend those companies who already resumed business activities in Ukraine. This economic support is crucial.

We started to publish guidance in March 2022 to address the most Frequently Asked Questions from exporters, and we remain in permanent contact with competent authorities to support consistent application of measures.

We will continue to work closely with Member States and industry, and we are ready to revise the public guidance as appropriate.

Of course, the war, our sanctions and Russian counter-sanctions come at a cost to us, but this is the price we must be willing to pay to stop the aggressor, and defend our values and freedoms.

I remind you that Russia bears the sole responsibility for the current surge in energy and food prices, and for putting the global recovery at risk.

The IMF cut its forecast for global growth to 3.6% for this year, a steep decline from the 4.4% growth predicted in January. This highlights how much the war is slowing the global economy.

In the EU, we expect economic activity will slow down, but it will not stall.

The Commission will present its Spring forecast on May 16th, offering a country by country analysis.

Of course, the impact on Ukraine is most pronounced.

The IMF expects the country’s economy could shrink by as much as 35%. According to the World Bank, it could be 45%.

Within the EU, the IMF predicts that the Baltics and other Member States bordering Russia, Belarus or Ukraine will be the worst affected. At the same time, forecasts suggest that the Baltic countries are more resilient than in the past, and the impact on Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania will be similar to the Eurozone average.

So what we see is that EU countries most affected by sanctions are also the most vigorous supporters of Ukraine and strong sanctions.

It is because they know, from their own historic experience, that freedom has a cost. And they are ready to pay that cost.

If we look specifically at the impact of sanctions, no country will suffer as much as Russia.

Our preliminary assessment shows that the fall in GDP is estimated to be 46 times higher for Russia than for the EU in the medium term. Here, I am talking particularly on the impact of sanctions.

But one thing is for sure – we will continue to operate in high uncertainty and geopolitical volatility.

Decisions-makers will have to learn how to adapt.

Closer transatlantic ties and a renewed commitment to providing shared global leadership are critically important.

We succeeded in removing a number of trade irritants, notably grounding the Airbus-Boeing dispute and finding an interim solution on EU steel and aluminium exports to the U.S.

We agreed on a new global corporate tax architecture.

And we created new, forward-looking ways to cooperate, most notably by setting up the new Trade and Technology Council. The next TTC meeting takes place in France on May 16th.

Our cooperation under the TTC has already delivered concrete results, and paved the way for more efficient cooperation with the U.S. overall.

For example, the coordinated transatlantic response to Russia’s unprovoked military invasion of Ukraine would not have been as fast and smooth without the trust and good working relations built by the TTC.

We want to use the upcoming meeting to send clear signals, namely that:

We are determined to defend human rights and democratic values;

We are committed to increasing the resilience of our supply chains; and

We intend to facilitate bilateral trade and investment through deeper transatlantic cooperation, both bilaterally and through joint leadership at multilateral level.

Of course, I cannot disclose the outcomes of the TTC at this stage, but I can say that a lot of work has been done on supply chains, also focusing on specific sensitive sectors.

Second, as I said before, the war has influenced the TTC’s work, notably by making it a bigger priority to fight against Russia disinformation, and building a reliable and safe digital infrastructure.

Third, on the trade side, we are exploring tools that would avoid further trade irritants and barriers.

We are notably aiming for better cooperation on export controls to deal with sensitive and dual use technologies.

Let me turn next to the question of global supply chains. The last two years showed how sensitive global markets are to supply and demand imbalances in the pandemic recovery phase.

We have seen significant challenges in relation to meeting EU demand at competitive prices in sectors such as semiconductors, raw and construction materials, to start with steel and wood.

I see two main sources of pressure: as discussed, the war in Ukraine, but also China’s strict COVID-19 response, following numerous outbreaks of the Omicron variant in early 2022.

This has led to full or partial lock-downs in 45 cities – accounting for 40% of China’s GDP. This is disruption on a major scale.

In 2021, Russia remained the second largest gas and third largest oil producer globally. Correspondingly, the war leads to increases in energy and food prices.

To address these emergencies, the Commission is currently working on the RepowerEU proposal, to speed up making Europe independent from Russian fossil fuels.

We also published an important communication on global food security. Access to grains, especially wheat, has become a vital issue in many countries.

Let me state it loudly and clearly: Russia bears the sole responsibility for the current surge in commodity prices.

We see it already now.

Russia’s ruthless behaviour in blocking Ukrainian wheat exports from ports, stealing wheat from Ukraine, preventing sowing or even bombing warehouses hosting grain is simply criminal.

Russia’s war has also shown that the EU relies on Russia for supplies of a number of critical inputs – such as steel products, critical raw materials or fertilisers.

Once these are affected by trade disruptions, an increase in global prices for these products is inevitable.

Nevertheless, international supply chains continue to be an essential tool to sustain our industrial output.

Integration into global networks has improved EU competitiveness due to various factors including a wider market access, as well as the possibility of accessing new suppliers.

The key to improved resilience is supply diversification. As I mentioned earlier, further development of trade relations with trusted partners will play a key role here.

Of course, much of the responsibility for improved resilience of supply chains lies with industry itself.

So, I call on you to redouble your efforts to improve resilience, notably through supply diversification.

We will in turn support industry in a smart and targeted manner to remain competitive and innovative.

We will develop trading relationships with key partners, and we will not hesitate to enforce rules to ensure fair trade.

I will conclude here, ladies and gentlemen. I look forward to your questions and to a good discussion. Thank you very much.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/commissioners/2019-2024/dombrovskis/announcements/speech-executive-vice-president-valdis-domrovskis-american-chamber-commerce-latvia_en]

Comecon

文件 DPAEUM0020220510ei570000b


General News
He was a former KGB agent, operating behind the Iron Curtain in the final throes...
4562 字
2022 年 5 月 28 日
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
A014
英文
Copyright 2022 NZME Publishing Ltd.
He was a former KGB agent, operating behind the Iron Curtain in the final throes of the Cold War. But Boris Karpichkov quarrelled with his Moscow spymasters and switched sides, selling secrets against the Russian state, implicating politicians, wealthy elite and mafia bosses. Fearing for his life, he fled and in 2006 arrived in Auckland on a forged passport. New Zealand spy bosses knew he was here — but who was tailing him? And did foreign hitmen attempt to assassinate him in Queen St? Kurt Bayer reports on the mystery of a spy who came in from the cold.

A MOST WANTED MAN

Boris Karpichkov was tired. The former KGB spy’s hand trembled placing the key in the lock of his Auckland bolthole. White with fatigue, Karpichkov just wanted to rest. The watchers had been out again. Teams on foot and by car, he saw them everywhere. His notebook was scrawled with times, dates, registration plates, the same cars, the same shadowy figures.

Maybe he was being paranoid. It felt more than the “obligatory paranoia”, as it was known in his murky trade. And he had foundations for feeling persecuted. Although he hadn’t been an active spy for some years, it was something he couldn’t turn off. The instincts. Seeing what everyone else misses.

Karpichkov entered his poky flat and thought of his wife back in London. He missed her. What would she make of him now, slumping in a chair, skin and bones. He had lost 25kg in just a few months. He was falling apart.

Waiting for the kettle to boil, something wasn’t right. He was alert again. The internal radar was pinging. Yes, it was over the floor, directly behind the entrance door. A strange, dark-violet crystal-like substance. He sniffed the carpet cautiously . . . it emitted a nasty chemical smell.

Puzzled, Karpichkov thought maybe a cleaner had splashed washing liquid attending to the communal corridor. He used cloths to try and wipe the dark crystals, which shone in the sunlight, from the carpet.

The defector took a shower. While washing his face, he suddenly started to feel an extreme burning in his eyes. He tried rinsing them but they only became more swollen and irritated.

Eventually his eyes returned to normal but that night he suffered severe dizziness, accompanied by pain in his internal organs. It felt like his face and body was on fire.

In the morning, feeling deep-fried, eyes still watering, he was sure.

They were trying to kill him.

THE PERFECT SPY

Stalinist hardliners were purging Community Party officials branded with Latvian nationalism when Boris Karpichkov was born in the historical capital of Riga on February 12, 1959.

Life was grey, tough, and grim growing up behind the Iron Curtain. The constant threat of nuclear war with the Americans loomed large and Karpichkov, of Russian ancestry, was committed to the Soviet cause under Leonid Brezhnev’s hard-line rule.

After finishing secondary school in 1976, he spent five years at Riga Polytechnic Institute, graduating with a degree in mechanical engineering.

For three years, the bright and diligent Karpichkov worked at a manufacturing plant producing microchips and other electronic devices. Every day was the same and he thought this would be his life. That was when the spooks came knocking.

It was July 1984. US President Ronald Reagan was pushing the “Star Wars programme” missile defence system and the Soviets were boycotting the Olympic Games in Los Angeles.

Karpichkov didn’t need much convincing. He was recruited as an active staff field operative officer of the Central Apparatus of the Latvian KGB — the main state security services of the USSR, which then included his motherland, Latvia.

In the summer of 1989, with feelings that the Cold War was finally beginning to thaw across Eastern Europe, Karpichkov was transferred into another branch of the Latvian KGB, working for the Second Department. His role was to train and instruct insiders to infiltrate American intelligence — particularly the main enemy, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

One of his espionage targets, Karpichkov says in documents obtained by the Herald, was John Sipher — an undercover CIA officer operating in the region at the time.

“Sipher was one of the prime subjects of such spy-game field operations which I operated, and was someone whom I directly targeted at that time,” says Karpichkov.

The Herald tracked down Sipher. Now living in the Washington DC area, he retired from the agency in 2014 after a distinguished 28-year career.

Sipher doesn’t recall the name Karpichkov. When told he had been directly mentioned as a top target in the early 1990s, he found it “kinda creepy and odd”. “It sounds real or plausible to me,” says Sipher. “It was a time when the Russians were running lots of spy games against us. The Soviet Union was starting to fall apart and we had a lot of what we called Russian walk-ins or volunteers, and some came from the Baltic areas. The Russian services sometimes sent people in to see if we’ll believe they are real and accept them and run them as double-agents or something. It’s a game intelligence services play. So I wouldn’t be surprised if that is what [Karpichkov] is talking about.”

Karpichkov quickly rose through the ranks and by 1991, with Latvia regaining independence, he had become its spy-ring leader for Russia, feeding intel back to Moscow, and spreading disinformation against top political figures of the new Latvian state who had been backed into power by the Americans.

Death threats from underworld thugs were routine. And his job got messier.

Around 1993, his superiors, now the FSB (Federal Security Service) of Russia, ordered him to carry out a hit. The targets: an ex-Latvian KGB officer and one of his secret informants. They were considered treasonous and had threatened to expose Karpichkov as a Russian spy. The FSB handlers suggested using some sort of “immaculate working substance” which he took to mean a sophisticated poison. Karpichkov refused.

“I told my bosses that I would resolve the problem of my potential exposure as their spy in Latvia in a peaceful manner, without killing anyone and without damaging my position as their top spy in there,” he says.

His bosses were unimpressed. They warned that if he was exposed, he would face being “liquidated” himself. Karpichkov took the threats seriously.

He continued working undercover and although he was told his work was frequently reported directly to Russian President Boris Yeltsin, he was becoming disenchanted with the FSB and what he thought they stood for. He started questioning his work and just what Russia was doing in his homeland.

“My beliefs as to the reality and values of the ‘democratic’ changes in Russia were mistaken,” Karpichkov says, looking back.

With Russia bombing Chechnya’s capital, Grozny, in early 1995, he couldn’t go on. He told his FSB spymasters he was quitting. After they tried to talk him round, and failed, the apparatus’ sights zeroed in on him.

In April 1995, Karpichkov was arrested in Riga for possession of a firearm. After seven days inside a maximum-security prison, and two intense interrogations, he was released. It was a warning.

Soon afterwards, Latvian Security Police (LSP) officers came with an offer. They wanted dirt on links between crime figures and corrupt state officials and politicians. Knowing that the FSB had orchestrated his arrest, he agreed.

Now, Karpichkov was a double agent. He uncovered intelligence that implicated a number of senior politicians in corruption and bribery, including a former prime minister. He also tipped French intelligence off to a liquor smuggling ring.

His work didn’t go unnoticed.

In June 1996, he was in serious trouble. He was arrested again — this time on allegations that he had embezzled hundreds of thousands from collapsed Latvian commercial bank, Olympia. Later, he spent two months inside the infamous Moscow maximum-security prison, Matrosskaya Tishina, or Sailor’s Silence, without charge. None of his family knew where he was. He simply vanished. He feared for his life — and for his wife and two sons.

For the next two years, Karpichkov played a high-stakes game of cat and mouse. Feeling deceived and betrayed, he funnelled intelligence linking Russian organised crime and its security services to the West, including, he says, the CIA, meeting their agents in secret rendezvous across Europe, in exchange for witness protection assurances.

Finally, in May 1998, with risks escalating, Karpichkov made a run for it with his wife on a forged Latvian passport.

Britain seemed the easiest place to reach without detection, and they made it by ferry to Stockholm, before travelling to Gothenburg, and finally, another ferry to the English port of Harwich. Karpichkov had finally made it in from the cold. At least, that’s what he hoped.

CALL FOR THE DEAD

It was a nervy trans-global flight. Although Karpichkov had gone to extreme lengths to create a convincing operative legend, posing as a London-based academic and expert in the field of studying Russian organised crime activities worldwide, he still suspected trouble at the border.

The forged Republic of Lithuania passport had cost him £2200. The photo was him but the identity wasn’t: Vladimir Abramov. He never found out who the real Abramov was.

Ready with a faked invitation from a renowned Auckland professor in criminology — a real person with whom he had never corresponded — Karpichkov sailed through New Zealand immigration. Nobody looked twice at his papers. In fact, border security even helped carry his heavy suitcase, filled with hundreds of documents relating to his KGB secrets, to the taxi rank.

It was June 18, 2006. For the previous eight years, Karpichkov had been living in Britain and making a nuisance of himself. Instead of lying low, he had made a series of public leaks to Latvian media that exposed organised Russian crime and their inter-connections with financial and business elites, along with corrupt state officials. Britain’s domestic spy agency MI5, Karpichkov says, advised that he needed to go: they couldn’t assure his safety.

The day after he arrived in New Zealand, he walked into a lawyer’s downtown Auckland office and began his bid for political asylum. He had unsuccessfully sought refuge in the UK and batted away Latvia’s first extradition request. He hoped New Zealand would be more welcoming.

Karpichkov had, however, not flown in under the radar. The New Zealand Security Intelligence Service (SIS) knew they had an ex-Russian KGB agent in their midst.

Kiwi espionage bosses probably got a heads-up from Britain’s foreign intelligence service, MI6, believes former NZSIS intelligence officer Dr Rhys Ball, who left the spook world in 2001.

“You would expect your counterparts to let you know that someone might be heading your way, just as a courtesy call, but also to give you an assessment of the potential risk or threat that they may pose, or whether they were being protected by those agencies,” he says.

Within a fortnight of landing in Auckland, Karpichkov surrendered his passport to immigration authorities and revealed it was fake. Two months later, however, it was returned to him — complete with a six-month work permit stuck inside. It was under the alias, Vladimir Abramov.

Bemused, but glad to be making progress, he moved from a noisy flat above a nightclub to Cambridge Apartments on Anzac Ave and concentrated on his asylum application.

It was a quiet, isolated life. He avoided crowds, bars and restaurants, and had no friends. He missed his family and emailed home daily. Advised by his lawyer that it would help his case, he handed immigration officials a nine-page dossier on “corrupted diplomatic personnel” inside the New Zealand Embassy in Moscow, alleging New Zealand entry visas were being issued in exchange for cash bribes.

On the morning of November 20, 2006, after his now ritualistic daily internet cafe visit, the most stunning aspect of Karpichkov’s remarkable story is said to have happened.

Wandering Auckland’s bustling Queen St, stopping to gaze in shop windows and check if he was still being tailed, Karpichkov says he was suddenly attacked by a beggar. The vagrant was trying for Karpichkov’s bag, which contained his laptop. They struggled. The ex-spy was kicked before his attacker shaped as if to punch his face. But instead of being struck, there was “some kind of dust-like substance coming out of his hand towards my face”. The beggar, unable to grab the bag, gave up and walked away calmly.

Karpichkov staggered on. After 50m-200m, he suddenly felt dizzy and almost lost consciousness. “The earth started spinning around under my feet very quickly, as if I was heavily drunk, and vertigo developed.”

Sweating, he sat and tried to compose himself. His upper body was sore. Around 20 minutes later, shaken and dazed, Karpichkov managed to walk home. He typed a letter to his lawyer describing the attack but that night went downhill again.

Cold, feverish, shivering, acute upset stomach.

“I recall I felt myself completely squeezed and empty from inside,” he says.

The symptoms persisted for the next few days, but Karpichkov was more concerned about the strange men watching his every move. His lawyer warned him off reporting the assault to police, fearing it could affect his political asylum claim.

But a strange red rash soon spread across his chest. The dizzy spells returned. He started rapidly losing weight — between 25kg-30kg over the next two months. His body hair was falling out. Karpichkov was growing increasingly concerned, and although a GP visit that week offered no explanations, the old spy started to suspect he had been poisoned.

Three days after the Queen St incident, former Russian intelligence officer Alexander Litvinenko, who had defected to the West, died in hospital in England. His cup of tea had been poisoned with the incredibly rare and untraceable radioactive compound polonium-210 by two Russian agents during a clandestine meeting at the Pine Bar of the upmarket Millennium Hotel in the heart of London’s Mayfair on November 1, 2006 — nearly three weeks before Karpichkov says he was attacked.

On his deathbed, Litvinenko, who worked with MI6 and Spanish intelligence to probe Russian mafia links in Spain, accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of ordering his hit.

Karpichkov’s asylum application was rejected on December 20, 2006. He immediately appealed the decision. He started getting online death threats about him “quietly dying” and over the Christmas holidays was sure he spotted a former Latvian KGB colleague standing at a ticket kiosk near Auckland Harbour.

His paranoia was peaking. The human surveillance squad continued to stalk his everyday movements. Then, there was what he calls the “second alleged poisoning attempt on my life”, with the strange crystals on his apartment’s carpet.

On March 16, 2007, Karpichkov couldn’t take any more. He walked into Auckland City Hospital complaining of chest and groin pains, weight loss, a metallic taste in his mouth, hair loss, and fevers.

“No obvious cause for the pain found,” says the clinician’s signed notes, obtained by the Herald.

A later medical investigation at St Mary Hospital in London — the same unit where Litvinenko was initially treated — concluded he might have suffered “potential toxic exposure in November 2006 and March 2007” but found no evidence of ongoing toxicological effects or symptoms.

In the September 2020 Westminster Magistrates Court ruling in his extradition case, the presiding judge mentioned his poisoning claims and concluded: “I accept that the evidence that he was poisoned is not strong but remains a possibility that sits in the background of this case.”

Former intelligence officers spoken to by the Herald took a similar view: while it sounds highly improbable that a foreign superpower staged a poison attack on New Zealand soil, it could have been possible.

“It’s absolutely in the realm of possibility,” says Dr Paul G. Buchanan, a former intelligence analyst who worked for the CIA in Latin America. “He had a lot of secrets, information about a lot of people. And given that part of the world had a lot of corruption in the 1990s as people took advantage of the collapse of the Soviet empire, maybe he’s got dirt on people who are now legit?”

The Litvinenko assassination and attempted hit on Sergei Skripal, a former Russian military officer and double agent for British intelligence, and his daughter Yulia in the English cathedral city of Salisbury, showed, says Ball, what Russia is capable of.

“If they can do it in the UK, they can do it anywhere,” says Ball, now senior lecturer at Massey University’s Centre for Defence and Security Studies.

“The Russians have this thing of getting these defectors because they need to send a message to other intelligence officers that becoming a traitor is not an option, and if you do it, be prepared for the consequences. It’s signalling to anyone else who might be contemplating working for the British or the Americans or anyone else, no matter how long it takes, or where you are, we’ll get you.”

Karpichkov’s old nemesis Sipher also believes, “as strange as it sounds, it sounds plausible”.

“It’s a way for the leadership and Putin, who grew up in the KGB, to send a signal to anybody who works for the security services, that if you are a traitor, they will find you and kill you at some point,” Sipher says. “You’re never safe.”

Rouben Azizian, director of Massey University’s Centre for Defence and Security Studies, served in the Soviet Union and Russia’s foreign ministry for more than 20 years before leaving in the early 1990s.

Karpichkov’s claims of knowledge linking organised crime to the FSB, and therefore the business activities of Russia’s oligarchs, would be more dangerous than revealing secrets about the intelligence service’s inner-workings and activities, Azizian says.

And if he was in the business of identifying and sharing details about those figures, that would be a “very scary, risky job” and could well result in him being targeted.

“These guys not only have the wealth and money to subsidise assassinations, they also know how to do that. They can do these kinds of things anywhere.”

THE LOOKING

GLASS WAR

The watchers were back. Mysterious men parked down the street. Karpichkov took notes and photographs.

In all, there were more than a dozen vehicles that the veteran Latvian agent recorded as following him. A search of number plates via public records added to the mystery. They were all registered to people who were either not on the electoral roll or in the phone book, and which led to physical addresses that didn’t exist, or Post Office boxes.

Men in suits walked behind him, at a distance. But not far enough away not to be noticed. Karpichkov, a spy to his bones, sneered at their “clumsy, amateur” surveillance attempts.

But it was grinding him down. He was out of the spy game and just wanted a quiet life. He did not know who the agents were but assumed they were NZSIS.

By winter 2007, he’d had enough. Late morning, July 11, as he returned to Cambridge Apartments and saw a familiar, blue undercover car, he sighed. Karpichkov approached the vehicle and motioned for the watcher wind down his window.

“Please give me best regards to your shift chief — I am not going to leave my apartment for the rest of the day,” he said, while clicking a photo.

The bold action sparked a furious response. The watcher leapt from the car and lunged at Karpichkov, yelling, “I will smash your f***ing phone against your f***ing head!”

The assault stopped as quick as it had started and the watcher sped off.

Fearing his knowledge of the covert ops was blown, and worried that he could be “gunned down, or killed using any other way”, Karpichkov walked to the central Auckland police station and made an assault complaint. He gave the car’s number plate and a description of his assailant.

What happened next is one of the more intriguing aspects of Karpichkov’s tale.

A senior member of the Diplomatic Protection Squad was assigned to investigate what looked like, on the face of it, a standard common assault.

At first, the police officer tried to play down the assault, Karpichkov says. But in a later telephone conversation, which the ex-KGB agent secretly recorded, the detective said his assailant had been identified and was apologetic for losing his temper.

“He is not with the SIS but he was with a surveillance group,” the police officer reveals during the taped conversation, adding that Karpichkov was not the target. Just who was the intended mark was unclear. The man was a police officer and would be disciplined internally. Police said they didn’t know who was tailing Karpichkov but said maybe it was the SIS.

A Herald request under the Official Information Act to the police this year for any information on file relating to Karpichkov was withheld on two grounds: privacy and maintenance of the law, including the prevention, investigation, and detection of offences.

“Police consider the interests requiring protection by withholding the information are not outweighed by any public interest in release of the information,” says the OIA response.

The NZSIS similarly does not usually comment on individuals, citing security reasons. But after a separate Herald OIA request, it confirmed some aspects of the Karpichkov case.

Through former Director-General of Security, Dr Warren Tucker, it confirmed the NZSIS knew Karpichkov was in New Zealand in 2008 and had been “aware of his background as a KGB officer”. But it denied having him under surveillance.

New Zealand’s other intelligence agency, the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) gave a classic spy’s response by saying it could “neither confirm nor deny” whether it held any information about Karpichkov.

“To do so would be likely to prejudice the interest protected by section 6(a) of the OIA, namely the security or defence of New Zealand or the international relations of the Government of New Zealand,” it told the Herald.

Ball says NZSIS, or “The Service” as he calls it, isn’t the only agency in New Zealand with surveillance capabilities.

He suspects that Karpichkov could have unwittingly stumbled across an ongoing police surveillance job.

“Any trained intelligence officer is surveillance-sensitive and their sets of skills are never forgotten and become second nature. And so you’ve got a former Soviet intelligence officer who has obviously been playing a number of sides over the years . . . who is obviously paranoid [and] going to see things as well.”

There was a short lull after the street altercation but then the surveillance teams resurfaced. If anything, it became more intense, Karpichkov says. A black Mercedes van with dark-tinted windows sat outside his apartment. “I became extremely concerned and alarmed by this vehicle, as I did not know what should and can I expect next,” he says.

“From my own previous KGB special training and my personal experience, I was well aware that foot surveillance is always used, along with other purposes, when there is an unofficial order — sanction — someone to be taken out of circulation, to be exterminated, killed extra-judicially and when murder would be made looking like some natural incident.”

Frustrated New Zealand didn’t appear to want to protect him, — and instead of feeling safe from Russia on the other side of the world, while missing his family back in London, his health declining — he decided he had no choice but to return to Britain.

Using the same forged Lithuanian passport, under the Abramov alias, Karpichkov booked an Air New Zealand flight to Hong Kong. His final destination was Heathrow. As quietly and mysteriously as he slipped into the country, he had slipped out.

THE SECRET PILGRIM

The death threats never stopped.

“Traitors like you have no place on earth. Death is on the way. You are already a half-corpse,” said the latest letter, in January this year.

Sealed in a bubble-wrap envelope, it was addressed to Vadim Petrovich Kravchenko — a false name Karpichkov operated under for the Latvian KGB in the early 1990s. Only his ex-spymasters would know that name. The sender’s address was a local graveyard.

He became ill soon after opening it. The package was passed to a counter terrorist police unit Karpichkov says identified traces of mercury.

The 63-year-old espionage old hand is now living with his wife in a two-bedroom London flat and still fearing for his life. He believes it’s only a matter of time. The extradition judgement that ruled in his favour also concluded he is a “threat to the Russian intelligence services”.

The judge found “evidence to support Mr Karpichkov’s claims he has dangerous enemies in Russia who would wish for his silence” and that the death threats should be considered credible and serious.

“I really feel myself as ‘dead man walking’,” he tells the Herald via email. He refuses to use phones. “Like the convict sentenced to wait sitting on a death row who expects to be executed every single day and, particularly, night — the time when I am exceptionally vulnerable and unable absolutely to protect myself with my bare hands.”

Karpichkov feels let down by the British authorities, who have failed to protect him and other Russian dissidents, defectors, and critics.

The UK’s National Crime Agency (NCA) put his life at greater risk when they revealed in 2018 — during Latvia’s unsuccessful extradition proceedings — his British alias and address.

And he doesn’t help himself by speaking out against Putin and, most recently, the invasion of Ukraine. In January as Russian troops started to mobilise, Karpichkov told the Sun newspaper that the Western powers wouldn’t step in.

Former KGB major Yuri Shvets, a former colleague of murdered defector Litvenenko, puts the risk of Karpichkov being assassinated — even after all these years — as “high with probability of risk as very likely”.

“I believe the Russians badly want to silence him, and it appears this might be more important for them than it was to silence Litvinenko or Skripal,” Shvets said during Karpichkov’s extradition hearing.

“The Russians never tried to get Litvinenko or Skripal extradited, while in Mr Karpichkov [sic] case they have done two failed attempts. For me, this is a clear indication that the Russians want to silence Mr Karpichkov.”

Karpichkov hasn’t given up hope of returning to New Zealand. But he still takes issue with 2018 comments by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and then Foreign Minister Winston Peters that he had failed to provide any evidence of his Queen St poisoning.

He says he will continue to make the world aware that Russian security services are trying to kill him.

If they ever do, Karpichkov says it will result in Putin paying a high political price. “I am just now trying to survive, to stay alive as much [as] it would be possible. I live in constant fear thinking every day will be my last.”

NZME Publishing Ltd.

文件 NZHLD00020220527ei5s0001z


Decisions on new sanctions take a while, because they affect not only Russia but also ourselves - Kalnina-Lukasevica
Anastasija Tetarenko
458 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 07:53 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, May 31 (LETA) - Decisions on new sanctions take a while, as they affect not only Russia but also ourselves, Zanda Kalnina-Lukasevica (New Unity), Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, admitted in an interview with Latvian Radio.

She acknowledged that the decisions made last night was important, because it had led to decisions that no one believed in March. In addition, the decision taken last night on the oil embargo was not the only decision - a decision has also been made to impose sanctions on Russia's largest bank, Sberbank, the Russian Orthodox Church and its patriarch Kirill, Russian military officials, as well as three media channels. Kalnina-Lukasevica emphasized that this is necessary to stop the Russian war machine.

According to the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the possibilities of sanctions have certainly not been exhausted yet, and decisions have now have to be made which are the most obvious and can have the fastest impact on Russia. There are still opportunities to sanction companies, officials, the energy sector, etc.

Kalnina-Lukasevica believes that the decisions taken confirm the common understanding of European countries on values, as they are already in a situation where sanctions not only affect the Russian economy, but also have a severe impact on the economies of European countries.

"Understandably, decisions take time - they are not easy decisions, because they affect us as well, so it quite a long time to make a decision," added the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

As reported, EU leaders on Monday backed a ban on most Russian oil imports, after a compromise deal with Hungary to punish Moscow for the war in Ukraine.

The 27-nation bloc has spent weeks haggling over a proposed total embargo on Russian oil but came up against stubborn resistance from Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban.

EU leaders meeting in Brussels hatched a compromise deal to exempt deliveries arriving in Europe by pipeline from the ban, after Budapest warned halting supplies would wreck its economy.

"Agreement to ban export of Russian oil to the EU. This immediately covers more than two thirds of oil imports from Russia, cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine," European Council chief Charles Michel tweeted during the summit. "Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war."

The head of the EU's executive, Ursula von der Leyen, said the move "will effectively cut around 90 percent of oil imports from Russia to the EU by the end of the year" as Germany and Poland had committed to renounce deliveries via a pipeline to their territory.

39333341343930362D353531442D3441

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220531ei5v000xd


Gas embargo remains a contingency sanction if Russian aggression escalates even more - expert
Inese Trenča
552 字
2022 年 6 月 1 日 10:52 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, June 1 (LETA) - A gas embargo remains a contingency sanction if Russian aggression escalates even more, according to Aldis Austers, a researcher at the European Policy Research Institute, commenting to LETA about the latest rounds of EU sanctions against Russia.

At a summit earlier this week, European Union (EU) member states agreed on a sixth package of sanctions that would ban more than two-thirds of Russian oil imports, but did not include oil imports via pipelines due to Hungarian objections. Sanctions were also not made in connection with Russian gas imports.

Austers noted that the partial ban on Russian oil imports is an important step forward in the area of sanctions, as evidenced by the difficult negotiations between member states for almost a month. For some members of the bloc, this is a relatively difficult step, especially for those who cannot access oil by sea.

"90 percent of the oil coming from Russia is planned to be phased out from the European market by the end of the year. This is the amount of oil that Member States receive from Russia by sea. Oil from the Druzhba pipeline is not subject to sanctions. Oil through this pipeline is transported to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria and Hungary," the researcher explained.

Speaking about the possibility of imposing sanctions on Russian gas, Austers said that he was not optimistic about the issue, given how difficult it was for member states to negotiate an embargo on Russian oil. Some countries, including Germany, have stated that they will not permit any sanctions in the gas sector. According to some analysts, Germany could relatively well survive a gas embargo, but politically the national government is not ready to impose such a ban, for fear of possible consequences for industry and the quality of life of the population.

"If the situation continues to escalate early next year, member states could talk about the remaining 10 percent embargo on Russian oil imports. But the gas embargo will not be on the bloc's agenda for some time," Austers said.

Asked why the negotiations on the sixth sanctions package were so difficult, the researcher pointed out that, first of all, they are also economic factors related to countries' desire to avoid severe economic shocks.

There are also political factors, such as Hungary's relations with the European Commission and other Member States, due to the anti-democratic behavior of the Hungarian Government. Hungary's relations with Ukraine have also not been very successful. Hungarians have less sympathy for Ukraine, unlike the Baltic states and Poland.

Speaking about what was left in the EU's arsenal to target Russia, Austers said there was a possibility of imposing sanctions on the immediate family of Russian President Vladimir Putin, some of whom are still unsanctioned. The gas embargo also remains in question, but something shocking needs to happen for EU Member States to agree on a Russian gas embargo.

"The strategic side must also be understood. If the EU uses all possible sanctions at once, they will immediately lose the deterrent effect. Therefore, sanctions are being implemented gradually to try to deter the aggressor and leave something important in reserve, such as gas," he said.

43304334443342352D383039462D3442

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220601ei61001md


Highlights: Latvian Media 6 Jun 22
793 字
2022 年 6 月 6 日 11:51 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The EU sanctions against Russia, allegations of Western deal plans over Ukraine, and giving up Russian oil were among the main topics covered by Latvian newspapers and websites on 4-6 June 2022.

Russian sanctions

On TV24's programme Globuss, former EU Development Commissioner Andris Piebalgs said that Russia was very embarrassed that the EU was able to reach an agreement and the 6th sanctions package was adopted, which should work and would be the most effective so far. He noted that this would also affect the internal market of Russia and that Russia would lose a lot of money because it would not be able to sell the same volumes of resources at the same price to India or China. Piebalgs concluded that the unity of EU member states was much greater than could have been expected, as each country had its problems and any sanction had different effects in different places. However, Piebalgs doubted whether the EU would be able to adopt a 7th package of sanctions, as Hungary had caused a lot of unrest before the 6th package was adopted. (Latvijas Avize, 6 June)

In the online magazine Satori, Maris Zanders in his article "If Putin dies tomorrow, will the war end the day after?" recommends less speculation about the health of the Russian president, as it shows a lack of understanding of how totalitarian systems function. He calls for practical actions, first of all, to give Ukraine maximum support in terms of military equipment, when the operation of the weapons supplied would affect the morale of Russian soldiers. Secondly, to strengthen the technology-related part of the sanctions. "It seems important to me that Russia is so technologically weakened that it is unable to pose a serious threat to other countries," says Zanders. (Satori, 6 June)

Alleged Western deals for Ukraine

Arnis Kluinis concludes in Neatkariga that Russian propagandists are gloating over French and German attempts to buy peace in Europe from Russia in return for Ukrainian territory, just as England and France bought peace from Germany in 1938 with Czechoslovak territory. Although the composition of the countries has changed, the policy of the Munich Agreement has not changed, the columnist says, as Germany has been replaced by Russia, which France and Italy are still trying to appease, and England has been replaced by Germany, which has promised Russia part of the Ukrainian territory. Putin will be allowed to keep the occupied 20% of Ukraine in exchange for a cessation of hostilities, together with a non-binding promise to start peace talks with Ukraine and an even more non-binding promise not to resume the war once the Russian army has recovered from the losses it has suffered in Ukraine, Kluinis expands. (Neatkariga, 5 June)

UN helpless over Ukraine - pundit

Pundit Andis Kudors in his article "UN impotence - a green light for Russian crimes in Ukraine" on the portal Delfi insists that there is an urgent need to reform the UN Security Council because its existence in its current form leads to disappointment in achieving justice in international relations and breeds hypocrisy. The reason for the impotence of the UN Security Council is its structure - the number of permanent and non-permanent members, as well as the procedure for granting and exercising the veto, he argues. It should also be established that the motivated abstention of a permanent member - who is not herself a party to the conflict - in a decision does not automatically mean that the decision is not taken, suggests Kudors. (Delfi, 6 June)

Giving up Russian oil

Armands Beizikis, chairman of the board of Neste Latvija, explaining to the daily Latvijas Avize how the fuel market will be affected by the withdrawal from Russian oil, says that "the benefits are few, the consequences unpleasant". He admits that until recently Latvia sold petrol and diesel made from Russian oil, as for example last year Latvia received 30% of fuel from the Neste oil refinery in Porvo, 60% from the PKN Orlen refinery in Lithuania's Mazeikiai and another 10% from Russian refineries that replaced the fuel previously received from Belarusian refineries that could not be bought because of the sanctions against Belarus. All of it was the fuel that was mostly produced by refining Russian oil, adds Beizikis. He acknowledges that with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, oil refiners switched very quickly - Neste stopped using Russian oil at the beginning of March; suppliers were found in the North Sea region and now, when Latvians fill up at a Neste station, they are filling up with petrol or diesel made from North Sea oil produced at the Neste plant in Finland. (Latvijas Avize, 5 June)

Source: BBC Monitoring 6 Jun 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220606ei66000dx


Latvian official calls for granting Ukraine EU candidate status
473 字
2022 年 6 月 10 日 15:21 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
Text of report in English by Latvian news agency LETA on 10 June

Riga, 10 June: This week, the State Secretary of the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Andris Pelss, took part in the meeting of the State Secretaries and Directors General of the European Union's Ministries of Foreign Affairs in Prague.

The meeting was chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Miloslav Stasek. The Member State participants discussed current challenges in foreign policy and the EU 's security and defense policy, as well as further support for Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry informed LETA.

''Ukraine must win this war and we must collectively support Ukraine, which is currently fighting not only for its country but for the entire Europe,'' Pelss underlined.

In the context of Ukraine becoming a candidate for EU membership, the State Secretary noted that granting the status of an EU candidate country to Ukraine is not only a significant step but also a step that would promote Ukraine's recovery.

The Member States agreed that Russia's international isolation must continue, including through the EU 's sanction policy. They also had a common understanding of the need for Europe to work together and seek solutions and answers to global challenges, for instance, in the field of food and energy security.

Latvia, like other EU Member States, underlined the importance of cooperation between the EU and the United States and the necessity of strengthening the EU-NATO cooperation.

During the meeting, the Czech Republic as the next country taking over the presidency of the Council of the EU presented an outline of its priorities while pointing out that, in view of the EU 's intention to end dependence on Russia's energy resources, intensive work is expected to take place on matters related to EU energy security and the impact of the rising energy prices on society. The Czech Presidency is also planning to work on the following topics: strengthening Europe's defense and economic resilience; the process of the Western Balkans's accession to the EU; consolidating the digital single market; and the resilience of democratic institutions.

The Member States discussed updates on the work of the European External Action Service with its Secretary General, Stefano Sannino .

As part of his working visit, Pelss had bilateral meetings with the Czech Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Martin Povejsil, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for European Issues, Ales Chmelar, and the Deputy Minister for European Affairs at the Office of the Government, Marek Havrda. The topics discussed were the priorities of the Czech Presidency, the EU 's current foreign and security policy issues, and bilateral relations between Latvia and the Czech Republic.

Source: LETA website, Riga, in English 1516 gmt 10 Jun 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220610ei6a002mh


State Secretaries of EU Foreign Ministries discuss current foreign policy developments and underline the importance of collective support for Ukraine
Preses relīze
499 字
2022 年 6 月 10 日 15:01 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
June 10, 2022

The following is a press release:

On 9 and10 June 2022, the State Secretary of the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Andris Pelšs, took part in the meeting of the State Secretaries and Directors General of the European Union’s Ministries of Foreign Affairs in Prague, the Czech Republic. The meeting was chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Miloslav Stašek. The Member State participants discussed current challenges in foreign policy and the EU ’s security and defence policy, as well as further support for Ukraine.

Ukraine must win this war and we must collectively support Ukraine, which is currently fighting not only for its country but for the entire Europe, Andris Pelšs underlined. In the context of Ukraine becoming a candidate for EU membership, the State Secretary noted that granting the status of an EU candidate country to Ukraine is not only a significant step but also a step that would promote Ukraine’s recovery. The Member States agreed that Russia’s international isolation must continue, including through the EU ’s sanction policy. They also had a common understanding of the need for Europe to work together and seek solutions and answers to global challenges, for instance, in the field of food and energy security. Latvia, like other EU Member States, underlined the importance of cooperation between the EU and the United States of America and the necessity of strengthening the EU-NATO cooperation.

During the meeting, the Czech Republic as the next country taking over the presidency of the Council of the EU presented an outline of its priorities while pointing out that, in view of the EU ’s intention to end dependence on Russia’s energy resources, intensive work is expected to take place on matters related to EU energy security and the impact of the rising energy prices on society. The Czech Presidency is also planning to work on the following topics: strengthening Europe’s defence and economic resilience; the process of the Western Balkans’s accession to the EU; consolidating the digital single market; and the resilience of democratic institutions.

The Member States discussed updates on the work of the European External Action Service with its Secretary General, Stefano Sannino .

As part of his working visit, Andris Pelšs had bilateral meetings with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Martin Povejšil, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for European Issues, Aleš Chmelař, and the Deputy Minister for European Affairs at the Office of the Government, Marek Havrda. The topics discussed were the priorities of the Czech Presidency, the EU ’s current foreign and security policy issues, and bilateral relations between Latvia and the Czech Republic.

Press Contacts:

Communications Group

Phone: (+371) 67016 272

Fax: (+371) 67828 121

Email: media@mfa.gov.lv

Website: www.mfa.gov.lv/en[http://www.mfa.gov.lv/en]

46383732344335352D453636462D3441

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220610ei6a002mh


Granting Ukraine EU candidate status will facilitate the country's reconstruction - Foreign Ministry state secretary
Inese Trenča
459 字
2022 年 6 月 10 日 15:16 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, June 10 (LETA) - This week, the State Secretary of the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Andris Pelss, took part in the meeting of the State Secretaries and Directors General of the European Union’s Ministries of Foreign Affairs in Prague.

The meeting was chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Miloslav Stasek. The Member State participants discussed current challenges in foreign policy and the EU ’s security and defense policy, as well as further support for Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry informed LETA.

''Ukraine must win this war and we must collectively support Ukraine, which is currently fighting not only for its country but for the entire Europe,'' Pelss underlined.

In the context of Ukraine becoming a candidate for EU membership, the State Secretary noted that granting the status of an EU candidate country to Ukraine is not only a significant step but also a step that would promote Ukraine’s recovery.

The Member States agreed that Russia’s international isolation must continue, including through the EU ’s sanction policy. They also had a common understanding of the need for Europe to work together and seek solutions and answers to global challenges, for instance, in the field of food and energy security.

Latvia, like other EU Member States, underlined the importance of cooperation between the EU and the United States and the necessity of strengthening the EU-NATO cooperation.

During the meeting, the Czech Republic as the next country taking over the presidency of the Council of the EU presented an outline of its priorities while pointing out that, in view of the EU ’s intention to end dependence on Russia’s energy resources, intensive work is expected to take place on matters related to EU energy security and the impact of the rising energy prices on society. The Czech Presidency is also planning to work on the following topics: strengthening Europe’s defense and economic resilience; the process of the Western Balkans’s accession to the EU; consolidating the digital single market; and the resilience of democratic institutions.

The Member States discussed updates on the work of the European External Action Service with its Secretary General, Stefano Sannino .

As part of his working visit, Pelss had bilateral meetings with the Czech Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Martin Povejsil, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for European Issues, Ales Chmelar, and the Deputy Minister for European Affairs at the Office of the Government, Marek Havrda. The topics discussed were the priorities of the Czech Presidency, the EU ’s current foreign and security policy issues, and bilateral relations between Latvia and the Czech Republic.

42433442413534442D323545332D3445

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220610ei6a002p9


Hundreds of sanction breaches against Russia and Belarus in Latvia
256 字
2022 年 6 月 16 日 04:00 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The Latvian State Revenue Service (VID) has identified more than 400 cases of attempted infringement of sanctions imposed against Russia and Belarus, said Ieva Jaunzeme, director-general of the VID in an interview with LETA, a Latvian newswire, on June 15.

She said that currently more than 10 criminal proceedings have been initiated on these cases.

According to Jaunzeme, it is mainly about goods that are included in the list of sanctions and cannot be imported. This applies, for example, to household appliances worth above €300.

Jaunzeme said that the infringements are mainly related to the falsification of contracts, because there are exceptions allowing goods to be imported if there is a contract made before the imposition of sanctions. Therefore, attempts are made to falsify contracts by changing their duration.

Jaunzeme acknowledged that the number of infringements is currently declining, but "VID cannot relax yet".

When asked what are the largest infringers – Latvian companies or Russian and Belarusian suppliers – Jaunzeme explained that it was not so simple as the chain was customer, supplier, carrier, loader.

“It is not the truck driver who knows whether the goods he has are on the sanctions list or not, so the responsibility, in this case, lies with the customer and supplier, who probably hope that the cargo will not be noticed,” Jaunzeme said.

Asked how the war in Ukraine and the sanctions affected smuggling volumes, Jaunzeme acknowledged that smugglers are now finding it difficult because more controls are in place.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220616ei6g000mb


Highlights: Latvian Media 16 June 22
860 字
2022 年 6 月 16 日 11:22 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

Prospects for further Nato presence in the Baltics, a Russian MP's initiative to withdraw the recognition of the Baltic states' independence, and Russia's appeal in French politics were among the main topics covered by Latvian newspapers and websites on 15-16 June.

Decision-making in Nato

The TV3 website predicts that the Nato summit in Madrid may decide to further reinforce the defence of the Baltic region by deploying additional forces and armaments here. If all goes as planned, Latvia's Adazi base may have to be seriously expanded in the coming years. Given Russia's aggression, Nato's eastern flank should be the most defended, argues TV3. Although the reality has shown Russia to be the biggest threat, in an interview with the TV channel, Nato Assistant Secretary-General for Public Diplomacy Baiba Braze suggested that "all eggs" should not be put in one basket. Forces are deployed depending on the current security situation, analysis of threats and needs, and everything happens gradually, she said. (TV3, 15 June)

Nato presence in Baltics

The news agency Reuters, citing interviews with seven senior diplomats and leading Nato officials, says the Baltic states might not be able to achieve a larger Nato presence in the region, the public broadcaster LSM reports. The portal explains that this is partly because Nato has many other concerns at the moment. Strengthening the Baltic defence may include the deployment of heavy weapons (without soldiers) and the creation of a sort of responsible force. LSM quotes Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg as saying that there will be a force pre-assigned to a specific area, which means troops will train and rotate, get to know the country and its armed forces. Obviously, a permanent presence of a larger Nato force is not expected - as Nato has stressed in the past and as foreseen by the 1997 Russia-Nato agreement, adds LSM. (LSM, 15 June)

Russia steps up 'war of nerves' - columnist

In an article entitled "Russia is also waging a 'war of nerves' against us all", Maris Zanders of the conservative Latvijas Avize newspaper comments on Russian MP Yevgeny Fyodorov's suggestion that Russia could withdraw its recognition of the independence of Ukraine and the Baltic states. The first big target audience is the collective West - "your sanctions, even the failure of our initial plans in Ukraine, do not affect us in any way, we are not softening the tone, we are radicalising, so be afraid!", Zanders says. The second target audience is the adherents of the Kremlin narratives in the Baltics, who are encouraged by the fact that they are not forgotten, he adds. Even such individual proposals by "ordinary" MPs in a totalitarian state like Russia are coordinated with the higher-ups, so this kind of rhetoric must be taken seriously, Zanders concludes. (Latvijas Avize, 16 June)

Latvia, as a member of the UN and other international organisations, does not need the recognition of certain countries to ensure its independent status, BB.lv writes. Perhaps the Russian MP's initiative was necessary to show how low the interstate relations between the Baltic states and Russia are, the portal suggests. "We have gone so far with mutual sanctions that there is little left to sanction and destroy," BB.lv sys. (BB.lv, 15 June)

Attack on teenager with Ukrainian flag

In a report titled "Expect Lynch law?", the news portal BB.lv alleges that MP Janis Dombrava of the right-wing National Alliance has threatened to lynch "Russian occupiers" in Latvia if the interior and justice ministries do not take up the issue. The MP was commenting on the case of an attack on a teenager with the flag of Ukraine in Riga. The politician was angry with the punishment of the accused in this crime - he was sentenced to 200 hours of forced labour. "The attack on the teenager with the Ukrainian flag illustrates a dangerous problem created by the ministries of interior and justice - residents cannot rely on the state to effectively protect them from the occupiers," BB.lv cites the MP's tweet. (BB.lv, 15 June)

Russia's appeal in French politics

Before the second round of the French parliamentary election, Xavier Land, a lecturer at the Riga School of Economics, analyses in the online magazine Satori the reasons why the leaders of the multi-party coalition grouped around the far-left France Unfaithful, which came out on top in the first round, have always been tolerant of Putin and his actions such as the annexation of Crimea. If the New Environmental and Social People's Union prevails, it could undermine Nato and EU capacity and support for Ukraine, says the pundit. Lang explains that Russia's appeal is fuelled by the enduring fascination with communism among parts of the political elite and electorate, widespread anti-Americanism, the belief that France is a special nation, and fascination with messianic, authoritarian personalities. Regretfully, Putin is still in the eyes of many a model leader to emulate, he concludes. (Satori, 16 June)

Source: Latvian press highlights in Latvian 1045 gmt 16 Jun 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220616ei6g000xd


Russian Ice Hockey Federation considers CAS appeal against IIHF ban
Patrick Burke
385 字
2022 年 7 月 14 日
insidethegames.biz
INGAM
英文
© 2022. Dunsar Media Company Limited. All Rights Reserved
The Russian Ice Hockey Federation (FHR) is considering an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) against the suspension of its national teams from International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) events.

Russia and Belarus have been banned from the IIHF Women's World Championship due to begin next month in Denmark, and the IIHF Annual Congress in May ratified a Council decision to prevent them from competing in World Championships across all age groups for 2023.

This followed both national teams being suspended by the IIHF "until further notice" on February 28 in response to the invasion of Ukraine and in line with International Olympic Committee (IOC) recommendations.

Saint Petersburg had been due to host the men's World Championship next year, but was replaced by Tampere in Finland and Riga in Latvia.

Earlier this month, the IIHF's Disciplinary Board's Deciding Panel dismissed an appeal against the measures implemented against Russia and Belarus, finding that the bans from competition were a "safety policy" rather than a sanction.

However, FHR President Vladislav Tretiak has revealed that the national governing body plans to work with the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) and Ministry of Sports in a bid to overturn the decisions.

FHR President Vladislav Tretiak has said the organisation plans to coordinate an appeal against the IIHF's measures with the ROC and Russian Ministry of Sports ©Getty Images[https://cdn.dmcl.biz/media/image/245437/o/Vladislav+Tretiak.jpg]

"We will coordinate the decision to file an appeal with higher organisations - the ROC and the Ministry of Sports," he told Russian state news agency TASS.

Russia and Belarus have largely been frozen out of international sport since the invasion of Ukraine, with the majority of International Federations implementing IOC recommendations to move any planned events away from both countries and ban their athletes and officials from competitions.

However, the IOC has not suspended either country's National Olympic Committee, and both countries' National Federations have largely escaped punishment.

According to the United Nations' latest report on Tuesday (July 12), at least 5,024 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since the launch of what Moscow describes as a "special military operation" on February 24, although it is feared that the true figure is far higher.

More than 9.1 million people have also been forced to flee Ukraine.

Dunsar Media Company Limited

文件 INGAM00020220714ei7e000gp


EU to target Russian gold in next sanctions package: commissioner
LETA
365 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 09:00 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
PRAGUE, July 15 (LETA--AFP) - The European Union will target Russian gold exports in its next sanction package and seek to "close exit routes" for those bypassing its earlier packages, an EU commissioner said Friday.

The EU has so far approved six sanction packages against Russia. The last one passed in June imposed a ban on most Russian oil imports.

The EU will look into "ways we could slap a sanction regime on gold, which is an important commodity for exports from Russia", Maros Sefcovic, deputy head of the European Commission, said in Prague.

"As soon as we reach an agreement at the level of member states, we will publish it," he said ahead of an informal meeting of EU affairs ministers held by the Czech presidency of the 27-nation bloc.

The move follows a ban on gold imports from Russia agreed by the world's most industrialised nations at a G7 meeting at the end of June.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Olga Stefanishyna, who is attending the meeting in Prague, urged the EU to adopt a new sanctions package.

"Nothing makes Russia so far feel accountable for (its) crimes," she told reporters.

"We hope the next, seventh package of sanctions will have a strong restrictive potential and will be taken without further delay and as soon as possible," said Stefanishyna.

Sefcovic added the EU would also seek to "close all exit routes for those wanting to bypass the sanctions".

"It is of course a very complex mechanism, so we need to not only set up, but also check, monitor and close the places that would create platforms for an exit in some way," he said.

He also waved aside any thoughts of fatigue among EU members helping Ukraine, which Russia invaded on February 24.

"I have never seen so strongly demonstrated unity and effort from all member states to look for all possible reserves, whether we talk about financial aid or arms supplies," Sefcovic said.

"Even though it's really difficult, we will continue because it's the Ukrainians fighting for their freedom who are in the most difficult situation," he ad

30454436373236332D433443462D3436

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220715ei7f000xd


Former Soviet Union Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - July 15, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 7 月 15 日, 16662 字, (英文)
Azerbaijan increased gas exports by 15%Azerbaijan's gas production in January-June was 23.4 bcm, which is 15.1% higher than the same period last year, according to Energy Minister Parviz Shahbazov, who tweeted on July 9. According to him, ...

Swedbank earns EUR 49 million in Latvia in H1
LETA
404 字
2022 年 7 月 19 日 06:48 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, July 19 (LETA) - Swedbank earned EUR 49 million in Latvia in January-June, which is EUR 7 million more than in the first half of 2021, as the bank's public relations officer Lasma Dzelme told LETA.

The profit increased on higher income and lower credit impairments, explained Dzelme. Credit impairments were insignificant compared to EUR 6 million in the first six months of the last year.

Net interest income did not change substantially. Lending increased by 3 percent supported by increased household lending volumes. Deposits increased by 7 percent.

Net commission income increased by 11 percent, largely on higher income from cards and asset management. Expenses increased by 4 percent, mainly due to higher staff costs and investments in digital solutions.

"The second quarter showed continued growth and high activity among both private individuals and companies. The growth in green financing more than doubled is a sign of increased public interest in sustainability and improving energy resilience. At the same time, soaring inflation, rising interest rates and looming energy strains in the winter season start to dent consumer confidence and create a more challenging environment for companies which leads to a more uncertain economic outlook going forward. Nevertheless, given rather strong economic and financial fundamentals and further public investments in economic and social convergence with the EU, longer term prospects for Latvian economy are decent," said Swedbank Latvia CEO Lauris Mencis.

Business activity remained strong during the second quarter despite prevailing geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainties and increasing inflation. Mortgage volumes increased thanks to continued high activity in the housing sector. As both private customers and corporates invest more and more in sustainable choices, new sales of environmentally friendly cars are up by 69 percent, while solar panel sales and investments in apartment building renovation have grown fourfold as compared to the year before.

Total private new lending volumes increased by 15 percent year on year, while corporate new financing was up by 18 percent year on year.

Sanction controls continued to tighten. In order to reduce the risk of sanction breaches, Swedbank discontinued payments to and from Russia and Belarus, with the only exceptions being social, humanitarian needs and payments made in the interest of the State.

In the first half of 2021, Swedbank Latvia posted EUR 35.491 million in profit. In terms of assets, Swedbank is Latvia's largest bank.

38394436393345462D323037452D3446

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220719ei7j0008d


Russia halts gas shipments to Latvia over ‘contract violations’
239 字
2022 年 7 月 30 日
The Irish Examiner
IRISEX
英文
Copyright 2022. Irish Examiner Ltd.
Russia’s state-owned natural gas corporation has halted shipments to Latvia because of alleged contract violations.

In a brief statement, Gazprom said the shipments were stopped because Latvia broke “terms for extraction of gas”.

The statement likely referred to a refusal to meet Russia’s demand for gas payments in rubles rather than other currencies.

Gazprom previously suspended shipments to other European Union countries including the Netherlands, Poland and Bulgaria because they would not pay in rubles.

Latvian media reported this week that the country has resumed buying Russian gas from another supplier (Markus Schreiber/AP)

The immediate effects of the cut-off were not clear. Latvian media reported this week that the country had resumed buying Russian gas from another supplier.

After the EU imposed sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, Russian President Vladimir Putin said in March that “unfriendly foreign buyers” would have to transact with Gazprom in rubles instead of dollars and euros.

The Kremlin said importers had to establish an account in dollars or euros at Russia’s third-largest bank, Gazprombank, then a second account in rubles.

The importer would pay the gas bill in euros or dollars and direct the bank to exchange the money for rubles.

Many countries refused to comply, saying the new payment system could put them in the position of breaking sanction terms.

Click to view image.[https://www.irishexaminer.com/cms_media/module_img/6257/3128933_3_articlelarge_2.67977587.jpg.jpg]

Landmark Digital Limited

文件 IRISEX0020220730ei7u001us


Daily Headline News for August 1, 2022
2478 字
2022 年 8 月 1 日 16:16 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire
DAIBN
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
Digest of headline news as of 7:00 p.m. Moscow time on August 1:

BUSINESS & FINANCE

*** GAZPROM HALTS GAS SUPPLIES TO LATVIA DUE TO VIOLATIONS OF OFFTAKE CONDITIONS

Gazprom has halted supplies of gas to Latvia in light of its violations of offtake conditions, the Russian company said on July 30.

"Today, PJSC Gazprom halted supplies of gas to Latvia under the nomination for July in light of violations of gas offtake conditions," Gazprom said in a statement.

According to Gazprom's reports, the company supplied 1.622 billion cubic members of gas to Latvia

in 2020 and 1.664 billion cubic meters in 2019.

*** GAZPROM'S EXPORTS TO CHINA ROSE 61% IN 7M

Gazprom (MOEX: GAZP) increased gas exports to China through the Power of Siberia pipeline 60.9% in the first seven months of 2022, the Russian gas giant said.

"Exports of gas to China through the Power of Siberia pipeline are growing within the framework of a long-term bilateral contract between Gazprom and CNPC, growing 60.9% in seven months. Supplies in July in particular were regularly above the daily contract amount, hitting new all-time highs for daily export volumes three times," Gazprom said.

Supplies of Russian gas through Power of Siberia to China from the Chayanda field in Yakutia began at the end of 2019. They are due to be ramped up to 38 billion cubic meters per year in the first five years.

*** WESTERN SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIAN METALLURGY AT ODDS WITH WTO PRINCIPLES - PUTIN

Western sanctions against Russian metallurgists are at odds with the World Trade Organization's (WTO) principles and are affecting living standards in Europe, Russian President Vladimir Putin said at a meeting on the metallurgical industry's development on Monday.

Putin noted that Western nations had restricted the access of Russian metal companies to foreign markets and had banned the procurement of certain components for making bars, rolled metal and steel sheets in Russia.

"Those decisions by Western countries serve political interests. Moreover, they are current, opportunistic interests that do not reflect the realities of global politics or the global economy," he said.

The sanctions were approved "in disregard of the obvious, clear consequences, including the higher cost of building materials on the global market and higher rates of global inflation," Putin said.

*** RUSSIAN METAL COS WORKING AT 80% CAPACITY, SOME SEEING NEGATIVE PROFITABILITY - MANTUROV

Russian metallurgical exports fell roughly 20% year-on-year in Q2 2022 with capacity utilization averaging at 80%, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov said at a meeting on the metallurgical sector's development chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"Russian metallurgists are now operating with limited access to Western markets. Exports in Q2 decreased by about 20%. There is also a considerable decline in domestic consumption. As a result, the sector's capacity utilization has decreased from an average of 93% to 80%. The situation is the most challenging at Magnitogorsk, at 62%, and Severstal - 72%. They produce mostly sheet products, for which demand has decreased the most," Manturov said.

"It's another matter that the export margin is not the same as it was a year ago. As the global economy slows, steel prices are falling sharply. In addition, in new markets for us, metallurgists are forced to find their niche and work at a discount. External supplies are unprofitable at the current ruble exchange rate," he said.

*** BELARUS LOOKING TO CREATE COMMON ECONOMIC SPACE WITH RUSSIA BY 2024 - BELARUSIAN AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA

Belarus and Russia intend to create a full-fledged common economic space by January 1, 2024, but some parts of the union programs aimed at that are stalled, Belarus's new Ambassador to Russia Dmitry Krutoi said.

"Twenty-eight programs [were approved earlier]; 980 points of various events are part of union programs. The monitoring system shows that 35% have been fulfilled. Our president and the president of Russia are not quite satisfied with these dynamics, especially in some parts, which are clearly stalled, where totally different dynamics are needed," Krutoi said on Monday after being appointed to the post of ambassador to Russia.

*** MOLDOVA TO RECEIVE 50 MLN EUROS AS MFA FROM EU

The European Commission announced on Monday that it disbursed 50 million euros to Moldova, including 35 million euros in long-term loans on concessional terms and 15 million euros in grants.

"We will continue to support Moldova, together with our international partners, to navigate this crisis and create the conditions for a future of prosperity and stability," the European Commission quoted Commissioner for Economy Paolo Gentiloni as saying.

The sum is the first disbursement under the new macro-financial assistance (MFA) for Moldova, which took effect on July 18, 2022 and will be valid for two and a half years, it said.

*** TAJIKISTAN INTERESTED IN DEEPENING RELATIONS WITH CHINA IN EVERY FORMAT - RAHMON

Tajikistan is interested in continuing to deepen the close multifaceted relations with China in every format, Tajik President Emomali Rahmon said in a conversation with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi.

Rahmon underlined the dynamic development of the Tajik-Chinese relations of friendship and comprehensive strategic partnership in every area of cooperation and noted, "Tajikistan and China are close neighbors, so we are interested in further deepening of the close multifaceted relations between the two nations in every format," the Tajik presidential press service said in a statement.

China has a strong position of a major trade and investment partner of Tajikistan, the press service said.

POLITICS & SOCIETY

*** THERE CAN BE NO WINNERS IN NUCLEAR WAR, IT SHOULD NEVER BE STARTED - PUTIN'S ADDRESS

Russia presumes that there can be no winners in a nuclear war, and it should never be started, President Vladimir Putin said in an address to the participants in the 10th Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.

"As a country that is an NPT signatory and one of its depositaries, Russia consistently follows the letter and the spirit of the Treaty. We have also completely fulfilled our obligations under bilateral understandings with the United States on the reduction and limitation of relevant weapons. We presume that there can be no winners in a nuclear war, and it should never be started. We advocate equal and indivisible security for all members of the international community," Putin said in his address published on the Kremlin's official website.

*** KREMLIN VOICES SUPPORT FOR PEACEFUL, CONSTRUCTIVE STANCE OF BELGRADE IN KOSOVO SITUATION

Moscow fully supports the constructive stance of Belgrade in the Serbia-Kosovo situation, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said at a press briefing on Monday.

"We absolutely support Serbia, and we stand by the Kosovo Serbs. We believe these are absolutely unfounded requirements [the requirements set by the Kosovo authorities for the new document issuance procedure]. Thank God an escalation was averted overnight, but the situation has just been delayed for one month," Peskov said in response to a request for comment.

"Therefore, it is crucial that all sides behave reasonably. We support the peaceful, constructive stance of Belgrade in this context and the calls for peace and constructive ideas from the Serbian president. We also think that the countries, which have recognized Kosovo and serve as the guarantors, should use their influence to the fullest in order to warn the Kosovo authorities against any reckless steps that might escalate tensions even further. And, of course, we demand that all the rights of the Serbs be observed," Peskov said.

*** RUSSIA IMPOSES ENTRY BAN ON 39 UK POLITICIANS, BUSINESSPEOPLE, JOURNALISTS

Russia has announced personal sanctions against a number of British politicians, businesspeople, and journalists as a retaliatory measure, the Foreign Ministry said on Monday.

The Russian stop-list includes 39 British individuals, and their names are published on the ministry website.

"As the United Kingdom government is continuing to apply the sanction restriction mechanism on members of Russia's sociopolitical quarters, its economic operators, and media outlets, a decision has been made to include in the Russian entry ban list a number of British politicians, businesspeople, and journalists facilitating London's hostile course aimed at our country's demonization and international isolation," it said.

*** RUSSIA MAY SUPPLY WEAPONS TO SERBIA IF NECESSARY - FEDERATION COUNCIL'S DZHABAROV

Russia may supply weapons to Serbia should Belgrade make this request, First Deputy Chairman of the Federation Council's Foreign Affairs Committee Vladimir Dzhabarov said.

"Assistance can also be provided - if that is necessary - via the delivery of certain weapons if the Serbs reach out to us," Dzhabarov said on the Rossiya 24 television channel (VGTRK) on Monday.

"I hope the country will give support if our leadership decides to provide reasonable assistance to Serbia. Even if the delivery of some kind of weapons is needed. Hopefully, things won't come to that," he said.

*** RUSSIA COULD BAN CHILD ADOPTION FOR CITIZENS OF UNFRIENDLY COUNTRIES - BILL

Citizens from unfriendly states may no longer be allowed to adopt Russian orphans, under a bill introduced in the State Duma and placed in its database on Monday.

The bill proposes banning citizens of countries from a government-approved list of states and territories, which act unfriendly towards Russia, from adopting or becoming guardians of Russian orphans or children left without the custody of their parents.

*** RUSSIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY CONFIRMS DEPARTURE OF FIRST BULKER CARRYING UKRAINIAN GRAIN FROM ODESA

The first bulker carrying Ukrainian grain departed from the Odesa port on Monday morning; it will arrive in Istanbul on Tuesday, the Russian Defense Ministry said.

"MV Razoni flying the flag of Sierra Leone departed from the Odesa port at about 9:20 a.m. Moscow time on August 1 in fulfillment of the initiative for the safe transportation of grain and food from Ukrainian ports. MV Razoni is carrying corn; it is due to arrive in the Istanbul port on August 2, 2022," the ministry said.

"MV Razoni is using a marine corridor in the northwestern part of the Black Sea," it said.

*** CRIMINAL CASE OPENED OVER EXPLOSION ON PREMISES OF BLACK SEA FLEET HEADQUARTERS - RUSSIAN INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE

The Russian Investigative Committee has opened a criminal case on attempted murder counts following a drone explosion on the premises of the Black Sea Fleet headquarters in Crimea, the agency said on Telegram on Monday.

"Following an explosion on the premises of the Black Sea Fleet headquarters, a criminal case was opened under Part 3 Article 30 and Article 105 of the Russian Criminal Code (attempted murder of two people or more by a socially dangerous method)," the Russian Investigative Committee said.

According to the investigators, a drone carrying projectiles exploded on the premises of the Black Sea Fleet headquarters in the morning of July 31.

*** UK NGO CALVERT 22 FOUNDATION DECLARED UNDESIRABLE IN RUSSIA

The Russian Prosecutor General's Office told reporters on Monday that it has designated the UK non-governmental organization (NGO) Calvert 22 Foundation as undesirable in Russia.

"A decision was adopted to designate the foreign non-governmental organization Calvert 22 Foundation, UK, as undesirable on the territory of the Russian Federation," the Prosecutor General's Office said.

The activities of this NGO "pose a threat to the foundations of the constitutional system and security of the Russian Federation," it said.

*** LUKASHENKO REPLACES BELARUSIAN AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA

Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has appointed Dmitry Krutoi as the new Belarusian ambassador to Russia.

"The president addressed personnel issues on August 1. The head of state appointed Dmitry Nikolayevich Krutoi as the ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Belarus to the Russian Federation. Concurrently, he will serve as plenipotentiary representative of the Republic of Belarus to the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States and special representative of the Republic of Belarus for integration in the Union State, the Eurasian Economic Union, the Commonwealth of Independent States, and the Collective Security Treaty Organization," the First Man's Pool Telegram channel, close to the presidential administration, said on Monday.

Krutoi will replace Vladimir Semashko as the Belarusian ambassador to Russia.

*** BELARUS NOT PLANNING TO EXPORT GRAIN - MINISTER

Belarus is expecting a good grain harvest but is not planning to export grain, Belarusian Agriculture Minister Igor Brylo said.

"Perhaps, we cannot talk about some kind of grain export, as our country has not been exporting grain in recent years. Why? Because a sufficiently large amount of grain is consumed by animal farming. We are expecting a GDP growth of approximately 104.5% in the agro-industrial sector this year. We realize that milk production will grow; at least, we are planning that. We will also increase meat production. That requires feed, including mixed feed, which is based on grains. So, I believe that the provision for animal farming and, clearly, food for our people, are the priority," Brylo said on the ONT channel on Sunday.

Belarus aims to sell end product, such as milk, meat foods and so on, rather than export grain, he said.

*** POPE TO PAY VISIT TO KAZAKHSTAN ON SEPT 13-15

Pope Francis will pay a state visit to Kazakhstan on September 13-15, the press service for the Kazakh president said.

"Pope Francis will pay a state visit to Kazakhstan on September 13-15, 2022, at the invitation of President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev," the press service said in a statement on Monday.

The pope will meet with the top leadership of the country and participate in the seventh Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions as part of his visit, the statement said.

*** UZBEKISTAN UNBLOCKS USER ACCESS TO TWITTER, WECHAT AND VK

Unobstructed user access to the social networks Twitter, WeChat and VK has fully resumed in Uzbekistan starting from August 1, the press service for the Information and Mass Communications Agency said on Monday.

Talks with the platform TikTok continue, and information on their results will be reported later, the press service said.

"Blocking only harms development," the agency said.

*** NEW ZEALAND EXPANDS ANTI-RUSSIAN SANCTIONS

New Zealand announced an expansion of anti-Russian sanctions over the special military operation in Ukraine on Monday; the new restrictions will apply to a number of defense enterprises, as well as SOGAZ and RZD.

"Also designated are the Insurance Company SOGAZ; the Russian Railways; and defense entities that research, produce and test military hardware for the Russian Armed Forces," the New Zealand Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

The New Zealand sanctions against Russia "allow for a wide range of measures including travel bans, asset freezes, prohibitions on financial dealings and bans on ships or aircraft entering New Zealand. The measures also prevent New Zealanders and New Zealand companies from providing goods and services to the Russian Armed Forces and other defense entities targeted by these sanctions," it said.

Of sv

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DAIBN00020220801ei810080x


Daily Headline News for August 1, 2022
2478 字
2022 年 8 月 1 日 16:16 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
Digest of headline news as of 7:00 p.m. Moscow time on August 1:

BUSINESS & FINANCE

*** GAZPROM HALTS GAS SUPPLIES TO LATVIA DUE TO VIOLATIONS OF OFFTAKE CONDITIONS

Gazprom has halted supplies of gas to Latvia in light of its violations of offtake conditions, the Russian company said on July 30.

"Today, PJSC Gazprom halted supplies of gas to Latvia under the nomination for July in light of violations of gas offtake conditions," Gazprom said in a statement.

According to Gazprom's reports, the company supplied 1.622 billion cubic members of gas to Latvia

in 2020 and 1.664 billion cubic meters in 2019.

*** GAZPROM'S EXPORTS TO CHINA ROSE 61% IN 7M

Gazprom (MOEX: GAZP) increased gas exports to China through the Power of Siberia pipeline 60.9% in the first seven months of 2022, the Russian gas giant said.

"Exports of gas to China through the Power of Siberia pipeline are growing within the framework of a long-term bilateral contract between Gazprom and CNPC, growing 60.9% in seven months. Supplies in July in particular were regularly above the daily contract amount, hitting new all-time highs for daily export volumes three times," Gazprom said.

Supplies of Russian gas through Power of Siberia to China from the Chayanda field in Yakutia began at the end of 2019. They are due to be ramped up to 38 billion cubic meters per year in the first five years.

*** WESTERN SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIAN METALLURGY AT ODDS WITH WTO PRINCIPLES - PUTIN

Western sanctions against Russian metallurgists are at odds with the World Trade Organization's (WTO) principles and are affecting living standards in Europe, Russian President Vladimir Putin said at a meeting on the metallurgical industry's development on Monday.

Putin noted that Western nations had restricted the access of Russian metal companies to foreign markets and had banned the procurement of certain components for making bars, rolled metal and steel sheets in Russia.

"Those decisions by Western countries serve political interests. Moreover, they are current, opportunistic interests that do not reflect the realities of global politics or the global economy," he said.

The sanctions were approved "in disregard of the obvious, clear consequences, including the higher cost of building materials on the global market and higher rates of global inflation," Putin said.

*** RUSSIAN METAL COS WORKING AT 80% CAPACITY, SOME SEEING NEGATIVE PROFITABILITY - MANTUROV

Russian metallurgical exports fell roughly 20% year-on-year in Q2 2022 with capacity utilization averaging at 80%, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov said at a meeting on the metallurgical sector's development chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"Russian metallurgists are now operating with limited access to Western markets. Exports in Q2 decreased by about 20%. There is also a considerable decline in domestic consumption. As a result, the sector's capacity utilization has decreased from an average of 93% to 80%. The situation is the most challenging at Magnitogorsk, at 62%, and Severstal - 72%. They produce mostly sheet products, for which demand has decreased the most," Manturov said.

"It's another matter that the export margin is not the same as it was a year ago. As the global economy slows, steel prices are falling sharply. In addition, in new markets for us, metallurgists are forced to find their niche and work at a discount. External supplies are unprofitable at the current ruble exchange rate," he said.

*** BELARUS LOOKING TO CREATE COMMON ECONOMIC SPACE WITH RUSSIA BY 2024 - BELARUSIAN AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA

Belarus and Russia intend to create a full-fledged common economic space by January 1, 2024, but some parts of the union programs aimed at that are stalled, Belarus's new Ambassador to Russia Dmitry Krutoi said.

"Twenty-eight programs [were approved earlier]; 980 points of various events are part of union programs. The monitoring system shows that 35% have been fulfilled. Our president and the president of Russia are not quite satisfied with these dynamics, especially in some parts, which are clearly stalled, where totally different dynamics are needed," Krutoi said on Monday after being appointed to the post of ambassador to Russia.

*** MOLDOVA TO RECEIVE 50 MLN EUROS AS MFA FROM EU

The European Commission announced on Monday that it disbursed 50 million euros to Moldova, including 35 million euros in long-term loans on concessional terms and 15 million euros in grants.

"We will continue to support Moldova, together with our international partners, to navigate this crisis and create the conditions for a future of prosperity and stability," the European Commission quoted Commissioner for Economy Paolo Gentiloni as saying.

The sum is the first disbursement under the new macro-financial assistance (MFA) for Moldova, which took effect on July 18, 2022 and will be valid for two and a half years, it said.

*** TAJIKISTAN INTERESTED IN DEEPENING RELATIONS WITH CHINA IN EVERY FORMAT - RAHMON

Tajikistan is interested in continuing to deepen the close multifaceted relations with China in every format, Tajik President Emomali Rahmon said in a conversation with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi.

Rahmon underlined the dynamic development of the Tajik-Chinese relations of friendship and comprehensive strategic partnership in every area of cooperation and noted, "Tajikistan and China are close neighbors, so we are interested in further deepening of the close multifaceted relations between the two nations in every format," the Tajik presidential press service said in a statement.

China has a strong position of a major trade and investment partner of Tajikistan, the press service said.

POLITICS & SOCIETY

*** THERE CAN BE NO WINNERS IN NUCLEAR WAR, IT SHOULD NEVER BE STARTED - PUTIN'S ADDRESS

Russia presumes that there can be no winners in a nuclear war, and it should never be started, President Vladimir Putin said in an address to the participants in the 10th Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.

"As a country that is an NPT signatory and one of its depositaries, Russia consistently follows the letter and the spirit of the Treaty. We have also completely fulfilled our obligations under bilateral understandings with the United States on the reduction and limitation of relevant weapons. We presume that there can be no winners in a nuclear war, and it should never be started. We advocate equal and indivisible security for all members of the international community," Putin said in his address published on the Kremlin's official website.

*** KREMLIN VOICES SUPPORT FOR PEACEFUL, CONSTRUCTIVE STANCE OF BELGRADE IN KOSOVO SITUATION

Moscow fully supports the constructive stance of Belgrade in the Serbia-Kosovo situation, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said at a press briefing on Monday.

"We absolutely support Serbia, and we stand by the Kosovo Serbs. We believe these are absolutely unfounded requirements [the requirements set by the Kosovo authorities for the new document issuance procedure]. Thank God an escalation was averted overnight, but the situation has just been delayed for one month," Peskov said in response to a request for comment.

"Therefore, it is crucial that all sides behave reasonably. We support the peaceful, constructive stance of Belgrade in this context and the calls for peace and constructive ideas from the Serbian president. We also think that the countries, which have recognized Kosovo and serve as the guarantors, should use their influence to the fullest in order to warn the Kosovo authorities against any reckless steps that might escalate tensions even further. And, of course, we demand that all the rights of the Serbs be observed," Peskov said.

*** RUSSIA IMPOSES ENTRY BAN ON 39 UK POLITICIANS, BUSINESSPEOPLE, JOURNALISTS

Russia has announced personal sanctions against a number of British politicians, businesspeople, and journalists as a retaliatory measure, the Foreign Ministry said on Monday.

The Russian stop-list includes 39 British individuals, and their names are published on the ministry website.

"As the United Kingdom government is continuing to apply the sanction restriction mechanism on members of Russia's sociopolitical quarters, its economic operators, and media outlets, a decision has been made to include in the Russian entry ban list a number of British politicians, businesspeople, and journalists facilitating London's hostile course aimed at our country's demonization and international isolation," it said.

*** RUSSIA MAY SUPPLY WEAPONS TO SERBIA IF NECESSARY - FEDERATION COUNCIL'S DZHABAROV

Russia may supply weapons to Serbia should Belgrade make this request, First Deputy Chairman of the Federation Council's Foreign Affairs Committee Vladimir Dzhabarov said.

"Assistance can also be provided - if that is necessary - via the delivery of certain weapons if the Serbs reach out to us," Dzhabarov said on the Rossiya 24 television channel (VGTRK) on Monday.

"I hope the country will give support if our leadership decides to provide reasonable assistance to Serbia. Even if the delivery of some kind of weapons is needed. Hopefully, things won't come to that," he said.

*** RUSSIA COULD BAN CHILD ADOPTION FOR CITIZENS OF UNFRIENDLY COUNTRIES - BILL

Citizens from unfriendly states may no longer be allowed to adopt Russian orphans, under a bill introduced in the State Duma and placed in its database on Monday.

The bill proposes banning citizens of countries from a government-approved list of states and territories, which act unfriendly towards Russia, from adopting or becoming guardians of Russian orphans or children left without the custody of their parents.

*** RUSSIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY CONFIRMS DEPARTURE OF FIRST BULKER CARRYING UKRAINIAN GRAIN FROM ODESA

The first bulker carrying Ukrainian grain departed from the Odesa port on Monday morning; it will arrive in Istanbul on Tuesday, the Russian Defense Ministry said.

"MV Razoni flying the flag of Sierra Leone departed from the Odesa port at about 9:20 a.m. Moscow time on August 1 in fulfillment of the initiative for the safe transportation of grain and food from Ukrainian ports. MV Razoni is carrying corn; it is due to arrive in the Istanbul port on August 2, 2022," the ministry said.

"MV Razoni is using a marine corridor in the northwestern part of the Black Sea," it said.

*** CRIMINAL CASE OPENED OVER EXPLOSION ON PREMISES OF BLACK SEA FLEET HEADQUARTERS - RUSSIAN INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE

The Russian Investigative Committee has opened a criminal case on attempted murder counts following a drone explosion on the premises of the Black Sea Fleet headquarters in Crimea, the agency said on Telegram on Monday.

"Following an explosion on the premises of the Black Sea Fleet headquarters, a criminal case was opened under Part 3 Article 30 and Article 105 of the Russian Criminal Code (attempted murder of two people or more by a socially dangerous method)," the Russian Investigative Committee said.

According to the investigators, a drone carrying projectiles exploded on the premises of the Black Sea Fleet headquarters in the morning of July 31.

*** UK NGO CALVERT 22 FOUNDATION DECLARED UNDESIRABLE IN RUSSIA

The Russian Prosecutor General's Office told reporters on Monday that it has designated the UK non-governmental organization (NGO) Calvert 22 Foundation as undesirable in Russia.

"A decision was adopted to designate the foreign non-governmental organization Calvert 22 Foundation, UK, as undesirable on the territory of the Russian Federation," the Prosecutor General's Office said.

The activities of this NGO "pose a threat to the foundations of the constitutional system and security of the Russian Federation," it said.

*** LUKASHENKO REPLACES BELARUSIAN AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA

Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has appointed Dmitry Krutoi as the new Belarusian ambassador to Russia.

"The president addressed personnel issues on August 1. The head of state appointed Dmitry Nikolayevich Krutoi as the ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Belarus to the Russian Federation. Concurrently, he will serve as plenipotentiary representative of the Republic of Belarus to the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States and special representative of the Republic of Belarus for integration in the Union State, the Eurasian Economic Union, the Commonwealth of Independent States, and the Collective Security Treaty Organization," the First Man's Pool Telegram channel, close to the presidential administration, said on Monday.

Krutoi will replace Vladimir Semashko as the Belarusian ambassador to Russia.

*** BELARUS NOT PLANNING TO EXPORT GRAIN - MINISTER

Belarus is expecting a good grain harvest but is not planning to export grain, Belarusian Agriculture Minister Igor Brylo said.

"Perhaps, we cannot talk about some kind of grain export, as our country has not been exporting grain in recent years. Why? Because a sufficiently large amount of grain is consumed by animal farming. We are expecting a GDP growth of approximately 104.5% in the agro-industrial sector this year. We realize that milk production will grow; at least, we are planning that. We will also increase meat production. That requires feed, including mixed feed, which is based on grains. So, I believe that the provision for animal farming and, clearly, food for our people, are the priority," Brylo said on the ONT channel on Sunday.

Belarus aims to sell end product, such as milk, meat foods and so on, rather than export grain, he said.

*** POPE TO PAY VISIT TO KAZAKHSTAN ON SEPT 13-15

Pope Francis will pay a state visit to Kazakhstan on September 13-15, the press service for the Kazakh president said.

"Pope Francis will pay a state visit to Kazakhstan on September 13-15, 2022, at the invitation of President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev," the press service said in a statement on Monday.

The pope will meet with the top leadership of the country and participate in the seventh Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions as part of his visit, the statement said.

*** UZBEKISTAN UNBLOCKS USER ACCESS TO TWITTER, WECHAT AND VK

Unobstructed user access to the social networks Twitter, WeChat and VK has fully resumed in Uzbekistan starting from August 1, the press service for the Information and Mass Communications Agency said on Monday.

Talks with the platform TikTok continue, and information on their results will be reported later, the press service said.

"Blocking only harms development," the agency said.

*** NEW ZEALAND EXPANDS ANTI-RUSSIAN SANCTIONS

New Zealand announced an expansion of anti-Russian sanctions over the special military operation in Ukraine on Monday; the new restrictions will apply to a number of defense enterprises, as well as SOGAZ and RZD.

"Also designated are the Insurance Company SOGAZ; the Russian Railways; and defense entities that research, produce and test military hardware for the Russian Armed Forces," the New Zealand Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

The New Zealand sanctions against Russia "allow for a wide range of measures including travel bans, asset freezes, prohibitions on financial dealings and bans on ships or aircraft entering New Zealand. The measures also prevent New Zealanders and New Zealand companies from providing goods and services to the Russian Armed Forces and other defense entities targeted by these sanctions," it said.

Of sv

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020220801ei810058x


Australia news
Latvia urges Australia to support designating Russia as state sponsor of terrorism
Sarah Martin and Paul Karp
525 字
2022 年 8 月 8 日 06:16 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
After meeting with Penny Wong, foreign minister Edgars Rinkevics says he will call on European Union to also support sanctionFollow our Australia news live blog for the latest updatesGet our free news app, morning email briefing or daily news podcast

Latvia is calling on Australia to support designating Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism amid concern about ongoing war crimes in Ukraine.

The Latvian foreign minister, Edgars Rinkevics, met with the Australian foreign affairs minister, Penny Wong, on Monday, outlining his concerns about Russia’s aggression while urging the west to boost military support.

Rinkevics, who is in Australia to open Latvia’s first embassy in Canberra, said he believed the sanction was necessary given the ongoing atrocities committed in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/08/russia-ukraine-war-what-we-know-on-day-166-of-the-invasion]. He said he would be calling on the European Union to also support the designation.

The proposal would result in a complete ban on visas for Russian citizens and the confiscation of Russian government assets, and would also make it easier to put in place a process for war crime proceedings against officials who were directly responsible for committing atrocities in Ukraine.

“We have an international criminal court, we have the international court of justice, but the crime of aggression actually does not fall under the responsibility of those courts. So we need to address those things, we need to address the war crimes and genocide that is being committed by Russians against Ukraine,” he said.

Rinkevics said he had raised Latvia’s position in his meeting with Wong, and would continue to make the case, which is also being pushed by Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy.

Wong said the meeting had emphasised the Australian government’s commitment to holding Russia to account for “its illegal and immoral invasion of Ukraine”.

Speaking to students at the Australian National University last week, Zelenskiy said the world had to “make its choice” to declare Russia a state sponsor of terrorism.

“The difference between a terrorist and Russia is that terrorists hold themselves accountable for their actions and Russia cannot do even that and tries to accuse other people for their atrocities,” he said.

Zelenskiy decried “hundreds, thousands of military crimes” and Russian atrocities in the illegal invasion of Ukraine. These included “mass execution of a peaceful population, handcuffing people, put them on their knees, kill them with a shot on their back; and [raping] them in front of the eyes of their own children”.

Rinkevics said while the US had a legal framework for recognising state-sponsored terrorism, the European Union did not, and he believed this was necessary.

The Australian government can list an organisation as a terrorist organisation if it is satisfied it is engaged in preparing, planning, assisting or fostering the doing of a terrorist act, however it is unclear how this relates to other governments.

Rinkevics said he and Wong had agreed on the “necessity to continue to support Ukraine in any way we can”.

“The western world must increase military assistance because, as we see unfortunately, Russia is continuing its aggression.”

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220808ei88000ru


Latvian Parliament calls Russia a state sponsor of terrorism
445 字
2022 年 8 月 11 日
The Irish Examiner
IRISEX
英文
Copyright 2022. Irish Examiner Ltd.
Latvia’s Parliament has declared Russia a “state sponsor of terrorism” for attacks on civilians during the war in Ukraine and has urged other countries to follow suit.

MPs adopted a strongly worded statement on Thursday that accuses Moscow of using “suffering and intimidation as tools in its attempts to demoralise the Ukrainian people and armed forces and paralyse the functioning of the state”.

The statement says Latvia’s Parliament “recognises Russia’s violence against civilians in pursuit of political aims as terrorism, recognises Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism and calls on other like-minded countries to express the same view”.

It says Russian forces are deliberately targeting Ukrainian civilians in the war, including with attacks on a theatre in Mariupol in March, a shopping mall in Kremenchuk in June and a residential area in Odesa in July.

MPs also called on Western countries to reinforce sanctions on Russia and urged fellow members of the European Union to stop issuing tourist visas to citizens of Russia and Belarus.

Sixty-seven members in the 100-seat assembly voted in favour of adopting the statement and 16 abstained, the Parliament said.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky with Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia Urmas Reinsalu in Kyiv (Ukrainian Presidential Press Office/AP/PA)

Meanwhile, Estonia has decided to bar people from neigbouring Russia with tourist visas from entering the northernmost Baltic country as a consequence of the war in Ukraine.

“Russian citizens’ opportunity to visit Estonia in large numbers or to visit Europe through Estonia is incompatible with the meaning of the sanctions we’ve established,” Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu was quoted as saying by the Baltic News Service.

The European Union, of which Estonia is a member, has already banned air travel from Russia after it invaded Ukraine. But Russians can still travel by land to Estonia and take flights to other European destinations.

By imposing the sanction, Estonia wants Russia “to be unable to continue its ordinary international life also at the level of its citizens”, Mr Reinsalu said according to BNS, the region’s main news agency. He added that they had observed “a massive growth in the number of Russian citizens transiting through or arriving in Estonia”.

BNS said exceptions to Thursday’s sanction included Russian citizens with a long-term residence permit; those coming to visit close relatives; workers involved in the international transport of goods and passengers, as well as people entering the country for humanitarian reasons.

The Estonian sanction applies from August 18. Estonia and Russia share a nearly 186-mile long border.

Click to view image.[https://www.irishexaminer.com/cms_media/module_img/6292/3146204_4_articlelarge_2c9e2387-c64a-4a70-a100-881d9c26d53e.jpg.jpg]

Landmark Digital Limited

文件 IRISEX0020220811ei8b0020i


The Baltic States: Estonia cancels its Schengen visas for Russians; The Seimas of Latvia recognizes Russia as a "state - sponsor of terrorism":
1450 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日
WPS: What the Papers Say
WHTPAP
英文
(c) 2022 WPS Russian Media Monitoring Agency. All rights reserved.
The MFA: The decision of the Seimas (Parliament) of Latvia to recognize Russia as a "state -sponsor of terrorism": "We are considering the statement of the Latvian Seimas on the "recognition" of the Russian Federation as a "state - sponsor of terrorism" with a call to stop issuing tourist visas to Russians as another manifestation of Russophobia, which has long become a "tuning fork" of Latvian foreign policy", the MFA statement says. According to the MFA, the decision of Riga is contrary to international law. MFA, RT, RIA, Rambler, RBC

• Social Media Commentary: Nezygar Brief Telegram channel (235.4K): "Moscow most likely will not respond to Latvia's propaganda demarche. Riga is counting on the Kremlin's reaction, but this is their erroneous tactic. Apart from the noise of propagandists and measures of an economic nature, there will be no other reaction. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will give a dry comment, politicians of the first echelon from the State Duma and the Federation Council will PR on the topic and close it. The Baltics will learn by what the pound is dashing in fall and winter, and there are enough surprises for energy-dependent and subsidized regions. You can, for example, publish a new agreement between Riga and Gazprom, where it opened and already partially paid for gas in rubles. The actions of Riga and Tallinn are largely caused by internal political problems. Against the backdrop of the crisis, the influence of moderate and pro-Russian parties is growing, which is alarming right-wing conservative forces. The task of Russian loyalty is recognized as the most important in Latvia and Estonia, where the largest Russian diaspora is. They are also the richest. In addition, in Riga and Tallinn they are afraid of local armed conflicts and the emergence of Russian proxy forces capable of destabilizing the situation. At the same time, some officials are concerned about the transformation of Latvia into the center of an ideological conflict with Russia; the situation will literally squeeze the pro-Russian opposition out of the country."

***

Regnum editor in chief Yuriy Baranchik (22.4K): "The Saeima of Latvia has declared Russia a country that "supports terrorism." This is another conceptual test for Russia's foreign policy. Let me remind you that one of these landmark tests was the voicing of the idea of strikes on decision-making centers, bridges and railways in Ukraine. It was not implemented... In theory, in response to this step of Latvia, we should break off diplomatic relations, close the Latvian embassy, declare Latvia a rogue state that is carrying out the genocide of the Russian population, declare a trade and economic blockade and take a set of "other measures" to admonish the Latvian political elite... The severity of our diplomatic response will show how seriously we are ready to defend our national interests."

***

Maester Telegram channel (206.5K): "Latvian Foreign Minister Edgar Rinkevich reacted nervously to the idea voiced in the State Duma to simplify the acquisition of Russian citizenship by residents of the Baltic states. "In this case, the newly minted citizens of Russia are not granted a residence permit, and they will have to leave Latvia, it will be necessary to introduce appropriate clarifications into the national legislation," he wrote. Neither the Russian nor the Latvian initiatives have yet taken a complete shape, so it is impossible to say about the exact consequences of these decisions. But if we add here today's decision of the Latvian Seimas to recognize Russia as a sponsor of terrorism, then it becomes clear that aggression against the Russian-speaking minority of the republic plans to reach a new level. Latvia, which sees a threat even in 200 Russian opposition journalists in the country, is seriously afraid of the passportization of the Russian-speaking community, probably seeing this as a pretext for Russia to interfere in the internal affairs of the state under the guise of protecting its citizens."

The MFA spokesperson Zakharova comments on the decision of the Latvian Parliament to declare Russia "a country-sponsor of terrorism": "The Saeima of Latvia has declared Russia a "country-sponsor of terrorism". [is that] News? No. We have already commented on it. Considering that there is no texture under this decision except for savage xenophobia, it is necessary to call [its] ideologues nothing more but "neo-Nazis", Maria Zakharova wrote in her Telegram channel. RBC, Rossiya First Channel, RIA

Estonia to close borders for Russians with Schengen visas issued in the republic: Tallinn has decided to close the country's borders for Russians with Schengen visas issued in Estonia. "This provides for a number of exceptions", Minister of Foreign Affairs of Estonia Urmas Reinsalu said. "In a week, a sanction will be applied to Schengen visas issued by the Republic of Estonia. The sanction means that the visas will remain valid. However, sanctions will be imposed on visa holders when entering Estonia, that is, they will be prohibited from entering Estonia", Minister Reinsalu said. There will be exceptions for persons who work in a diplomatic mission; persons whose work is related to international transportation; persons whose arrival is connected with humanitarian reasons; persons who visit a relative living in Estonia; persons entitled to free movement within the EU. Kommersant, RBC, Izvestia, Moskovskiy Komsomolets

• Social Media Commentary: RT editor in chief Margarita Simonyan (341.5K): "Estonia has closed entry to Russians, except for truck drivers, relatives of Estonians and diplomats. Wait, what, someone else went to Estonia besides them?"

***

Journalist Alexey Naumov (9.8K): "An interesting ideological split in the European Union was exposed by the Estonian decision to close the borders for Russians. The European Union, although it grew out of a purely economic association of coal and steel, today is a largely ideological organization - upholding the values of the free world as it sees them. The ideological lacquer gives the unification a touch of meaningfulness and holds it together. This is how it seems to the European giants - it was not without reason that Scholz said that he had little idea of the possibility of banning the issuance of visas to all Russians. For the new EU members, the union is largely not about values, but about political expediency. About increasing your own strength. About the opposition to Russia. For conservative Poland, with problems with freedom of speech and a de facto ban on abortion, no European values are needed - it needs to take revenge on Russia and at the same time Germany for centuries of humiliation. To do this, Berlin is regularly asked for compensation for the Nazis, and we are seeing opposition to Moscow live. The Baltic countries keep up with the comrades from Warsaw. Actually, the current value "split" between the old and new EU members won't lead to any immediate consequences - rather, it will make it more difficult to form a motley EU as an independent political force. And will once again prove that Europe is different. And Russia is its integral part."

***

Shulika Telegram channel (27.7K): "The Estonian authorities have made a decision, according to which Russian citizens who have a Schengen visa issued by the republic will be denied entry into the country. The sanctions will not apply to employees of Russian diplomatic missions in Estonia and members of their families, as well as persons involved in international transportation or who have the right to free movement under EU law. In addition, the restrictions will not apply to persons whose entry into the Republic is necessary for humanitarian reasons, close relatives of Estonian citizens and holders of a permanent residence permit in the Republic. Now 50,000 Estonian visas have been issued to Russians. The game, of course, is utter idiocy. Absolutely Soviet people, on the one hand. On the other hand, this is a pre-election technology, there will be elections soon. This is how the world lives - in Israel, the pre-election technology was in the form of a military operation in Gaza, and in Estonia in the form of a fight against the Russians."

***

Vremennoe Pravitelstvo Telegram channel (33.5K): "As we expected, the Baltics will not go further. Estonia announced the closure of the border for Russians with Schengen visas issued by it (with a number of exceptions), while Germany announced that it would continue to issue visas to Russians, because. responsibility for the SMO is not borne by ordinary citizens, but by the leadership of the Russian Federation."

International agenda (Russia - the Baltic States), Social & Internet Media, Trending Stories, Friday in Russian News - August 12, 2022

WPS USA, Inc.

文件 WHTPAP0020220812ei8c0002v


It is necessary to decide on EU-level on visa ban for Russian citizens - PM Karins
Kristaps Ūgainis
308 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日 16:31 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, Aug 12 (LETA) - It is necessary to decide on the European Union (EU) level on a Schengen visa ban for Russian citizens to thus toughen the sanctions imposed on Russia, Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins (New Unity) said Friday following a meeting with Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte.

The Czech Republic, which holds the rotating EU presidency, said Friday that a blanket ban on visas for all Russian travelers could be the bloc's next sanction on Moscow.

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said said he would propose the idea at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Prague at the end of August.

"In a time of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin keeps on escalating, there cannot be talks about common tourism for Russian citizens," said Lipavsky.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the West to ban all Russian travellers in an interview with the Washington Post this week, saying Russians should "live in their own world until they change their philosophy".

Finland's Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto last week introduced a plan to limit tourist visas for Russians.

Latvia informed last week that it would stop issuing visas to Russian and Belarusian citizens.

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas called on the EU to stop issuing visas to Russians earlier this week. "Visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right," she said in a tweet on Tuesday.

While discussing the situation in the energy sector, the prime ministers of Latvia and Lithuania underlined the necessity to strengthen energy independence from Russia, ensuring at the same time necessary gas deliveries to the region for the coming heating season.

Karins and Simonyte also reasserted their countries' commitment to providing support to Ukraine in its struggle against Russian aggression.

33324237324638442D393334312D3435

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220812ei8c001xh


Levits proposes revoking residence permits and visas issued to foreigners who support Russian aggression
Gatis Kristovskis
596 字
2022 年 8 月 13 日 14:13 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, Aug 13 (LETA) - Latvian President Egils Levits stated that residence permits and visas issued so far in Latvia for those persons who support Russian aggression should be annulled, he said while addressing the participants of the 23rd gathering of politically repressed persons of Latvia in Ikskile on Saturday.

As LETA was informed by the Office of the President, Levits said that recently, not only in Latvia, but also in a number of other European countries, especially in Estonia and Finland, which directly borders Russia, as well as in the Czech Republic, which is currently the country holding the presidency of the European Union, such discussions about Russian tourists in Europe are taking place.

"Is it politically and morally justifiable: while the Russian army kills and burns in Ukraine, Russian tourists can rest peacefully in Europe?" asked the president rhetorically.

Levits reminded that Latvia has not issued tourist visas since the first day of the war - February 24, but other countries continue to issue them. Russian tourists enter Latvia not only with tourist visas issued by Latvia, but also by other Schengen countries, such as Finland or Italy, for example.

Taking into account the above, Levits believes that Latvia, together with Finland, Estonia, the Czech Republic and other like-minded countries, should put forward a demand at the European level to stop issuing tourist visas to Russian citizens. These would be additional sanctions against Russia.

At the same time, the president said that knowing that a number of European countries, where Russian tourists leave a lot of money, they will not be excited about such a proposal. The German chancellor has also expressed his doubts about such a proposal. "But I believe that it is necessary to talk about it. It is necessary to talk about this in principle," Levits emphasized.

At the same time, the president believes that the residence permits and visas already issued in Latvia should be reviewed. Those who support Russian aggression should have them nullified. However, in any case, in principle, such permits should no longer be extended, except if special circumstances are proven in a specific case.

According to the president, residence permits should also no longer be issued to those permanent residents of Latvia who accept Russian citizenship in the future, and they should leave the country.

"Trading with residence permits by previous governments, their unjustified generosity in granting residence permits to Russian citizens, behind which only the selfish interests of some political businessmen hid, has created security risks and promoted bilingualism. It is time to correct the consequences of this failed and dangerous policy," Levits emphasized.

The AFP news agency writes that the Czech Republic, which holds the rotating EU presidency, said Friday that a blanket ban on visas for all Russian travelers could be the bloc's next sanction on Moscow.

"The flat halting of Russian visas by all EU member states could be another very effective sanction," Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said in a statement obtained by AFP.

He said he would propose the idea at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Prague at the end of August.

"In a time of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin keeps on escalating, there cannot be talks about common tourism for Russian citizens," said Lipavsky.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the West to ban all Russian travelers in an interview with the Washington Post this week, saying Russians should "live in their own world until they change their philosophy".

37443832433836452D353336422D3433

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220813ei8d000m9


Latvian president backs ban on issuance of tourist visas to Russians
481 字
2022 年 8 月 14 日 08:59 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
RIGA. Aug 14 (Interfax/BNS) - Together with Finland, Estonia, the Czech Republic and other like-minded nations, Latvia should demand on the European level that the issuance of tourist visas to Russians be halted, Latvian President Egils Levits said.

Addressing the 23rd congress of victims of political repression in Latvia's Ikskile on Saturday, Levits stressed that this would add to anti-Russian sanctions.

Levits recalled that a discussion about Russian tourists in Europe recently started in Latvia and several other European countries, particularly in Estonia and Finland, which are also Russia's neighbors, and in the Czech Republic, which last month took over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the Latvian presidential chancellery told the news agency BNS on Sunday.

In this regard, it is necessary to review visas and residence permits previously issued by Latvia, Levits said. Residence permits issued to those people supporting Russia's actions in Ukraine should be cancelled or at least should not be extended, except under special circumstances, he said.

Residence permits should not be issued to permanent residents of Latvia who obtain Russian citizenship in the future, and such individuals should leave Latvia, he said.

"Trading in residence permits by previous governments, their unjustifiable generosity and issuing residence permits to Russian citizens, behind which were hidden only the vested interests of some businessmen in politics, created security risks and contributed to bilingualism. Now it's time to review the consequences of these failed and dangerous policies," Levits said.

Earlier this week, the Estonian government approved a new sanction restricting the issuance of visas to Russian nationals and barring Russian citizens who wish to visit Estonia for tourism, business, sportive or cultural purposes and have valid visas issued by Estonia on hand from entering the country.

"This means that if a Russian citizen with a Schengen visa issued by Estonia, whose purpose of the visit is tourism, business, sport or culture, arrives at a border checkpoint such as Narva, Luhamaa or Koidula, they can no longer enter Estonia starting next Thursday, August 18," the Estonian government's press service said on Friday.

Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin recently spoke in favor of restricting the issuance of tourist visas to Russians at the EU level. "It is clear that Russians use Finland as a transport hub when traveling via our country to holiday destinations in other countries. We're discussing this matter in the government, and the discussion will continue," Marin told Finland's Yle website.

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said earlier a ban on issuing Schengen visas to Russian nationals could be introduced.

"A ban on the issuance of Schengen visas to Russian citizens could be another sanction," Polish radio quoted Lipavsky as saying on Thursday.

st

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020220814ei8e0005l


Not All EU countries united in visa ban for Russian citizens
BNN
1039 字
2022 年 8 月 17 日 13:35 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2022. BNN. All Rights Reserved
While Baltics states are united over Schengen Visa Ban for Russian Citizens, not all EU countries are ready to back this decision.

On August 5 Latvia stopped accepting visa application from citizens of Russia for an indefinite time period with exception to those who visit Latvia to attend a close relative’s funeral.

On Tuesday, August 16, Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš said at the press conference that the ruling coalition of government of Latvia has agreed to change the principles for the renewal of temporary residence permits (TUAs) issued to Russian citizens in Latvia. It was decided that from now on they will not be renewed, except in rare cases.

earlier this week, President of Latvia Egils Levits also suggested that residence permit should be revoked for supporters of Russia.

«Is it politically and morally justifiable: while the Russian army kills and burns in Ukraine, Russian tourists relax peacefully in Europe?» the president of Latvia asked rhetorically.

Discussion on Russian tourists and visa ban for Russian citizens in Europe has been started not only in Latvia, but also in other European countries, especially in Estonia, Finland, which directly borders with Russia, as well as in the Czech Republic, which is currently the country holding the presidency of the European Union.

Lithuania was among those countries who were first to stop issuing visas to Russian citizens. On August 6 in a written statement to public broadcaster LRT Lithuanina Foreign Ministry said that «Following the tightening of the visa regime, the acceptance of visa applications of citizens of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus […] has been suspended, except in cases when the Lithuanian Foreign Ministry mediates in the issuance of the visas.»

A few days later Estonian government, on August 11, announced that starting from August 18 Estonia will ban Russians with Estonian–issued Schengen visas from entering the country. At the government's weekly press conference, Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu announced that this sanction means visas will remain valid, but the visa holders will be sanctioned when entering Estonia, they will not be allowed to enter Estonia, informed broadcaster ERR.

As mentioned above, beside Baltic states Czech Republic and Finland have also suspended visa issuance for citizens of Russia.

On August 12, according to The Brussels Times, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic Jan Lipavský has spoken out in favour of an EU–wide coordinated approach. He pointed out that the Czech Republic was the first country within the union to halt issuing visas for Russian citizens, and Lipavský said: «We are trying to explain to our partners that the approach is justified and effective.»

But not all EU countries are ready to support the call for the visa ban for Russians citizens.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said that Berlin would not follow European countries that have called for an EU–wide move to halt issuing tourist visas to Russian citizens.

German chancellor beckoned to remember the many refugees who have fled Russia do not support Russian regime and reminded that this not a war with Russian people. He considers that this is not a black or white question and such decision should not make it more complicated for Russia’s regime opponents to leave country, Germany won't back a call to end Russian tourist visas, quotes abc news.

Prime Minister of Finland Sanna Marin, however, believes that in future this visa–related topic will be raised at European Council meetings even more strongly.

Sanna Miren considers that issuing tourist visas to Russians should be restricted following the country's full–scale invasion of Ukraine.

«It's not right that while Russia is waging an aggressive, brutal war of aggression in Europe, Russians can live a normal life, travel around Europe, be tourists,» she said to state broadcaster Yle.

Finland’s minister for foreign affairs Pekka Haavisto considers that likely till autumns there won’t be an EU–wide decision on the visa ban for Russian citizens, but Finland is still able to limit tourist visas for Russians without violating Schengen Area rules, writes broadcaster Yle.

The Finnish government decided on Tuesday, August 16, significantly reduce the number of tourist visas granted to Russian citizens in light of the ongoing war in Ukraine. Finland also supports ending the EU visa facilitation agreement with Russia. The changes in visa issuance will enter into force in September.

Nevertheless, Keit Kasemets, a political scientist, considers that it will be rather difficult for Europe to individually identify every relative, child and lover of Russian politicians, top officials and military leaders to put on black lists. Because of this, a broader ban on entry is necessary, Estonian ERR reports.

Data from the EU's border agency Frontex suggests that 856,000 Russian citizens have entered the EU by crossing its land border since the war in Ukraine started.

Most have crossed the border between Russia and the EU. But there are also people who come via Belarus, Turkey, Serbia.

In the ERR article it is said that among those who come to the EU are people with a permanent residence permit and those with double citizenship, while the majority are traveling to Europe with long–term and short–term visas. They travel by cars, coaches or trains to Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and from there grab flights to European resorts.

Keit Kasemets thinks that if to look at EU capacity, an entry ban for Russian citizens would not be an easy one, while it is by no means impossible either. The principles of the Schengen area would have to be observed.

Political scientist points out that if Estonia can stop issuing visas and deny entry to visa holders from Russia, the Schengen Area's then external border must grant entry to these citizens if for example visa is granted by Germany.

Even though there can be temporarily closer of borders to third country citizens and even EU citizens, these decisions are still up to member states as opposed to the EU.

The post Not All EU countries united in visa ban for Russian citizens appeared first on Baltic News Network - News from Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020220817ei8h0008d


Russia This Week - August 26, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 26 日, 50350 字, (英文)
Rosatom gets green light from Hungarian nuclear watchdog to built Paks nuclear plantHungary’s nuclear authority OAH gave the implementation license for the extension of the country’s sole nuclear power plant Paks, with an added capacity of ...

World
EU meets to nut out ban on Russia visas
Jacquelin Magnay
448 字
2022 年 8 月 29 日 08:50 GMT
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
The EU will look to restrict tourist visas to Russians at a meeting in Prague on Tuesday.

Under pressure from the Baltic States and Ukraine, which have long demanded a blanket visa ban, the EU is to look at making it more difficult for Russians to move about the continent, as well as farther afield.

For example, once Russians are in Europe, they can apply for an Australian tourist visa.

The Schengen visa concept, allowing free travel through all member countries once one has issued a visa, has complicated single-country responses.

Last week German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, mindful of the reliance of his country on Russian gas to get through the coming winter, said he didn’t want to punish ordinary Russians with such a tourism sanction.

“This is Putin’s war, so I have a very hard time accepting that idea,” Mr Scholz said.

It is anticipated that meeting of EU foreign ministers will scrap the preferential treatment Russians enjoy in applying for visas in member states.

But the Baltic states have threatened to go it alone and ban Russian tourist visas, making it more difficult for Russians to move through the rest of Europe, if the EU doesn’t agree to impose a Schengen-wide policy.

“They must be deprived of the right to cross international borders until they learn to respect them,” Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said this month.

Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin said it wasn’t right for Russians to travel as tourists across the continent while their nation was waging war in Europe.

Denmark’s Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod told the Danish news agency: “I consider it shameful that Russian tourists can sunbathe and live in luxury in the south of Europe while Ukrainian cities are bombed beyond recognition.”

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said visiting Europe should be a privilege for Russians. She noted that while air travel from Russia was shut, Schengen countries had continued to issue tourist visas and Russians were flooding into neighbouring countries through land borders. The timing of the visa tightening is curious given that Russians have flocked to the Mediterranean for the summer holidays, which have just finished.

Lithuanian Foreign minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said Russians had been travelling through Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland and Poland to get to other parts of Europe. Some were flying via Istanbul, Dubai and Yerevan.

Latvia has already suspended tourist visas for Russians and Finland has cut the number of visas it approves by 90 per cent. In Britain, processing times for Russians applying for visas are so long and cumbersome to render an application virtually meaningless.

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 AUSTOL0020220829ei8t002gx


Amber Latvijas Balzams AS - Amber Latvijas balzams announces the results of the first half of 2022
Amber Latvijas Balzams AS published this content on 31 Aug 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 31 Aug 2022 12:27:18 UTC.
505 字
2022 年 8 月 31 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://csri.investinfo.lv/?view=csridocumentsdetails&id=21609]

Amber Latvijas balzams announces the results of the first half of 2022

The net revenue of the leading producer of alcoholic beverages in the Baltic states, JSC Amber Latvijas balzams, for the first half of the year 2022 reached EUR 40.6 million euros, an increase of 28.5% against the respective period in 2021. The increase in turnover is related to the improvement of the economic situation and as the result of facilitating the restrictions imposed by national governments on the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Also, the Company continues to develop cooperation with clients in Sweden and Germany by significant increase of sales volumes in respective markets.

The net profit for the reporting period is EUR 3.3 million, which is higher by 7.7% than in the respective period in the year 2021. The increase in net profit was positively affected by the increase in turnover but negatively by the rapid increase in the prices of raw materials and energy resources which was partly compensated by revising sales prices.

As the result of the invasion of Russian military forces in Ukraine in February 2022, the Company faced a number of significant changes, mostly such as an increase in prices for raw materials and energy, their availability, rescheduling of supply chains to meet production plans approved by customers, as well as with the need to review sales prices. Similarly, the international sanctions regime imposed on Russia and the close monitoring of fulfilment of sanction requirements has also affected the Companies' day-to-day operations. The Company has successfully adapted to the new situation in close cooperation with the management of Amber Beverage Group and continues to follow the development of the situation.

AS Amber Latvijas balzams is one of the largest local taxpayers. During the reporting period, the Company paid taxes of EUR 34.6 million to the state budget, including excise tax amounting to EUR 28.2 million.

Joint stock company Amber Latvijas balzams is the leading producer of alcoholic beverages in the Baltics with a rich history since 1900. The company owns two alcoholic beverage plants in Riga - a strong alcoholic beverage plant and a sparkling wine and light alcoholic beverage plant. Latvijas balzams is one of Latvia's leading exporters - its products are available in 180 countries around the world.

More information can be found in the Company's website section Latest Financial Indicators.

JSC Amber Latvijas balzams

Chairman of the Board

Intars Geidāns

* Original Link[https://csri.investinfo.lv/?view=csridocumentsdetails&id=21609]

Disclaimer

Amber Latvijas Balzams AS published this content on 31 August 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 31 August 2022 12:30:34 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020220831ei8v00fwf


Amber Latvijas balzams turnover up 28.5% in H1
Ivars Motivāns
400 字
2022 年 8 月 31 日 13:23 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, Aug 31 (LETA) - Net revenue of alcoholic beverages producer Amber Latvijas balzams for the first half of the year 2022 reached EUR 40.6 million, an increase of 28.5 percent against the respective period in 2021, while net profit for the reporting period is EUR 3.3 million, which is higher by 7.7 percent than in the respective period in the year 2021, according to the company's statement submitted to Nasdaq Riga stock exchange.

The increase in turnover is related to the improvement of the economic situation and as the result of facilitating the restrictions imposed by national governments on the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Also, the company continues to develop cooperation with clients in Sweden and Germany by significant increase of sales volumes in respective markets.

In turn, the increase in net profit was positively affected by the increase in turnover but negatively by the rapid increase in the prices of raw materials and energy resources which was partly compensated by revising sales prices.

As the result of the invasion of Russian military forces in Ukraine in February 2022, Amber Latvijas balzams faced a number of significant changes, mostly such as an increase in prices for raw materials and energy, their availability, rescheduling of supply chains to meet production plans approved by customers, as well as with the need to review sales prices.

Similarly, the international sanctions regime imposed on Russia and the close monitoring of fulfilment of sanction requirements has also affected the companies’ day-to-day operations. Amber Latvijas balzams has successfully adapted to the new situation in close cooperation with the management of Amber Beverage Group and continues to follow the development of the situation.

Amber Latvijas balzams is one of the largest local taxpayers. During the reporting period, the company paid taxes of EUR 34.6 million to the state budget, including excise tax amounting to EUR 28.2 million.

Latvijas balzams shares are quoted on the Nasdaq Riga Secondary List. Latvijas balzams is a member of alcohol producer and wholesaler Amber Beverage Group, which is headquartered in Luxembourg and operates through its production and distribution companies in Russia, Mexico, the UK, Australia, Austria and the Baltic states. Amber Beverage Group belongs to billionaire Yuri Shefler.

The company was registered in 1991 and has a share capital of EUR 10,495,660.

43363945334644412D423443382D3438

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220831ei8v00231


Amber Latvijas balzams announces the results of the first half of 2022
Distributed by Contify.com
515 字
2022 年 8 月 31 日
Contify Retail News
ATRTAL
英文
Copyright © 2022 Contify.com
The net revenue of the leading producer of alcoholic beverages in the Baltic states, JSC Amber Latvijas balzams, for the first half of the year 2022 reached EUR 40.6 million euros, an increase of 28.5% against the respective period in 2021. AS Amber Latvijas balzams is one of the largest local taxpayers. During the reporting period, the Company paid taxes of EUR 34.6 million to the state budget, including excise tax amounting to EUR 28.2 million.

Key Highlight:

* The net profit for the reporting period is EUR 3.3 million, which is higher by 7.7% than in the respective period in the year 2021.

Original Press Release:

Aug. 31 -- Amber Latvijas balzams issued the following news release:

The net revenue of the leading producer of alcoholic beverages in the Baltic states, JSC Amber Latvijas balzams, for the first half of the year 2022 reached EUR 40.6 million euros, an increase of 28.5% against the respective period in 2021. The increase in turnover is related to the improvement of the economic situation and as the result of facilitating the restrictions imposed by national governments on the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Also, the Company continues to develop cooperation with clients in Sweden and Germany by significant increase of sales volumes in respective markets.

The net profit for the reporting period is EUR 3.3 million, which is higher by 7.7% than in the respective period in the year 2021. The increase in net profit was positively affected by the increase in turnover but negatively by the rapid increase in the prices of raw materials and energy resources which was partly compensated by revising sales prices.

As the result of the invasion of Russian military forces in Ukraine in February 2022, the Company faced a number of significant changes, mostly such as an increase in prices for raw materials and energy, their availability, rescheduling of supply chains to meet production plans approved by customers, as well as with the need to review sales prices. Similarly, the international sanctions regime imposed on Russia and the close monitoring of fulfilment of sanction requirements has also affected the Companies’ day-to-day operations. The Company has successfully adapted to the new situation in close cooperation with the management of Amber Beverage Group and continues to follow the development of the situation.

AS Amber Latvijas balzams is one of the largest local taxpayers. During the reporting period, the Company paid taxes of EUR 34.6 million to the state budget, including excise tax amounting to EUR 28.2 million.

Joint stock company Amber Latvijas balzams is the leading producer of alcoholic beverages in the Baltics with a rich history since 1900. The company owns two alcoholic beverage plants in Riga – a strong alcoholic beverage plant and a sparkling wine and light alcoholic beverage plant. Latvijas balzams is one of Latvia’s leading exporters – its products are available in 180 countries around the world.

Source: Amber Latvijas balzams

[Category: Retail, Financial Results]

Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.

文件 ATRTAL0020220906ei8v000dy


Amber Latvijas balzams announces the results of the first half of 2022
405 字
2022 年 8 月 31 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Riga: Amber Latvijas balzams has issued the following press release:

The net revenue of the leading producer of alcoholic beverages in the Baltic states, JSC Amber Latvijas balzams, for the first half of the year 2022 reached EUR 40.6 million euros, an increase of 28.5% against the respective period in 2021. The increase in turnover is related to the improvement of the economic situation and as the result of facilitating the restrictions imposed by national governments on the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Also, the Company continues to develop cooperation with clients in Sweden and Germany by significant increase of sales volumes in respective markets.

The net profit for the reporting period is EUR 3.3 million, which is higher by 7.7% than in the respective period in the year 2021. The increase in net profit was positively affected by the increase in turnover but negatively by the rapid increase in the prices of raw materials and energy resources which was partly compensated by revising sales prices.

As the result of the invasion of Russian military forces in Ukraine in February 2022, the Company faced a number of significant changes, mostly such as an increase in prices for raw materials and energy, their availability, rescheduling of supply chains to meet production plans approved by customers, as well as with the need to review sales prices. Similarly, the international sanctions regime imposed on Russia and the close monitoring of fulfilment of sanction requirements has also affected the Companies' day-to-day operations. The Company has successfully adapted to the new situation in close cooperation with the management of Amber Beverage Group and continues to follow the development of the situation.

AS Amber Latvijas balzams is one of the largest local taxpayers. During the reporting period, the Company paid taxes of EUR 34.6 million to the state budget, including excise tax amounting to EUR 28.2 million.

Joint stock company Amber Latvijas balzams is the leading producer of alcoholic beverages in the Baltics with a rich history since 1900. The company owns two alcoholic beverage plants in Riga - a strong alcoholic beverage plant and a sparkling wine and light alcoholic beverage plant. Latvijas balzams is one of Latvia's leading exporters - its products are available in 180 countries around the world.

More information can be found in the Company's website section Latest Financial Indicators.

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020220908ei8v003qq


Latvian authorities report 1 383 violations of sanctions
LETA
374 字
2022 年 9 月 2 日 07:29 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2022. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Since the end of March, when the European Commission first started compiling data from members of the European Union regarding different violations of sanctions, a total of 2 349 cargoes have been denied entry to Latvia and 1 383 sanction violations have been registered in the country, as reported by the State Revenue Service (VID).

1 238 possible sanction violations were discovered in Latvia by 31 July.

Sanction violation trends remained unchanged in August, VID representatives say. The majority of violations are related to the carrying of plastic goods, chemical substances and different tools for material processing, as well as laboratory equipment out of Latvia.

As for entry to Latvia, VID reports violations involving different types of freight, such as vehicles and spare parts, wood processing materials, paper and plastic goods, barbecue charcoal and vodka.

VID representatives also remind that EU sanctions imposed for imports and exports to and from Russia and Belarus are binding for companies and private persons.

During personal checks at border checkpoints, state border officials reports mostly violations involving goods under sanctions – alcohol (from Russia), fuel (from Belarus) and cigarettes (from Belarusian factories under sanctions).

As to how VID checks the origin of stone coal freight, since coal imports from Russia are banned, VID representatives explained that in order to check if Russian coal is imported to Latvia, customs can request additional information and documented evidence.

VID representatives reported that coal is mostly carried using the railway, and all transports are carried out using different interstate contracts. This means there are very precise requirements for bills of lading, which require the data about the sender, the sender’s railway station data, the carrier’s data, data regarding border railway stations and other information.

Considering all this, in practice it is difficult to forge bills of lading in a way to fake Russian coal as coal sent from Kazakhstan, for example.

In order to verify the origin of imported goods, customs officials are authorised to request any information that proves the origin of goods, including coal mining sites, VID representatives add.

The post Latvian authorities report 1 383 violations of sanctions appeared first on Baltic News Network - News from Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020220902ei920002t


LATVIA: AUTHORITIES REPORT 1,383 VIOLATIONS OF SANCTIONS
357 字
2022 年 9 月 5 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2022. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
Since the end of March, when the European Commission first started compiling data from members of the European Union regarding different violations of sanctions, a total of 2,349 cargoes have been denied entry to Latvia and 1,383 sanction violations have been registered in the country, as reported by the State Revenue Service (VID).

1,238 possible sanction violations were discovered in Latvia as of July 31.

Sanction violation trends remained unchanged in August, VID representatives said. The majority of violations are related to the carrying of plastic goods, chemical substances and different tools for material processing, as well as laboratory equipment out of Latvia.

As for entry to Latvia, VID reports violations involving different types of freight, such as vehicles and spare parts, wood processing materials, paper and plastic goods, barbecue charcoal and vodka.

VID representatives also remind that EU sanctions imposed for imports and exports to and from Russia and Belarus are binding for companies and private persons.

During personal checks at border checkpoints, state border officials reports mostly violations involving goods under sanctions - alcohol (from Russia), fuel (from Belarus) and cigarettes (from Belarusian factories under sanctions).

As to how VID checked the origin of stone coal freight, since coal imports from Russia are banned, VID representatives explained that in order to check if Russian coal were imported to Latvia, customs could request additional information and documented evidence.

VID representatives reported that coal was mostly carried using the railway, and all transports were carried out using various interstate contracts. This means there are very precise requirements for bills of lading, which require the data about the sender, the sender's railway station data, the carrier's data, data regarding border railway stations and other information.

Considering all this, in practice it is difficult to forge bills of lading in a way to fake Russian coal as coal sent from Kazakhstan, for example.

In order to verify the origin of imported goods, customs officials are authorised to request any information that proves the origin of goods, including coal mining sites, VID representatives add. (BNN/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020220905ei950000q


Vabariigi Valitsus - Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland stop entry to Russian tourists through external borders
Vabariigi Valitsus published this content on 08 Sep 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 08 Sep 2022 12:50:51 UTC.
926 字
2022 年 9 月 8 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://www.valitsus.ee/en/news/estonia-latvia-lithuania-and-poland-stop-entry-russian-tourists-through-external-borders]

Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland stop entry to Russian tourists through external borders

"Together with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, we decided to introduce common restrictions on tourism for Russian nationals to protect public order and security," Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said. "Russia has brought war to Europe and is using all tools to undermine our societies. As the border states of the EU, we must keep Europe safe. Currently it is not possible to ensure that the Russian citizens entering the EU through Estonia do not pose a security threat. A regional agreement has been reached and now we will continue working towards a tourism restriction on Russian citizens in the entire European Union."

"Travel to the European Union is a privilege, not a human right. As the people of Ukraine are being tortured, murdered and terrorised, the citizens of the aggressor state should not be able to enjoy the benefits of the free world. We will no longer allow Russian tourists to cross our border, visiting family living in Estonia will remain among exceptions," Kallas said. This was also underlined in the joint statement of the prime ministers of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland today.

Minister of the Interior Lauri Läänemets said we have already imposed a sanction on Russian nationals holding a Schengen visa issued by Estonia but this does not prevent Russian citizens with Schengen visas issued by other states from travelling here or using Estonia for transit. "In view of the EU sanction banning air traffic, Estonia's eastern border is becoming a transit hub. Whereas in February 10 477 Russian citizens crossed Estonia's eastern border, this number has increased to more than 26 500 in July and in the summer months, more than 1000 people per day crossed the border on average. In addition to its own internal security, Estonia, an external border state, is responsible for the entire Schengen area and the mass travel of Russian nationals entails an increased security threat in current circumstances. Every country has the right to close its borders for security considerations and temporarily restrict border crossings, and for ensuring security in the region and the Schengen area more broadly, together with the other Baltic States and Poland we will restrict the transit of Russian tourists," the minister said. Läänemets said that from a moral perspective, it was important to continue looking for a solution on the EU level but at the moment, it was necessary to quickly introduce additional measures to mitigate the threats that tourism transit entails for the internal security and public order of the region.

Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu said that work on a EU-wide solution would continue. "Until we have come to an agreement on EU level on restricting entry for Russian nationals into the European Union, we are imposing these restrictions regionally. This is our legitimate response to the mass movement of Russian tourists through our countries to the rest of Europe." Minister Reinsalu added that continuing with sanctions against Russia was crucial for putting relentless pressure on Russia, and from Estonia's foreign policy perspective, it is a values-based and existential issue.

The restriction does not apply to all Russian citizens. Crossing the state border will continue to be possible for Russian nationals visiting family members or co-parents of minor children living in the Schengen area on a valid legal basis. Exemptions will continue to apply to diplomats; Russian nationals with a short-stay visa and registered employment in Estonia or with a student visitor visa, as well as for people directly employed in the international transport of goods and passengers. Exceptional entry is also allowed on humanitarian grounds and for dissidents. Transit without delay is also allowed to people who need to travel through Estonia to reach their country of residence. Exemptions will also apply when crossing Latvian, Lithuanian and Polish borders.

As of Monday, Russian nationals have 49 804 valid visas issued by Estonia, 47 998 of which are short-stay visas and 1805 are long-stay visas. The purpose of travel is tourism in 19 285 cases and in 20 389 cases it is visiting family and friends. Other countries issue more than three million Schengen visas a year, valid for up to five years and allowing multiple entry to the Schengen area. According to estimates, at least 10 million Russian citizens hold a valid short-stay Schengen visa.

The government's decision invalidates the current restriction on entry or the so-called Russian and Belarusian sanction regulation; new restrictions are introduced according to the State Borders Act. The Government Communication Unit will publish the order and the explanatory memorandum on the website https://kriis.ee/en/travelling-crossing-state-border/travelling-estonia/visas-russian-citizens[https://kriis.ee/en/travelling-crossing-state-border/travelling-estonia/visas-russian-citizens], where you can find additional information and answers to frequently asked questions.

The joint statement of the prime ministers of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland: https://valitsus.ee/en/news/joint-statement-prime-ministers-estonia-latvia-lithuania-and-poland[https://valitsus.ee/en/news/joint-statement-prime-ministers-estonia-latvia-lithuania-and-poland]

* Original Link[https://www.valitsus.ee/en/news/estonia-latvia-lithuania-and-poland-stop-entry-russian-tourists-through-external-borders]

Disclaimer

Government of the Republic of Estonia published this content on 08 September 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 08 September 2022 12:52:44 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020220908ei9800bt4


Latvia’s Egils Levits becomes first president to have spent a night in Kyiv during war time
BNN
501 字
2022 年 9 月 12 日 08:11 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2022. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Last week Latvia’s President Egils Levits visited war-torn Ukraine and violated an unwritten security protocol – he became the first of western leaders who remained in Kyiv overnight during a war.

Levits visited Kyiv on 13 April, becoming one of the first western leaders to have visited Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion, as reported by Unian.

After meeting with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, Levits participated in Yalta European Strategy Conference, where multiple panel discussions discussed western unity and support for Ukraine, investigation of crimes committed by Russian aggression, restoration of international order and sanctions as a tool in the fight against Russian aggression.

«Russia has commenced an ideological war not only against Ukraine, but the whole world as well.

Our duty in this war is simple – providing Ukraine all possible military, financial, humanitarian and political support. It is our contribution to the safety and freedom of Ukraine and all of Europe. I am confident that after its victory Ukraine will become one of the strongest European countries – restored from ruins, European, modern, economically stable, and – most importantly – Ukrainians will be a united nation,» said Levits at the opening of the conference.

Latvia’s president also stressed: «Talks with the aggressor regarding possible compromises has no long-term coverage, because real peace can only be accomplished when both sides recognise international law. Any pressure on Ukraine to accept territorial loss will not lead to peace, it will cause future threats and on a wider scale.»

The president also mentioned one of the most serious problems is the strength of democracy. «Democracy faces challenges coming from the outside – aggression against a democratic European country and the inside – distrust of the government, populism, etc. Democracy is under stress right now. A sustainable democracy is the foundation of our welfare. It is also important to restore international peace. I do not doubt this is important to 192 other UN member states.»

Also read: St. Petersburg deputies propose accusing Putin of treason

In the discussion about current and future sanction policy towards the aggressor – Russia – Levits said «it is highly important to preserve the sanction policy against Russia until Ukraine has fully restored its territorial integrity and sovereignty». «Latvia highly values stability, international peace and security guaranteed by international law. We have to prevent any attempts to undermine this international order,» stressed Latvia’s president.

During his discussion with youngsters about Russia using disinformation and fake news to spread propaganda, Levits said «it is our civil duty to oppose Russia’s information war». He also stressed that Latvia has experienced an information war for years, adding that the country has learned to recognize and fight against Russian propaganda. Now Latvia can share its experience with other countries.

The post Latvia’s Egils Levits becomes first president to have spent a night in Kyiv during war time appeared first on Baltic News Network - News from Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020220912ei9c00002


Poland, Baltic states ban entry for Russian tourists with visas
LETA
694 字
2022 年 9 月 19 日 07:42 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
TALLINN, Sept 19 (LETA--BNS) - Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland have barred entry on their external borders for all Russian nationals with a short-stay Schengen visa starting Monday, September 19.

The restriction does not apply to all Russian citizens. Crossing the state border will continue to be possible for Russian nationals visiting family members or co-parents of minor children living in Estonia on a valid legal basis. Exemptions will continue to apply to diplomats; Russian nationals with a short-stay visa and registered employment in Estonia or with a student visitor visa, as well as for people directly employed in the international transport of goods and passengers.

Exceptional entry is also allowed on humanitarian grounds and for dissidents. Transit without delay is also allowed to people who need to travel through Estonia to reach their country of residence. Exemptions will also apply when crossing Latvian, Lithuanian and Polish borders.

"Together with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, we decided to introduce common restrictions on tourism for Russian nationals to protect public order and security," Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said on September 8.

"Russia has brought war to Europe and is using all tools to undermine our societies. As the border states of the EU, we must keep Europe safe. Currently it is not possible to ensure that the Russian citizens entering the EU through Estonia do not pose a security threat. A regional agreement has been reached and now we will continue working towards a tourism restriction on Russian citizens in the entire European Union," Kallas said in a statement.

"Travel to the European Union is a privilege, not a human right. As the people of Ukraine are being tortured, murdered and terrorized, the citizens of the aggressor state should not be able to enjoy the benefits of the free world. We will no longer allow Russian tourists to cross our border, visiting family living in Estonia will remain among exceptions," Kallas said.

The same was also underlined in a joint statement of the prime ministers of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland on September 8.

Minister of the Interior Lauri Laanemets said Estonia has already imposed a sanction on Russian nationals holding a Schengen visa issued by Estonia but this does not prevent Russian citizens with Schengen visas issued by other states from travelling here or using Estonia for transit.

"In view of the EU sanction banning air traffic, Estonia's eastern border is becoming a transit hub. Whereas in February 10,477 Russian citizens crossed Estonia’s eastern border, this number increased to more than 26,500 in July and in the summer months, more than 1,000 people per day crossed the border on average. In addition to its own internal security, Estonia, an external border state, is responsible for the entire Schengen area and the mass travel of Russian nationals entails an increased security threat in current circumstances," the minister of the interior said.

"Every country has the right to close its borders for security considerations and temporarily restrict border crossings, and for ensuring security in the region and the Schengen area more broadly, together with the other Baltic States and Poland we will restrict the transit of Russian tourists," the minister said.

Laanemets said that from a moral perspective, it was important to continue looking for a solution on the EU level but at the moment, it was necessary to quickly introduce additional measures to mitigate the threats that tourism transit entails for the internal security and public order of the region.

Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu said on September 8 that work on a EU-wide solution will continue.

"Until we have come to an agreement on EU level on restricting entry for Russian nationals into the European Union, we are imposing these restrictions regionally. This is our legitimate response to the mass movement of Russian tourists through our countries to the rest of Europe," Reinsalu said, adding that continuing with sanctions against Russia was crucial for putting relentless pressure on Russia, and from Estonia's foreign policy perspective, it is a values-based and existential issue.

44304331373045382D314244442D3445

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220919ei9j0005l


Formin: Estonia to give up Russian gas from Jan 1
BNS/TBT Staff
369 字
2022 年 9 月 29 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2022 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
TALLINN – The Estonian government has taken a decision to impose a legally binding national sanction on Russian gas from Jan. 1, Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu said at the government's press conference on Thursday.

Reinsalu noted that the political will to give up Russian gas was expressed by the previous government already this spring, but now it was set out as a legally binding measure.

According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the sanction will affect first and foremost Estonian gas companies whose authorizations entitle them to import natural gas or provide transmission services. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, there are nine companies with valid authorizations to import gas and one company with an authorization to provide transmission services.

The measure will not bring any change to the supply of gas for household consumers, since almost no natural gas has been delivered to Estonia from Russia since April 2022.

Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Riina Sikkut said the sanction does not affect the security of Estonia's gas supply.

"We have taken a number of important steps to ensure the availability of gas when Russian imports cease, such as building LNG terminal reception capacity and increasing transmission capacity at existing interconnection points. To further mitigate the risk, we have established a state strategic gas reserve at the Estonian Stockpiling Agency, and Elering has also taken care of a reserve for protected consumers," Sikkut said.

The sanction enters into force on Dec. 31.

Reinsalu said at the government's press conference that the European Commission has also proposed a package of new sanctions on Russia.

"It provides for export bans on certain goods, as well as import bans, the extension of prohibitions on the provision of services, their extension to the so-called 'people's republics' of Donetsk and Luhansk, the extension of the sanctions also to the so-called civilian governments of the occupation authorities of the Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions," the minister explained.

In addition, the Commission made a proposal in principle for the European Union to enforce the oil price cap agreed by the G7.

Click to view image[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/155705_66346668163359b2de63d8_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020221024ei9t000ev


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
EU approves eight package of sanctions against Russia
LETA
390 字
2022 年 10 月 6 日 13:30 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
BRUSSELS, Oct 6 (LETA-DW) - The European Union (EU) has agreed on the eighth package of sanctions against Russia, as it continues to punish Russia for its war in Ukraine.

The package puts price caps on Russian oil and expands restrictions on trade in goods and services with Russia.

The new sanctions upholds a ban on shipping Russian oil to third countries as of December 2022 and on shipping oil products of Russian origin from February 2022, as well as on the provision of transportation related financial and other services.

According to a statement released by the European Commission on Thursday, the package marks the beginning of the implementation within the EU of the G7 agreement on Russian oil exports. While the EU's ban on importing Russian seaborne crude oil fully remains, the price cap, once implemented, would allow European operators to undertake and support the transport of Russian oil to third countries, provided its price remains under a pre-set "cap".

Almost EUR 7 billion worth of additional import restrictions have been agreed, the European Commission said. It includes, for example, a ban on the import of Russian finished and semi-finished steel products (subject to a transition period for some semi-finished), machinery and appliances, plastics, vehicles, textiles, footwear, leather, ceramics, certain chemical products, and non-gold jewelry.

The sanctions package prohibits EU nationals from holding posts in the governing bodies of certain state-owned enterprises.

It also bans all transactions with the Russian Maritime Register, adding it to the list of state-owned enterprises which are subject to a transaction ban.

The existing prohibitions on crypto assets have been tightened by banning all crypto-asset wallets, accounts, or custody services, irrespective of the amount of the wallet (previously up to EUR 10,000 was allowed).

The package widens the scope of services that can no longer be provided to the government of Russia or legal persons established in Russia: these now include IT consultancy, legal advisory, architecture and engineering services. These are significant as they will potentially weaken Russia's industrial capacity because it is highly dependent on importing these services.

The EU has introduced a new listing criterion, which will allow it to sanction persons who facilitate the infringements of the prohibition against circumvention of sanctions.

39314542363130382D324342462D3431

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020221006eia6002mh


EU approves eight package of sanctions against Russia
LETA/DW/TBT Staff
392 字
2022 年 10 月 7 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2022 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS - The European Union (EU) has agreed on the eighth package of sanctions against Russia, as it continues to punish Russia for its war in Ukraine.

The package puts price caps on Russian oil and expands restrictions on trade in goods and services with Russia.

The new sanctions upholds a ban on shipping Russian oil to third countries as of December 2022 and on shipping oil products of Russian origin from February 2022, as well as on the provision of transportation related financial and other services.

According to a statement released by the European Commission on Thursday, the package marks the beginning of the implementation within the EU of the G7 agreement on Russian oil exports. While the EU's ban on importing Russian seaborne crude oil fully remains, the price cap, once implemented, would allow European operators to undertake and support the transport of Russian oil to third countries, provided its price remains under a pre-set "cap".

Almost EUR 7 billion worth of additional import restrictions have been agreed, the European Commission said. It includes, for example, a ban on the import of Russian finished and semi-finished steel products (subject to a transition period for some semi-finished), machinery and appliances, plastics, vehicles, textiles, footwear, leather, ceramics, certain chemical products, and non-gold jewelry.

The sanctions package prohibits EU nationals from holding posts in the governing bodies of certain state-owned enterprises.

It also bans all transactions with the Russian Maritime Register, adding it to the list of state-owned enterprises which are subject to a transaction ban.

The existing prohibitions on crypto assets have been tightened by banning all crypto-asset wallets, accounts, or custody services, irrespective of the amount of the wallet (previously up to EUR 10,000 was allowed).

The package widens the scope of services that can no longer be provided to the government of Russia or legal persons established in Russia: these now include IT consultancy, legal advisory, architecture and engineering services. These are significant as they will potentially weaken Russia's industrial capacity because it is highly dependent on importing these services.

The EU has introduced a new listing criterion, which will allow it to sanction persons who facilitate the infringements of the prohibition against circumvention of sanctions.

Click to view image[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/155788_36895741633fed4cbaf20_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020221024eia7000cn


Lithuanian president calls on West to further tighten sanctions against Russia
BNS/TBT Staff
270 字
2022 年 10 月 20 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2022 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – Western sanctions against Russia have been less effective than expected and should therefore be tightened further, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda has said.

“We still have a lot to do in order to … stop Russia’s ability to continue this war. Our sanctions are bricking but our sanctions unfortunately did not bring so far the result we expected, so this is the reason why we have to discuss and consider a next sanction package and we [Lithuania] are clearly in favor of this,” he said upon arrival at the meeting of the EU Council in Brussels on Thursday.

Asked about the sanctions that the West could still impose against Russia, the Lithuanian president said that “we have a very big potential to improve our sanctions and tighten them”.

“There are many items we can include in sanctions, [such as] some metals, some diamonds, some persons related to war crimes in Ukraine and the annexation of its territories,” Nauseda stated.

He noted that sanctions should also apply to Belarus because Russia “has been planning and launching attacks on Ukraine from Belarusian soil”.

The latest – the eighth – package of EU sanctions against Moscow came into force earlier in October.

The EU added 30 natural persons and 7 legal entities to its ‘black’ list and introduced a new listing criterion, which will allow it to sanction persons who facilitate the circumvention of sanctions. In addition, the bloc included a price cap on Russian crude oil in its eighth round of sanctions, although concrete numbers have yet to be determined.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020221024eiak0008y


Lithuanian president says Russia's attacks on Ukraine's infrastructure "grave war crimes"
BNS/TBT Staff
345 字
2022 年 10 月 31 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2022 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS - Russia's attacks on Ukraine's critical infrastructure on Monday are another proof of serious war crimes, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda says.

The president met with visiting Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in Vilnius and said the existing sanction policy against Russia and Belarus must continue in response to Russia's latest actions.

"The recent actions by the Kremlin regime aimed at destroying critical civil infrastructure in Ukraine with missile and drone strikes are further evidence of grave war crimes. We must continue military, political and humanitarian support to Ukraine and help it to counter Russia’s barbaric military aggression. We must continue the policy of sanctions against Russia and Belarus and prepare a new package of targeted and effective sanctions. We also have to reinforce defense capabilities in NATO’s eastern flank," the Lithuanian president was quoted as saying in a statement released by the presidential pres service.

The Lithuanian president and the Greek prime minister discussed bilateral relations, cooperation in NATO and the EU, support for Ukraine, protection of the EU's external borders, illegal migration, and the need to resolve energy market issues as soon as possible at the EU level, the statement reads.

The Lithuanian president underlined the need to step up efforts at the EU level to combat Russia’s attempts to rewrite history and impose totalitarian-regime narratives in the context of the ongoing war against Ukraine.

Nauseda welcomed Greece’s ambition to become a regional hub for the transport of energy sources, providing alternative supply routes and contributing to strengthening energy security across the European Union.

The Ukrainian army aid earlier the Russian military fired more than 50 rockets at various cities, including the capital Kyiv, on Monday morning. Hundreds of settlements have been left without electricity due to damage to energy facilities, Ukrainian officials reported.

Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitchko says some 350,000 homes now have no electricity and about 80 percent of consumers in the capital have no water.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020221031eiav00007


Coalition parties in Latvia list numerous directions for the next four years in government declaration
LETA
808 字
2022 年 11 月 3 日 14:51 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2022. BNN. All Rights Reserved
The parties forming the new coalition in Latvia promise to focus on tirelessly fighting corruption, allocating more funding towards internal security, and introducing patient-focused state health insurance, as listed in the text of coalition partners cooperation memorandum LETA has been able to access.

It should be mentioned that the document may be corrected before it is signed.

The new government’s operations, according to the available document, are to be based on the principle of proportionality when it comes to representation of parties in the government and decision-making at meetings of the Cooperation Council, the principle of succession in improvement and continuation of reforms initiated by the previous government, as well as the principle of solidarity and responsibility for the PM and ministers approved by the Saeima.

The government’s jointly composed priorities will include promotion of solidarity and union of Latvia’s nation based on Latvian language, culture and unified historical memory.

Additionally, the memorandum project states that the government’s goal is improving the security of Latvia’s information space, implement a sustainable national return policy for the promotion of demography focused on the provision of meaningful services to children and parents with children in the focus to help prevent families raising children from ending up at risk of poverty.

The forming government also plans to continue providing support to Ukraine in its fight for freedom, as well as insist on maintaining a strict sanction policy against Russia and Belarus.

As for security, the memorandum projects mentions that the government’s goal is adopting a National Security Service by mid-2023, as well as increasing the defence budget and have it reach 3% of GDP by 2027. Politicians are also committed to increasing funding towards internal security and public order. The promise is to increase funding to no less than 2.5% of GDP in 2026, as well as develop a reliable crisis management and civil protection system and continue efforts to reinforce security on the state border.

The memorandum project also includes commitments like «continue supporting culture as one of the cornerstones of the national state; build on the basic principles of the rule of law and a democratic state; respect the division of state power; strengthen the rule of law and democratic values; combat corruption and improve investigative and judicial processes, as well as effectively enforce the verdicts of the Constitutional Court and other courts of law».

The government’s goal is finding common ground in various topics in order to improve the legal and social protection of all Latvian residents regardless of their gender, age or other social features, as well as promote quality and inclusive education in official language, continue reorganisation of the school network, present criteria for education institution in order to promote reduction of inequality within Latvia’s society.

To ensure dynamic development of sciences, universities and an internationally competitive high-value-added economy,

the government’s goal is increasing the state budget funding towards education and science and allocate funding equal to 1.5% of GDP towards research and development.

Latvia’s forming government also plans to adopt high management standards for state capital associations, consider possible merge of management of certain state capital associations, while keeping strategic assets and critical infrastructure under state control.

In certain cases, if it is necessary to attract capital or ensure development of companies, the government would be able to use financial tools that promote development of the national economy.

The plan also mentions promoting Riga’s growth as a metropolis in Nordic Europe, improve the city’s management model together with Pierīga municipalities, as well as invest into balanced development of surrounding regions to create an attractive and quality living and business environment.

There are also plans to create a balanced and business-friendly tax revenue distribution system between municipalities. This is intended to create new jobs.

The memorandum plan in its current redaction also details commitment to fighting grey economy through a tax regime that offers sustainable income in order to promote a person’s social insurance.

According to the memorandum’s text, the future government would make the Ministry of Economics as the institution responsible for the employment policy and Ministry of Welfare as the institution responsible for child support policy. Another ministry would be made responsible for the development of the information and communication technologies policy.

Political parties are committed to developing the government declaration and action plan following the signing of this memorandum. In those documents it is planned to outline the aforementioned and other priorities and tasks of the future government.

The post Coalition parties in Latvia list numerous directions for the next four years in government declaration appeared first on Baltic News Network - News from Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020221103eib3000b5


Lithuanian formin thanks diplomats for their principled support for Ukraine
BNS/TBT Staff
330 字
2022 年 11 月 7 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2022 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis has thanked diplomats for their principled work and contribution to pooling international support for Ukraine and supporting the existing sanction policy against Russia for attacking Ukraine.

On Monday, on the occasion of the 104th anniversary of Lithuania's diplomatic service, Landsbergis congratulated Lithuanian diplomats and all those who work and are working in the diplomatic service and "thanked them for their focused work and principled attitude in a very difficult period for the whole world", the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

The unprecedented war launched by Russia in Ukraine has created a whole new set of challenges and prompted Lithuanian diplomats to act swiftly and dynamically to pool all possible assistance to Ukraine, Landsbergis said.

"Over the past year, we have devoted a great deal of time and energy to manage the crises that authoritarian regimes have created and tried to drag the world into. These crises and challenges have often pushed us into new and uncharted territory of political action. They have tested – and streamlined – our values. They have forced us to grow, to learn new and mobilize forgotten skills," the foreign minister said.

In his words, in the face of these challenges, it’s vital to act swiftly, dynamically and creatively "to prevent ourselves from being swamped by the waves of the crisis".

"Our focused work and principled foreign policy posture have brought Lithuania to the world's increasing attention. By working together, we are writing Lithuania's new history," Lithuania's top diplomat said.

Lithuania is a leading country in consolidating international support for Ukraine, Landsbergis pointed out.

"We have been and we are the architects of the European Union's sanction against Russia. We are constantly working with our partners, explaining to them to the best of our ability that there can be no issue of fatigue of providing support to Ukraine," the foreign minister said.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020221107eib70008m


Russia This Week - November 18, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 18 日, 41655 字, (英文)
Russian PM calls for increased economic cooperation with AzerbaijanRussian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin called for enhanced economic co-operation with Azerbaijan on a visit to Baku on November 17.

We see Europe fighting for its values amid Ukraine war - Zelensky
LETA
498 字
2022 年 11 月 25 日 10:44 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
KAUNAS (Lithuania), Nov 25 (LETA--BNS) - We see a united Europe fighting for its values in the face of the war in Ukraine, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says.

On Friday, he remotely addressed participants of an international symposium taking place in Lithuania's second-largest city of Kaunas.

"Now we can see Europe in action, not just only in its aspiration for justice, but protecting justice," Zelensky said. "We see Europe united not just as a set of ideas, but as a political outcome or result. Europe has learnt some lessons from its historical mistakes."

Zelensky stressed that his country is now fighting for European values and underlined that "Russia is doomed, destined to fail", despite still having missiles and using them to terrorize people.

In his words, Ukraine is and will remain a democratic country protecting European values.

"Very often I hear the same question: How Europe can help Ukraine? Of course, we are very grateful for that but (...) Europe is helping itself, it's not about helping Ukraine," Zelensky said.

The Ukrainian president also underlined that he sees no division in Europe on Russia's war in Ukraine. However, he urged EU countries to completely give up Russian energy resources.

As Russia's attack on Ukraine has been taking place for over nine months, the European Union is preparing its ninth sanction package for Moscow. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced that earlier this week but did not provide any details on what could be included in the new package.

For his part, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda has recently called on the European Commission to assess the impact of the existing EU sanctions on Russia, saying that they fail to have major impact on the country's energy sector.

BACK TO ORIGINS

Remotely addressing symposium participants, the EC president said the idea of Europe is going back to its origins.

"Today, the idea of Europe has gone back to its origins. And joining Europe has become synonymous with reclaiming your country's sovereignty from foreign oppression," she said. " For ancient Greeks, Europe wasn't just a geographic term, it meant freedom, democracy and the power in the hands of free citizens, the absence of autocracy."

Her speech came as Ukraine is seeking swift EU accession. Von de Layen said "Russia is trying to take us back in time", but those fighting for freedom won’t let that happen.

In his opening address, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda said it was rather symbolic that the event is taking place in Kaunas "a city, where – throughout history and onwards – the European identity reaches its full potential".

In his words, the symposium "should encourage not only a rethinking of the idea of Europe, but also a discussion on its possible future".

"This idea may not be implemented quickly, but it will be a reminder of the intellectual effort that drives us forward," the president stressed.

37333933313942332D363546352D3444

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020221125eibp0015p


Baltic, Polish culture ministers call for limiting use of EU satellites for Russian propaganda
LETA
285 字
2022 年 11 月 29 日 16:58 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
VILNIUS, Nov 29 (LETA--BNS) – Lithuanian Culture Minister Simonas Kairys and his Latvian, Estonian and Polish counterparts have called for limiting the use of satellites the EU's jurisdiction for Russian propaganda outside Europe.

The ministers urged the European Commission to make the move at a meeting of EU culture ministers in Brussels on Tuesday, the Lithuanian Culture Ministry said.

"We call on the European Commission to ensure, within its competence, that European satellite service providers stop broadcasting Kremlin-controlled propaganda channels via satellites. We also call on all member states to continue to ensure full compliance with the sanction regime," the joint statement reads.

Kairys also stressed that "a free, strong Ukraine in Europe, having preserved its culture and history" is countries' common aspiration.

"We are currently working together with other countries in the region within various formats to draw attention to the decades-long falsification of history by the aggressor Russia. Today, Russia is particularly aggressive in spreading lies, propaganda and disinformation," Kairys said.

"An adequate assessment of Soviet crimes and the lessons of history must serve us well in preventing the myths that Russia is spreading today. It's important for the world to properly assess the Soviet Holodomor and recognize it as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. Lithuania did so back in 2005," he said.

Kairys also expressed his support for the creation of a common European fund to support the Ukrainian cultural sector, and also informed about the Lithuanian government's fund for the restoration of Ukraine and plans to restore at least one Ukrainian cultural object with the help of this fund.

32413631393336312D353839432D3431

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020221129eibt0030d


Ministers of Estonia, Lithuania, Poland highlight importance of price cap on Russian oil
BNS/TBT Staff
296 字
2022 年 12 月 5 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2022 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
TALLINN - The ministers of European Affairs of Estonia, Lithuania and Poland made a joint statement on Saturday welcoming a price cap agreement geared at reducing Russia's oil revenues while mitigating the adverse consequences of the price cap on the supply of energy to third states.

The statement was signed from Estonia's side by Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu.

The initial price cap of 60 US dollars per barrel is the result of long negotiations within G7 and the European Union. The price cap will ensure the efficiency of the sanctions established against Russia.

"We have made every effort to ensure that the main goal of the oil price gap, which is to limit Russian oil revenues, is achieved," the three countries' ministers said in their joint statement.

"The oil price cap, introduced on our proposal, will be reviewed in every two months to respond to developments in the market and to guarantee that the price cap will be at least 5 percent below the average market price for Russian oil. We highlight that we will work further to completely stop Russia's profit from oil sales.

The oil price cap is just one element of the response to Russia's aggression against Ukraine.

"We need to continue providing our support to Ukraine by cutting off Russia's ability to finance the war, including taking into use Russian frozen assets and imposing effective sanctions. We welcome President von der Leyen's statement that the European Union is working with full speed on the next package of sanctions against Russia. We reiterate the importance of the swift adaptation of the ninth sanction package," they said.

Click to view image[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/156468_50147744638e2c56055d9_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020221205eic5000b5


Baltics, Poland block new Russia sanctions over food export exemptions
LETA
619 字
2022 年 12 月 15 日 10:58 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
VILNIUS, Dec 15 (LETA--BNS) - The Baltic states and Poland on Thursday blocked the adoption of new sanctions for Russia over the exemptions for grain and fertilizer exports, proposed by Western countries, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis says.

The exemptions proposed by Germany, France and the Netherlands could provide a loophole to circumvent sanctions, he said.

"Half an hour ago, Lithuania and Poland suspended the adoption of the package, and that discussion might be moved to the European Council," Landsbergis told reporters at the Seimas on Thursday.

"If a political loophole of this size was made, backed by all EU countries, I think it would be used not only to deal with those specific cases, but also, probably, to circumvent the sanctions," Lithuania's top diplomat said.

Lithuania and Poland suspended the adoption of the ninth package, Landsbergis said, adding that the other Baltic states backed such a position.

"We coordinated, and I always explained my arguments to everybody. This position received direct support in principle from the Baltic countries and Poland," the foreign minister said.

The Financial Times reports that Germany, France and the Netherlands proposed the exemptions to the sanctions, and some other Western European countries also expressing their backing.

Landsbergis says the proposed exemptions weaken the ninth sanction package for Russia, set to be imposed amid Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine.

"In our view, the envisioned exceptions in fact very much reduce the significance of the ninth package," he said.

He did not name the countries proposing exceptions: "I don't want to declare that, perhaps, because I have expectations that maybe it is not the final opinion".

Initially, exemptions were proposed for 1,500 Russian private individuals and companies, but the list was later shortened, Landsbergis said.

"Initially, we had a list of 1,500 individuals and companies. Now it has been narrowed down a little bit, and they will see their private funds freed up, if states establish that those funds were linked to food security. It's hard to say exactly how oligarchs' private funds could be linked to food security, and we have raised this issue," Landsbergis said.

Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte says that Russia is trying to use the narrative that the existing EU sanctions are impeding exports of agricultural produce to third world countries.

"There's this narrative being spread by Russia around the world that the EU sanctions are somehow responsible for the rise in food prices, especially in third world countries, when everybody knows perfectly well that no agricultural produce is sanctioned and that this is in no way connected. Sanctioned are some oligarchs and companies linked to the fertilizer business," she told reporters at the Seimas on Thursday.

As Western EU countries fear that the latest sanctions for Russia will hamper trade in grain and fertilizers and propose exemptions for these transactions, Landsbergis says the European Commission's interpretation could be used in specific cases, just as it was done in the case of the Kaliningrad transit via Lithuania.

"We understand our European partners' concern in some specific cases where there may be certain problems, where banks accept payments, accept transit-related payments, or other things. However, our government believes such specific cases can certainly be resolved based on the European Commission's clarification, as was Lithuania's case" Landsbergis said.

According to the Financial Times, Spain, Belgium and Portugal also backed the document proposing the exemptions.

The document states that shipments are sometimes getting held in European ports for longer than is necessary because companies are worried about taking part in transactions with Russian groups that are owned by individuals under the sanctions.

34384130363239392D384438352D3441

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020221215eicf001jl


Lithuanian president vows to raise Russian sanction exemption issue at EC
BNS/TBT Staff
365 字
2022 年 12 月 15 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2022 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – As some EU states propose exemptions for fertilizer and grain exports in the latest sanction package for Russia, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda says Lithuania and some of its partners object to this proposal and he vows raise the issue at the European Council.

"The sanction issue is not on the EC agenda, but the president will raise this issue during the leaders' discussion," Tomas Berzinskas, a presidential adviser, told BNS on Thursday.

Nauseda himself stressed that food security should not be a cover for weakening sanctions for Russia.

"The 9th sanction package is on its way. Food security shouldn't be used as cover for weakening our sanctions! Sanctioned Russian oligarchs should not get access to their frozen funds and continue building wealth while Ukrainian civilians are dying under Russian bombs," Nauseda tweeted ahead of the EC meeting.

According to Berzinskas, the president expects a decision on the 9th sanction package to be made soon in the Committee of the Permanent Representatives of the Governments of the Member States to the European Union (COREPER).

Speaking to reporters ahead of the EC meeting in Brussels, Nauseda stressed that support for Ukraine remains a priority on the political agenda, and he welcomed the decision to include Lithuania's proposals on 200 legal and natural persons, four "disinformation channels" and three banks in the EU's 9th sanction package for Russia.

"We are a little bit concerned about attempts to relax the mechanism of sanctions with the cover of food security. Food security is important, but it should not be used as an excuse for relaxation of sanctions," the Lithuanian leader said.

Earlier in the day, the Baltic states and Poland on Thursday blocked the adoption of new sanctions for Russia over the exemptions for grain and fertilizer exports, proposed by Western countries, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis says, adding that the exemptions proposed by Germany, France and the Netherlands could provide a loophole to circumvent sanctions.

The Financial Times reports that Germany, France and the Netherlands proposed the exemptions to the sanctions, and some other Western European countries also expressing their backing.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020221215eicf0000a


News · Society
Russia’s Sputnik Lithuania editor Marat Kasem arrested in Riga over espionage, sanction violation suspicions
186 字
2023 年 1 月 6 日
Novaya Gazeta. Europe
NOVZE
英文
© 2023. Novaja Gazeta - Europe.
Security services have detained Marat Kasem, a news executive for Russia-sponsored Sputnik Lithuania media outlet, in Riga, he is suspected of espionage and violating economic sanctions, RIA Novosti reports[https://t.me/rian_ru/190597].

Marat Kasem at SPIEF[https://novayagazeta.eu/static/records/24479a3eb1174694ba2d3f8b59f54868.jpeg]

RT notes[https://t.me/rt_russian/142249] that a court hearing took place on 5 January where he was sent to the Riga Central Prison.

Sources say that Kasem is a Latvian citizen but he lived and worked in Moscow for several years. The news editor returned home on 30 December for family reasons. He is facing up to 20 years in prison in Latvia.

Head of the Rossiya Segodnya media group Dmitry Kiselyov blasted[https://t.me/rian_ru/190601] Kasem’s arrest as “absurd and wrongful”.

“This is revenge of dictatorship regimes for his freedom, for his truth, and for his principled position,” spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry Maria Zakharova noted[https://t.me/MariaVladimirovnaZakharova/4528].

In 2019, Kasem was kicked out of Lithuania, banned from entering the country for 5 years, and then deported to Latvia. He was deemed “a national security threat”.

Click to view image[https://novayagazeta.eu/static/records/167d25167da94406963a0fa4a8dd4410.jpeg]

Novaja Gazeta - Europe

文件 NOVZE00020230106ej1600002


Economy
Minsk ready to consider proposals by Lithuanian, Latvian ports to transship Belarusian export cargo
473 字
2023 年 1 月 6 日
PrimePress News
PRPREN
英文
© Copyright PrimePress
MINSK, Jan 5 - PrimePress. Belarus is ready to consider proposals by Lithuanian and Latvian ports to transship export cargo, First Deputy Prime Minister of Belarus Nikolay Snopkov told reporters on 5 January.

“If we get signals concerning Baltic ports, in particular, Klaipeda and Ventspils, we will think about it. We will have to look at the terms we are offered,” the state information agency BelTA reports citing Snopkov as saying.

In his words, Belarus is not experiencing problems with shipping cargoes via Russian sea ports, the available infrastructure is sufficient. During 2022, Belarus did groundwork to analyze various options and routes, calculate tariffs and handling costs. “Today we have port infrastructure for Belarus’ entire essential export (oil products and potash fertilizers constitute 80% of it). We have sufficient port infrastructure in order to transport the entire volume of our exports,” Snopkov said.

In his words, the Belarusian side is satisfied both with tariffs and the cost of transshipment. “It is possible to further develop [own port infrastructure] if it is interesting from the economic point of view. As a matter of principle, a port is an excellent business model. It is an economically effective product. I think we will consider further and form new port capabilities of the Belarusian national port with all the opportunities and prospects that go with it,” Snopkov said.

After the August 2020 presidential election in Belarus, the EU, UK, U.S. and Canada have been gradually imposing sanctions against Belarusian officials as well as individual businesses, accusing Minsk of election rigging, abuse of human rights and complicity in Russia’s military operation in Ukraine. Western countries adopted sectoral sanctions targeting Belarus’ potash, financial, petrochemical and tobacco industries. Russia is also facing large-scale sanctions.

After a meeting with Putin in the Kremlin on 18 February 2022, Lukashenko told reporters that Putin had ordered the government to start the construction of a port near St. Petersburg to transship Belarusian goods. On 5 March 2022, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko said that Belarus would have ports on the Russian coast of the Baltic Sea within two years. The parties have reached an agreement on transhipment of export cargoes from Belarus through any Russian ports.

Belarus previously used Lithuania’s transport infrastructure to export its products. From 1 February 2022, in accordance with the decision of the Lithuanian government, LTG (Lithuanian Railways) stopped transporting Belarusian potash due to US sanctions against Belaruskali, which took effect on 8 December 2021. On 17 May, Lithuanian Railways also notified Belarusian Railways on the termination of transportation of the goods under sanction - timber products, rubber products, ferrous metals - from 4 June. EU sanctions against these commodities were introduced on 2 March 2022 and took effect on 4 June 2022. End

PrimePress Limited

文件 PRPREN0020230106ej160000a


RSF - Russian exile TV channel Dozhd allowed to broadcast from the Netherlands
RSF - Reporters sans frontières published this content on 10 Jan 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 11 Jan 2023 14:02:32 UTC.
624 字
2023 年 1 月 10 日
Science, Education and Non-profit Organizations News via PUBT
SENPO
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format

Russian exile TV channel Dozhd allowed to broadcast from the Netherlands

Reporters Without Borders (RSF) hails the Dutch media regulator's decision to issue Russian exile TV channel Dozhd ( TV Rain ) with a licence to broadcast throughout the European Union from the Netherlands. RSF also hopes this will improve the chances of the Latvian judicial system accepting to review Dozhd's appeal of the Baltic state's recent decision to rescind its licence to broadcast from Riga.

Read in Russian / Читать на русском[https://rsf.org/sites/default/files/medias/file/2023/01/RUSSIE%20__%202023_01_10%20__%20Dojd%20en%20Lettonie%20%2B%20licence%20Pays-Bas%20RUS%20%281%29.pdf]

Prevented from broadcasting from its base in Latvia since 6 December, Dozhd has just announced that it plans to move most of its editorial staff to Amsterdam in response to the Dutch regulator's decision on 22 December to allow the independent channel forced into exile to broadcast on European cable TV networks for five years.

"This is very good news for the fight against Russian disinformation," said Jeanne Cavelier, the head of RSF's Eastern Europe and Central Asia desk. "On the pretext of combatting Kremlin propaganda, the Latvian regulator shot itself in the foot by rescinding Dozhd's licence and thereby set a dangerous precedent. We support this TV channel and we now hope that the Latvian justice system will allow it to appeal in order to defend its reputation."

Dozhd editor-in-chief Tikhon Dziadko is scheduled to appear on January 11 before the Latvian parliament's human rights committee in a hearing of which the recording could be used by the court that will hear Dozhd 's appeal - if an appeal is allowed.

But the parliamentary committee's president, Ieva Brante, appeared to prejudge the issue on Latvian public radio this morning, when she accused Dozhd of a "lack of respect" simply because it is appealing against the withdrawal of its licence (as is its legal right).

Coming from a parliamentarian who is also a lawyer, and in a democratic country, this was a surprising view, and a concerning one for all the Russian journalists and media outlets that have found a refuge in Latvia since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.

Dozhd filed its appeal on January 9 . But the TV channel is no longer seeking to recover its Latvian licence. It just wants to explain to the court the mistakes it made that led to this sanction, one that it regards as unjust and disproportionate. " TV Rain is not a threat to Latvian national security," it said in a post on Telegram .

In order to strengthen confidence in the quality of its reporting, Dozhd also hopes to be certified soon by the Journalism Trust Initiative , which RSF launched with the aim of providing media outlets with a way to demonstrate that they comply with the highest standards of professional and ethical journalism.

Europe - Central Asia[https://rsf.org/en/region/europe-central-asia]

Russia

Découvrir le pays[https://rsf.org/en/country/russia]

Image

155/180

Score : 38.82

Europe - Central Asia[https://rsf.org/en/region/europe-central-asia]

Latvia

Découvrir le pays[https://rsf.org/en/country/latvia]

Image

22/180

Score : 79.17

Europe - Central Asia[https://rsf.org/en/region/europe-central-asia]

Netherlands

Découvrir le pays[https://rsf.org/en/country/netherlands]

Image

28/180

Score : 77.93

Publié le10.01.2023

* Europe - Central Asia[https://rsf.org/en/region/europe-central-asia]

* Russia[https://rsf.org/en/country/russia]

* Latvia[https://rsf.org/en/country/latvia]

* Netherlands[https://rsf.org/en/country/netherlands]

* Legal framework and justice system[https://rsf.org/en/subjects?types%5B%5D=586]

* Independence and pluralism[https://rsf.org/en/subjects?types%5B%5D=592]

* Models and good practices[https://rsf.org/en/subjects?types%5B%5D=593]

* News[https://rsf.org/en/news?types%5B%5D=36]

Document lié

Lire en russe / Читать на русском[https://rsf.org/sites/default/files/medias/file/2023/01/RUSSIE%20__%202023_01_10%20__%20Dojd%20en%20Lettonie%20%2B%20licence%20Pays-Bas%20RUS%20%281%29.pdf]

* Original Link[https://rsf.org/en/russian-exile-tv-channel-dozhd-allowed-broadcast-netherlands]

Disclaimer

RSF - Reporters sans frontières published this content on 10 January 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 11 January 2023 14:06:15 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 SENPO00020230111ej1a001xh


War shifts Europe's center of political gravity to EU's eastern part – Cmilyte-Nielsen
BNS/TBT Staff
269 字
2023 年 1 月 16 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – Geopolitical changes resulting from Russia's war against Ukraine have shifted the center of gravity of European politics toward the EU's eastern part and have made the region's countries a "vigilant memory for Western societies", according Viktorija Cmilyte-Nielsen, speaker of the Lithuanian parliament.

Cmilyte-Nielsen is taking part in a meeting of the Baltic and Polish in Warsaw on Monday.

"Our parliaments have a great deal of power in shaping public opinion and countering the propaganda and disinformation spread by our enemies, as well as in reminding us of the moral obligations that democracies have to shoulder," she said in a press release.

"We become a vigilant memory for Western societies, constantly reminding them that the war in Ukraine is a war against them too."

At the meeting, the parliamentary speakers of Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Poland signed a joint declaration on stepping up parliamentary cooperation in response to geopolitical threats.

Cmilyte-Nielsen noted in the press release that the center of gravity of European politics has now shifted to the EU's eastern part and that the Baltic countries and Poland had been at the forefront of initiatives to help Ukraine and to sanction Russia or Belarus even before the start of the Kremlin's full-scale invasion of Ukraine.

The Baltic states and Poland should be active wherever decisions on the future of Europe are taken, and act on all platforms that have an impact on this, including the Three Seas Initiative, according to the speaker.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230116ej1g00034


MEP Petras Auštrevicius: “A new migrant wave from Afghanistan not the worst-case scenario”
Linas Jegelevicius
1660 字
2023 年 1 月 17 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
The world is small and whatever happens in seemingly far-flung and remote regions, like Afghanistan, for example, is reverberating all over, in Europe especially. “A new migrant wave from there would be the least headache perhaps, considering the explosive – literally – nature of the ammunition stockpiles that the Taliban regime possesses,” Petras Auštrevičius, a Renew Europe euro-parliamentarian (MEP) and Chair of the EU delegation for relations with Afghanistan, told The Baltic Times Magazine.

On my way to the European Parliament to meet you I saw a clamorous picket against the Iranian regime following the death of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini, an Iranian woman, in police custody last month. The local newspaper covers seemingly have just brief annotations of the new developments of the war in Ukraine. Is it not getting overshadowed by other events, in Brussels at least?

Indeed, we have to agree that Brussels – especially it – lives in what I call a very macro world, where every major event – regardless of the place it happens – resonates, and certainly it does so in the European Parliament. Particularly, human rights issues are very sensitive here. So the picket over the death of the Iranian woman against the Iranian regime, which undermines the people’s, especially women’s rights, does not surprise me – the indignation is understandable. But the war (in Ukraine) – due to its senselessness and brutality – still stands out on most euro-parliamentarians’ agenda – we have tabled dozens of resolutions condemning the aggressor (Russia – TBT). As you know, the European Union has passed eight sanction packages against it – and adopted various assistance packages for Ukraine. Although the war has been going on for nearly a year now, some events, like the heinous attacks on civilians and a market in Avdijevka (a Ukrainian town – TBT) where at least nine people were killed this Monday, on October 10 (the interview took place on October 12 – TBT), still horrify.

Let me tell you frankly: even here in the European Parliament, some had thought that conflagrations between Russia and Ukraine are just inevitable, but, now, even those changed their mind and are focusing on the barbaric behaviour of Russia, a member of the United Nations Security Council. Considering how many friends Ukraine has made over the last eight month here in the European Parliament and worldwide, I am hopeful that the aggressor will crash and burn in its attempt to silence Ukraine and push the topic of the war onto the margins of the political agendas, which definitely would be a victory for the Kremlin propaganda. We will not allow that to happen.

As a member of the EP Committee on Foreign Affairs, do you see new geopolitical contours taking shape or emerging already, as a result of the war?

They are and they are not in favour of Russia. We all need to understand that Russia started war after a series of thorough preparations for it. It was accusing the West of neo-colonialism, that it seeks to foist its values, rules and lifestyles on what Russia calls a “Slavic world” – upon Ukraine. That the West purportedly expand the Western influence and policies and politics eastward. Moscow entered the war by justifying it by the preposterous mission to “resist” the so-called one-pole world – one dominated by the United States. Furthermore, Russia sees it as “holy”, as one being entrusted from above with withstanding the Western culture and the lifestyles, the democratisation, all of which are just propagandistic elements, of course. Yet they resonate very well with the other autocracies, in China and even in Brazil. Russia clearly wants to “sell” the ideas of the ideological warfare to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) member states (The SCO currently comprises eight Member States (China, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Pakistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan), four Observer States interested in acceding to full membership (Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran, and Mongolia - TBT) and challenge the world order and the universal Human Rights Charter – does that so minding its own interest – to justify the war – first of all.

As Chair of the EU delegation for relations with Afghanistan, are you concerned that, amid the war, the current Taliban regime is emboldened, as the international pressure has shifted to other hotspots, like Ukraine?

What happened in Afghanistan – the swift and quite chaotic withdrawal of the US troops resulting in collapse of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, something we had been supporting for years, is still a topic of debates in the European Parliament.

The biggest victims of the change are definitely Afghani women. Just thinking that, with the Taliban in power now, Afghani girls are stripped of the right to education after they complete the sixth grade, that segregation of women has reached such a new miserable low – I mean that the Taliban is set to pay Afghani women, state employees, a salary on the condition that they stay home, makes me feel extremely bad. What is going on there now in this regard is part of the Sharia law being enforced by the Taliban. Sadly, around 46 percent of all Afghans are teetering on the brink of poverty – roughly 20 million people do not make ends meet. Meanwhile, many children are starving and/or are being exploited. What strikes really horribly is that many many households still rely on growing heroine as the main means of livelihood.

What makes the country particularly dangerous now is that at least 20 terrorist organisations have found refuge in the country. Besides, some of the governors in rural areas act on their own – the Taliban is not controlling the whole country and the situation, all of which makes it unpredictable.

It is especially so considering that society will be increasingly less educated. In an impoverished society like this, various religious and radical entities and elements arise, ones trying to usurp power and the society. To sum it up, if things go really bad, Afghanistan can turn into a very dangerous state and the contours of danger are appearing now.

Notably, the European Union does not recognize the Taliban and it has not been removed from the list of terrorist organisations. Despite the situation, the European Union has its own representative in Kabul – a woman, by the way. She has started the job recently under very complicated conditions. In all, there are four EU diplomats in Kabul. Practically, they are the only officials from Europe. The Americans do not have their representation in Kabul after the pullout. However, the Red Cross and the United Nations and some other international organisations are also present there – with a minimal staff.

Notably, some of the pre-Taliban Afghani ambassadors continue operating in the European Union and they receive its recognition.

Even with the Taliban in power, the European Union continues spending million euros for humanitarian missions in Afghanistan – in the form of shipping food and medicaments. Some insignificant pecuniary EU resources also reach the country through various United Nations humanitarian missions and NGOs. We need to assist the country, especially the drought and earthquake-impacted areas, for very practical reasons – to stem new flows of migrants, which would perhaps be the least risk we can face, prevent spreading of dangerous infections and bear in mind that the Taliban has taken over huge ammunition arsenals. So if they get out of control, the stability in the region – and the world – could be in big danger.

Quite recently, I had a tele call with two Afghani youths who told me how their daily life is. Being 13 or 14, they are the families’ breadwinners, as their fathers are heavy heroine addicts and the mothers are abused by their husbands. As a rule, the “job” the children have is panhandling on the streets, which is very unsafe. The juveniles told me if they fail to bring the amount of money the father had told them to, they are beaten. That’s how life is for thousands of children there.

You are part of the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly, an inter-parliamentary forum in which members of the European Parliament and the national parliaments of Ukraine, Moldova, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia (Sakartvelo) participate and forge closer political and economic ties with the European Union. Do you think the format is still functional with Ukraine having been given status of candidate to the European Union, with Sakartvelo having received a cold-showered “no” from the bloc, with Belarus being in Russia’s orbit and Armenia and Azerbaijan shedding blood in Nagorno Karabakh?

The essence of the Euronest and of all the Eastern Partnership lies in regional cooperation. Within the Euronest framework, the EU works very intensely with each country in it. Indeed, the countries are on a different level in terms of EU cooperation – Ukraine, Moldova and Sakartvelo are more advanced in the EU membership quest. Ukraine says – rightly so, I believe – it has overgrown the format and should be put on the EU enlargement plan. But, to my surprise, Ukraine did not show up on the report of Oliver Varhelyi, the European Commission’s Commissioner of Neighbourhood and Enlargement, on the EU enlargement package during 2020-2022 (it was announced on October 12 – TBT). He promised, though, that Ukraine will be included in it next year.

Meanwhile, Armenia and Azerbaijan, in the eyes of the EU, are in a very complicated situation due to the ongoing conflict around Nagorno Karabakh. The former still keeps looking at and depends on Russia, while the latter prefers dealing in economy and energy issues with the European Union. If we get rid of the Euronest format, security would suffer, as well as the interborder cooperation and understanding.

Regional cooperation has been one of the key elements in the European Union and we need to foster it.

Photo: Petras Auštrevičius is a Renew Europe euro-parliamentarian (MEP) from Lithuania and Chair of the EU delegation for relations with Afghanistan[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/156921_64038846363c6db64410ec_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230117ej1h00005


Dominating the capacity game: Avia Solutions Group CEO Jonas Janukenas from local challenges to global achievements
Linas Jegelevicius
2273 字
2023 年 1 月 18 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
Avia Solutions Group, is a leading end-to-end capacity solutions for passenger and cargo airlines provider, majority-owned by a Lithuanian businessman, Gediminas Ziemelis, and run by Lithuanian managers. The Group that manages over 100 offices and production facilities, with over 9,500 highly skilled professionals on the payroll worldwide and serving more than 2,000 clients throughout Europe, Asia, North America, Australia, and far beyond, can be Lithuania’s best introducer, yet, sometimes it is not enough. “Indeed, we see certain institutional inertia towards us, I would assume due to the importance of the industry we represent. In the Baltics, and especially in Lithuania, there is a lot of our Group’s brainpower, but there are no local brand names under it. Hence, being a worldwide multi-sector avia business, we are very little known to the local public,” Jonas Janukenas, CEO and Member of the Board of Directors of Avia Solutions Group, told The Baltic Times Magazine.

Under his auspices, Avia Solutions Group holds more than 500 licenses for its constantly growing range of activities across multiple business sectors and the Group’s vast portfolio of services includes ACMI (Aircraft, Crew, Maintenance, and Insurance) leasing and cargo operations, trading, MRO services, business aviation and VIP airline procurement, charter and cargo aviation, pilot and crew training, recruitment services, along with multiple additional services across a wide range of associated operations. Janukenas kindly agreed to answer the questions.

You’ve been with Avia Solutions Group for nearly six years now. What do you find the most fascinating about the stint?

Being head of such a big aerospace services group is really a unique experience. When we speak about aviation, we are not limited by physical borders and boundaries. I understand that sounds like a cliché, but that’s how it is. So, essentially, our market is the whole world – endless and limitless. As an airline capacity and service provider, we estimate that the global passenger and cargo spending is close to USD $1 trillion and view it as a potential market size. Few other industries can boast such statistics when speaking about their markets. Unlike many other markets, aviation is regulated pretty much the same everywhere – be it Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East or Africa. So again, the possibilities are endless.

Avia Solutions Group could be the national pride, the business card of Lithuania, but, in recent years, the company often had to stave off the suspicions or accusations of some media or individuals over the company's alleged ties with Russia, now China. What do you make of it?

As a group with a service center in Lithuania, our eyes have always been on the Western markets. Of all our turnover, the share of services provided to Lithuanian companies is less than one percent. Of course, we realise where we come from – we are proud of our roots, Lithuania, and we are well aware of tense geopolitics. Indeed, we react sensitively to any speculations, interpretations or accusations. And yet it still hurts when false information is spread. The Russian chapter of our business is long closed for us. And we stand firm with this decision.

It is true that, like many companies from around the world, Avia Solutions Group has had historic business in Russia – specifically as a minority shareholder in the construction of a passenger terminal at Zhukovsky Airport. We have always been transparent about this and the information has always been available to the public.

In 2018 we withdrew from the project due to the escalating tensions between Russia and Western countries, clearly demonstrating that our focus was very much on developments in the West, and out of Russia.

Besides, on the second day of the war in Ukraine, Avia Solutions Group, and our subsidiaries, terminated all operations in Russia. All Russia-based clients and suppliers were blocked in Avia Solutions Group Client’s database and blacklisted Group-wide. The Group had been decreasing this share of business since the Russian annexation of Crimea in 2014.

As a matter of fact, we never earned any material profits while operating in the Russian market. All expansion was financed by the proceeds from former stock exchange listings totaling to €57M back in 2011-2014, bonds issue in 2019 on Dublin Stock Exchange (USD $300M) and structured equity investment in 2021 (€300M), totaling to almost €657M.

Until recently, our share of the revenue from the CIS market (the Commonwealth of Independent States, CIS – TBT) was around 3-4 percent of our total revenue – really not a tangible number.

When it comes to China, we still retain some business activities there, but we have taken geopolitics into consideration and reevaluated our expansion plans to follow the sanction list completely. Over the first 9 months of 2022, only 0,5% of the whole group’s revenue came from the region.

Furthermore, when it comes to sanctioning compliance, we are even more stringent than others – roughly 20 people in our Group work on sanction compliance.

Not only the two mentioned countries are of our concern. As a global business, we interact with more than 150 countries, so we need to be careful whom we are dealing with. Daily. When being a global aviation industry player, trusted and reliable, we and any other company of our size will inexorably run into a situation where some countries are acceptable geopolitically and (where) others are not. That’s how it is, we respect it and comply with such requirements and, we do not even make a very big deal out of it. Especially, since for the last five years or so, our main market has been Western Europe, which generates roughly 80 percent of our revenue and where around 60 percent of our physical workforce is.

Geopolitics seem to constrain your growth and search for new markets. Does it not?

Since our main income stream comes from Western Europe and the US, there wasn’t a big impact on us per se. But we have to find new growth areas nevertheless – South Asia and Latin America are two of the regions we are looking into. To stay competitive among the other well-known worldwide providers, we have to be there. At Avia Solutions Group, we realize very well that we can find ourselves in situations where some of the countries there may not be geopolitically acceptable. While this might cause us to miss out on development opportunities, we never look for ways to cut corners and fully comply with all requirements and sanctions.. That’s the reality that any company of our size comes across. Even as the West is pivoting from working with China, for example, companies are still looking for supplies in South-eastern Asia, like Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia and the other countries in the region. Importantly, the countries’ growth and the populations’ well-being depend significantly on how the local aviation sector does.

I reckon that some other developing and emerging markets you did not mention, say, Brazil, Pakistan or India, can also end up in hot water – for one reason or another. Are you now more cautious when planning your future investments?

Well, many things happen, happened and can happen. Just over the last two years, we had the COVID-induced crisis, then the war. Partly due to crises, Avia Solutions Group expanded more actively over the last two years in Western Europe and, currently, in the United States, where we tangibly increased our headcount. On certain services, we expanded to Canada and we are continuing to strengthen our presence there. Shortly, the developing and mature markets will remain the core of our activity.

If permitted, we will be doing business with a number of countries in Africa, Southeast Asia, Middle East, i.e. the markets in the eyes of all other companies in our fields. Being barred from operating in some of them would, again, mean missing out on growth. Despite their risky political environment, the potential the regions and the countries have is big. For example, due to positive demographics of the continent and improving safety and security, Africa is expected to become a hub for travel growth in the upcommings decades.

Last year, Avia Solutions Group entered into a strategic partnership with Certares Management LLC, a leading US-based investment specialist dedicated to the travel, tourism and hospitality sectors, in which Certares will provide your Group a 300 million euro structured equity investment. Isn’t it the largest investment Lithuania has ever had after the restoration of independence in 1990? How will Avia Solutions Group benefit from it?

To my understanding, it might well be. As a group with a representative office in Lithuania,we are very proud of the investment, that is for sure. I see it as a sign of appreciation for our business and performance. The acknowledgement is especially dear, as the investor is well-known and trusted.

The investment strengthened our capital base and will boost our further expansion in services in passenger and cargo aviation, maintenance and engineering, crew training, ground handling, and logistics.

The COVID pandemic has been bad for most, and Avia Solutions Group is not an exception. In 2020, your Group posted a 52 million euro loss before rebounding in the following years. How did the contingency prompt you to adapt and adjust your business models?

Indeed, unlike geopolitics, that was something that no one could foresee. You are right – it was difficult for the entire aviation sector. Yet we weathered the pandemic much better than some other aviation industry companies. Unlike others, we did not receive any specific state aid during the public health crisis. Many big European aviation names received tangible state aid to survive through it. Passenger traffic was extremely heavily affected – in some months, the number of passengers had plummeted 10-20 percent against the pre-pandemic level, which could put in jeopardy any passenger aviation-related business.

I am proud that we survived on our own. Before the pandemic, we were still heavily relying on the supplying capacity to passenger airlines – big names were still selling tickets and flying with us – we were providing aircraft, crew, maintenance, insurance (i.e. ACMI). But, luckily, before the pandemic, our Group had already pivoted partially to the cargo aviation sector, which was essential during the pandemic. Anyone who carried goods during it did very well – the cargo volumes went through the roof, ours as well. In the second half of 2021, with no clear signs that the passenger aviation sector will soon get back to normal, we started to increase our capacities for the passenger airlines we were working with. In the peak season of 2022, Avia Solutions Group was already flying 140 aircraft, which is significantly more than the Baltic regional air carrier airBaltic (approximately 40 aircraft – TBT) has. For comparison, Polish LOT’s aircraft fleet consists of around 74 aircraft, SAS has a little over 80 aircraft. And we’re not about to stop – we are further increasing our capacity both in passenger and cargo sectors.

Aviation is a cyclical business activity, so understanding the cycles and being able to downsize in a down cycle and quickly scale up when the cycle goes up is crucial, demonstrating the foresight and strength of Avia Solutions Group.

Besides, we’ve had several acquisitions over the last couple of years. I’d like to highlight the acquisition of Bluebird Nordic in early 2020, which allowed us to step into the narrow-body ACMI cargo business. We replaced part of our old aircraft with new and more efficient and sustainable ones. Differently from the long-haul wide-body cargo business, narrow-body demand is growing fast, driven by electronic trade and others.

What do you see coming next for Avia Solutions Group?

We are still looking for other capacity providing companies to add to our business list. But, as in our case, supply creates demand, we look forward to increasing our presence in the ACMI sector.

Speaking on the whole, the European market is very seasonal – roughly 35-37 percent of passengers fly during the summer season more often than in the winter season. Hence, the tangible seasonality of our business in the European market. However, the other aforementioned markets, like that in South America or Southeast Asia or Africa, in some of which we have our foot already in or are eyeing, are the opposites, i.e. having opposite traffic patterns to those of European passengers. So, after providing our capacity to the Western airlines in summer, we have to move it to the other parts of the world in winter. Secondly, by having our passenger operations, we can leverage our cargo operations. If we were to look 10-15 years ago, the ACMI capacity supply was more of an emergency response – most of the time, there were only small avia companies with a couple of aircraft, rarely flying and responding to emergencies mostly.

They were nowhere close to serving the big aviation industry names we work with. In fact, it is we who are mainly driving the ACMI market now.

Furthermore, being a reliable supplying service provider, we create a demand for it – the airlines which had to downsize quite significantly during the COVID-19 pandemic do not always need to bring back all the capacity they once had. They can rely on our capacity, more than that: it has been a gamechanger. For the industry and us too.

Photo: Jonas Janukenas is CEO and Member of the Board of Directors of Avia Solutions Group[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/156937_187571268463c83127e3a07_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230118ej1i00001


Alexey Navalny’s Chief of Staff, Leonid Volkov: “Everyone will be surprised by how fast Russia will depart from Putin's legacy”
Gintautas Svedas
1655 字
2023 年 1 月 20 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
Leonid Volkov, chief of staff of the now imprisoned Russian opposition heavyweight, Alexey Navalny, as well as chairman of the Anti-Corruption Foundation (ACF), agreed to speak about the war in Ukraine, the cards that Vladimir Putin still holds, and Navalny himself.

As we speak in November, what cards do you believe are left for Putin in the Ukraine war?

Well, his usual one is blackmail. Nuclear blackmail, food security blackmail, cold and hunger {blackmail}, gas and grain {blackmail}, whatever else. These are old trumps he has. And he's already tried them all, with little success. He was pretty sure that the hunger blackmail would be successful. It was not. He was pretty sure that the gas blackmail would be successful. It was not. And I hope he fails with the nuclear blackmail as well. What’s next? Probably he'll think of some other forms of blackmail, but, well, we already know the pattern. Just disregard them. Just don't pay any attention.

According to a recent Washington Post article, the United States is privately urging Ukraine to participate in peace talks with Russia. What is your comment on this?

Yes, and this is wrong. Once again, we do not need negotiations for the sake of negotiations. The purpose of negotiation is to reach an agreement that will be respected. We know right now that Putin will not respect any agreement he ends up with. So why waste time on these negotiations?

So, will it be like the Minsk I and Minsk II agreements?

Minsk 3, Minsk 5, and Minsk 75. Putin will use any ceasefire, any tactical pause to prepare for a new escalation, a new war. No peace agreement with Putin will bring peace. It will only postpone the war and make things ready for a new, graver, and more bloody stage. The only peace agreement that could be concluded is a peace agreement with post-Putin Russia. In Russia, without Putin.

It is very good that we're talking about post-Putin Russia. In your recent video, on November 3 2022, you talked about potential scenarios for Russia. Do you think European countries, the US, and especially, Russians, are ready for the post-Putin era?

Of course, they are. They are so tired of Putin's era. People are ready. Russians can live without Putin perfectly and everyone will be surprised. Everyone will be surprised by how fast Russia will depart from Putin's legacy and how fast Russia will be able to build a sustainable, Eastern European-style democracy. I am sure as hell this will be possible; it will not take too much time. We know a lot about Russia's younger generation - what they want, how they feel. They want to live in a normal European country, and they know what that is. They travelled, they saw how life could be, and they wanted to achieve it. This generation of old, Soviet nostalgic KGB gerontocrats has to be wiped away. They will be gone. They are a historical mistake. The fact that they are still in power despite being 70 or older is simply a historical mistake. This mistake will be corrected.

In your opinion, were the pro-Navalny protests before his arrest helping Vladimir Putin, or were they a weapon that the opposition could use to fight the regime?

Protests were important because they gave a feeling of unity and helped fight against loneliness and optimization. And they are still important. Putin is trying to sell the idea, using his propaganda narratives, that he is supported by the vast majority of people. Putin's idea is that, like you, liberals, people who don't like me, you are "2 percent of bullshit, 2 percent of the sheet, you don't represent everyone around." How does he achieve this? Very simply, he does everything possible to silence opposing voices in the public space and in the media. So it’s possible to amplify Putin's supporters' voices enormously. One gets the feeling that everyone is talking about how great Putin is, how great the war is, how great everything is, and no one is talking. Clearest approval. So we can easily face the situation where everyone is actually against {Vladimir Putin} but they are atomized, they sit in their apartments, they watch TV, and the TV tells them everyone is supportive. This is well known. People must see each other and connect with each other at some point in time to realise that this propaganda narrative is false. It is always the most important outcome of all these protest rallies. People are confessing on social media: "We never expected there to be so many like-minded people in our small city. I never expected it, so I decided, okay, I will be so brave; I will turn out. But I thought I'd be the only one protesting, until I saw other people." This is very important. Now, is it enough to overthrow the dictatorship in a country like Russia? No. But this situation will change, so the political situation is flexible, and a moment will come when there will be better opportunities, when there will be more political turbulence and it will be possible to achieve change. This experience that people have gained, participating in those protests, seeing each other, will be very important at this moment in time. So the protest rallies are very important. They are tools to heal this learned helplessness.

Looking back, in January 2021, Navalny returned from Germany, where he received treatment after the poisoning allegedly ordered by the Kremlin. Do you think it was a good idea to actually return?

As we discussed many times, also during the movie’s post-screening Q&A, it was never an idea. It was never a matter of discussion. We never sat down to try to discuss the pros and cons. Even when he was still in a coma, we knew he would return once he recovered because he belongs there. He is a Russian politician who did nothing wrong and who represents millions of people in Russia. So many stupid things originate from situations when we try to take something out of its historical context and put it in the present context. People tend to forget the context. It happens often. What was the context in December 2020? Alexey recovered. And his supporters were asking why he wasn't returning home. Where is he? At that point in time, if he had stayed, he would have just been forgotten. Just yet another emigrant opposition politician who does not have any influence on the political situation in Russia. Who is not interesting to anyone, so how? People try to put it in the current context of 2022. Those who, if he were now away from Russia, would be more efficient. Well, even this assumption is probably wrong. I believe it's wrong. He's now actually very efficient because he's in prison. Everyone knows it. He takes enormous risks. He shares his risks with his people, the Russian people. But he manages to raise his voice and speak out, like against the war, which is important.

Do you know how Alexey Navalny is doing now, health-wise?

Well, actually, we don't know much. From what we know, mentally, he is very fit, and psychologically, he is doing OK. His health, of course, suffers because he’s in this punishment cell, which is not liveable and is very dangerous for his health. He can't do his exercise. There is not much you can do to influence the situation. We will know that he just keeps going.

Are there any prospects for his release, even though I know that his sentence has increased. Can any international organisations help?

Anything could change at any moment, but only based on Putin's personal decisions. So Alexey Navalny is President Putin's personal prisoner. There is only one person who makes the decision about what to do. This person, Vladimir Putin, is very opportunistic. He has a known track record of changing his mind based on the current situation. Tomorrow Putin may decide it is better for him to release Alexey, to use it to bargain with the West, or to do anything, and he will do so. It happened in the past, it might happen in the future. Putin is not a strategist. He is a very tactical player. We have to keep the pressure on. We have to keep Alexey's profile high. We have to keep the wolf reminded about Alexei Navalny, the number one political prisoner in the world. At some point, this will help, but as of right now, we do not see any short-term perspective for his release.

What are your and your team's future plans?

We have a huge portfolio of projects that we are developing. Some of our projects are now published, like the sanction list and the revival of Navalny offices, in virtual format, of course, but still, like a partisan movement in Russia, a guerrilla movement, so they say. Some other plans and projects are still under construction. They will be revealed soon, but we never talk about them before they were public.

If you could make one wish for yourself and for the future of Russia, what would it be?

Well, for Russia, I wish it to become a normal, regular European country without all the Imperial resentment and without this wish to play a special role on the post-Soviet political scene. For myself, to have more time to spend with my family. That’s it.

Photo: Russian opposition heavyweight, Alexey Navalny, has been sentenced to 9 years in a maximum security penal colony, serves the sentence since spring of 2022[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/156982_160381828363caf55f7a74f_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230120ej1k0002w


Klaipeda Port CEO Algis Latakas: “Our port is like a long-lasting blow-resistant punching bag”
Linas Jegelevicius
1821 字
2023 年 1 月 23 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
Like the other Baltic seaports in the Baltics, Klaipeda Seaport, one of the engines of the Lithuanian economy, has recently been dealt several blows, rolling one on another. “Indeed, the year of 2022 was quite extraordinary. But to use the rhetoric of kickboxers, our port has proven over the years to be like a long-lasting blow-resistant punching bag. Having been pummelled with punches from all sides – some of the kicks are still being thrown our way, we, nevertheless, persevered and are sailing assuredly through some major storms,” Algis Latakas, CEO of the Klaipeda State Seaport Authority that manages the Port of Klaipeda, told The Baltic Times Magazine.

The year of 2022 has been a once-in-a-lifetime experience: war rolled on the abating COVID pandemic. How did the Port of Klaipeda manage to sail through the storms?

I just want to remind the sequence of the adversities – sanctions on Belarus and the subsequent termination of transportation of Belarusian fertilizers through our port, the COVID pandemic and then the war. The silver line of the otherwise gloomy picture this year is that crises like this make us search for inner reserves, new opportunities, which we did.

Speaking of the pandemic, we did remarkably well in 2020, addressing the issue of our employees’ health, learning how to safely, public health-wise, bring cargo vessels into the port. Despite the complicated period, our port handled 47.8 million tons of cargo in 2020 and was the absolute leader among the ports of the Baltic countries, and it is basically the only port in the eastern region of the Baltic Sea which concluded the year with a cargo load increase.

For us, the consequence of the political instability in Belarus in late 2020 was the loss of roughly 2 million tons of oil products – they went to Russian seaports. Comparably, an insignificant amount of cargoes have been redirected from our port to the Estonian and, especially, the Latvian ports, which we deem them our partners, not competitors.

For example, iron ore, which, as a cargo, was problematic in our port due to environmental concerns – and which was stevedored in the terminal in central Klaipeda, now is hauled to Riga Port.

For comparison, in 2021, the volume of Belarusian fertiliser cargo stood at 32 percent in our port, while the other eight percent, or so, comprised Russian, Ukrainian and Chinese cargoes.

This year, however, the part of the Belarusian cargo was just a mere 11-12 percent of the total cargo quantity in our port.

Needless to say, with the start of war in Ukraine in late February 2022 and the subsequent sanction packages (against Russia – TBT), the 35 percent of transit cargoes we had, just disappeared.

Of course, it was a blow to us, but we took it as a signal that being just mostly a transit port cannot work for us any longer.

Considering what happened, we were predicting a gloomy end of 2022 in our port. However, we’re finishing the year much better than we were expecting – the general cargo handling volumes in the Port of Klaipeda in 2022 fell 19.7% during 10 months of the year, yea-on-year, and was was at 30,02 million tons.

Against the adverse geopolitical picture, it is quite a good result. In some sectors, like liquid cargo or containerised cargo, we did even better than we expected.

What drove the container stevedoring numbers up?

The container stevedoring grew the most in the segment of general cargoes consisting of containers, ro-ro, iron and steel, metal constructions and refrigerated cargoes.

With less than a month to go till the finish of the year (the interview took place on November 29 – TBT), I am already quite convinced that, in the Port of Klaipeda, we will see a record in terms of container stevedoring. Very likely, for the first time ever, we will exceed the coveted mark of one million TEU per year. A very good landmark result.

Going back, the decision of MSC, a world leader in global container shipping, to open its hub in the Port of Klaipeda and direct its oceanic cargo vessels to it has been very important for us. Thanks to it, this year, some new routes, even as far as Pakistan, India, New York and Ecuador, have been added in the MSC’s and, subsequently, our, cargo geography.

The Port of Klaipeda has two container terminals and they have been very busy throughout the year. One of them contains a lot of American cars, some of which will travel further.

The element of stevedoring is very important for any port. What makes it complicated is the slow pace at which it can be implemented. And then you have multiple regulatory requirements, permits, budgetary requirements to follow, and so on. But those ports that invested in the improvement of their infrastructure – built additional infrastructure, explored new potential routes and so on, did win. We are among them.

Can you, please, speak of investments in the port infrastructure in 2022?

One of the latest ones was the reconstruction of quays intended for container stevedoring. It has been finished in the southern part of Klaipeda Port, in Malkų Bay, and a new depth parameter was achieved.

The investments of the Port Authority now make it feasible for UAB Klaipedos konteineriu terminalas (en. Klaipėda Container Terminal Ltd) to receive vessels of bigger parameters, of type Post Panamax (Post-panamax means vessels with an overall length greater than 1200 feet, or 366 metres and beam greater than one hundred and 160 feet, or 49 meters and a draft of up to 49.1 feet or 15.2 meters – TBT), hence, increasing stevedoring capacities and the company’s competitiveness.

Receiving vessels of bigger parameters, of type Post Panamax, for stevedoring, means not only greater attractiveness of the Klaipeda seaport, but also a more effective logistics chain for cargo consignors. Stevedoring of cargo containers is growing the fastest in Klaipeda Port at present. The exclusive conditions of dues are also applied on this type of cargoes, thus, I believe, that implementation of this project opens new competitive conditions for us.

The quay reconstructions were started in 2019 and finished in the middle of 2022. In total, the section of 781-meter length was reconstructed, erecting a new grooved wall in the quays, an extra under-crane rail for new cranes of STS type, and rainwater collection grids were reconstructed.

In other development, a Dutch company soon will start dredging works in the inner shipping channel of the Port of Klaipeda. Under the 45.8-million-euro contract, part of the inner harbour will be deepened to 15.5 metres.

Deepening of the shipping channel will enable more heavily loaded vessels to moor in the port. We see that, over the last 10 years or so, the average capacity of the ships that came to the Port of Klaipeda increased by 35 percent. Besides, the ability to accept larger ships will mean a lesser intensity of the port, which is good for environmental causes. In addition, that will be a strong boon to the competition. EU structural funds are expected to co-finance 85 percent of the harbour deepening project. The Dutch company has previously undertaken dredging works at the Klaipeda port.

Another similar project aims to deepen the outer harbour to 16 meters, thus, vessels coming to the port will be able to carry more goods and this will decrease the expenses of shipping cargo.

In future, to stay competitive, the depth will need to go up to 17 meters, but for that, compensatory environmental mechanisms need to be installed to prevent entering of saline seawater into the Curonian Lagoon, a freshwater lagoon separated from the Baltic Sea by the Curonian Spit.

To accommodate mega cruise ships, the Port of Klaipeda looks forward to shoring up the cruise ship terminal embankments, so larger cruise ships will be able to moor here. In 2022, in all, 61 cruise ships visited Klaipeda. On average, Klaipeda loses around 10 cruise ships yearly due to the inability to accept very large cruise ships. The port also looks forward to designing and, subsequently, building a new cruise ship terminal, which is slated for 2025-2026.

Will geopolitical tensions not throw Klaipeda Port’s eco sustainability goals backwards?

Sustainability objectives set out by the EU and the national legislature have been embedded in the agenda and strategies of all ports. And the Port of Klaipeda is not an exception. To comply with the regulations, by 2030, our port will need to have infrastructure that would enable it to accept electric power-driven vessels, which are already replacing coal-fired vessels.

Looking forward, the largest ports, like Antwerpian or Rotterdam, are already now exerting many efforts aimed at creating an additional value – to the port, the city they are in and the country – not through stevedoring, but by becoming industrial and energy, especially LNG and, later, hydrogen energy, distribution hubs.

Due to the limited area of Klaipeda Port, we may not be able to compete in this regard with one of the largest European seaports, though we already have an LNG terminal in the territory of the Klaipeda Port. But we’re certainly aware of the trends and furthermore – we have proceeded with the implementation of what a future seaport will look like. In May 2022, Klaipeda State Seaport Authority and Klaipeda Sea Cargo Company (Klasco) signed an investment agreement to develop the port infrastructure required for the planned development of offshore wind farms. The Port of Klaipeda, with its planned wind farm of around 700 MW in the Baltic Sea by 2030, is expected to become a crucial platform for the resources needed for this project.

Under the agreement, the Port Authority undertakes to provide the infrastructure on the Smelte peninsula to enable the development of production, assembly or storage activities for offshore wind power plants and components.

On the Smelte peninsula, the quays will be reconstructed to accommodate the loading and assembly of wind turbines. Around 20 hectares of land will be used for these activities.

Diversifying activities and creating conditions for such activities in the port that create high added value is one of the goals of the Port Authority.

The ultimate goal of the Port Authority is to develop the port’s infrastructure so that the complex of infrastructure and structure, formed together with the companies operating in the port, would generate financial return and would create added value to the state and Klaipeda city.

I am convinced we are on the right path despite the afore-mentioned adversities we’ve been dealing with and handling quite well recently.

Photo: Algis Latakas is CEO of the Klaipeda State Seaport Authority that manages the Port of Klaipeda (by Algirdas Kubaitis)[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/156992_66370128563ce8f5624f79_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230123ej1n0002v


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10781
Karolis Broga
3627 字
2023 年 1 月 23 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10781 (95187) MONDAY AFTERNOON, JANUARY 23

 

CONSERVATIVE BARTOŠEVIČIUS STANDS DOWN AS MP

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – Conservative Kristijonas Bartoševičius has announced he is standing down as member of parliament.

"Reasons are personal. I do not have any other plans,” Bartoševičius told ELTA on Monday.

Bartoševičius, elected to the Seimas under the list of the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD), said he intended to move away from politics.

In the parliament, the politician was a member of committee on culture, committee for the future and commission for addiction prevention.

The vacated MP seat would be taken by Vilius Semeška, former deputy national defence minister.

 

PROSECUTOR GENERAL ASKS SEIMAS TO LIFT BARTOŠEVIČIUS’ IMMUNITY

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – On Monday, Prosecutor General Nida Grunskienė addressed Speaker of the Seimas Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen with a request to lift MP Kristijonas Bartoševičius’ immunity amidst allegations of sexual assault against a minor.

The pre-trial investigation is reported to have been ongoing since 15 November 2022.

Article 62 of the Constitution stipulates that the person of a member of the Seimas shall be inviolable and Member of the Seimas may not be held criminally liable, arrested, nor may his freedom be otherwise restricted without the consent of the Seimas.

Conservative Bartoševičius announced earlier on Monday that he was standing down as member of parliament.

"Reasons are personal. I do not have any other plans,” Bartoševičius told ELTA on Monday.

 

LAWMAKERS DESCRIBE SUSPICIONS AGAINST MP AS SHOCKING

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – MP Kristijonas Bartoševičius announced his resignation on Monday and later the same day it transpired that the politician is suspected of sexual abuse of a minor. Other lawmakers say they are appalled by the revelations, while some even call this one of the hardest days for parliament. Chair of the Conservative party’s (TS-LKD) political group in the Seimas, Radvilė Morkūnaitė-Mikulėnienė, says she was shocked by the news.

"I am shocked. I think everyone is. I am not sure what more to say. (&) I was only told the resignation was because of personal reasons,” the politician told reporters.

The Conservative MP said the resignation means that Bartoševičius will lose immunity from prosecution, which should make law enforcement’s work easier. She added that Bartoševičius was not a member of TS-LKD but was elected to the Seimas running with the party.

Deputy Seimas Speaker Julius Sabatauskas described the suspicions against the MP as very serious despite the presumption of innocence. He also called for zero tolerance for sexual violence. Sabatauskas stated that the entire parliament has been discgraced.

Following Bartoševičius’ resignation he will be replaced by Conservative Vilius Semeška, former deputy minister of national defence.

Meanwhile, spokeswoman of the Prosecutor General’s Office Elena Martinonienė said allegations have not yet been made against Bartoševičius and he was not a suspect in the case because he still had immunity from prosecution.

Prosecutors so far will not provide more details about the case as not to hinder the investigation.

Despite the MP stepping down, Prosecutor General Nida Grunskienė still addressed the Seimas over lifting Bartoševičius’ immunity from prosecution.

The prosecutor general has informed Parliament Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen that the pre-trial investigation was launched on 15 November 2022 based on two articles of the Criminal Code: on sexual assault of a young child and sexual abuse of a person under 16 years of age. The crimes are punishable from 3 to 13 year custodial sentence.

 

EUROPEAN AND EURO-ATLANTIC INTEGRATION MOST RELIABLE SECURITY GUARANTEE FOR UKRAINE TODAY – FORMIN

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – On Friday, 20 January, security policy experts’ annual Snow Meeting 2023 took place at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which was attended by politicians, diplomats, and academic community members from Lithuania and abroad.

The meeting discussed key issues on the security policy agenda for the beginning of 2023. The discussion focused on the need to maintain and strengthen Western support for Ukraine and the priorities of the NATO summit in Vilnius on 11 and 12 July, the Foreign Ministry said in a press release.

"Our main task is to continue supporting Ukraine. We cannot give in to fatigue. The sooner Ukraine receives all the necessary equipment and ammunition, the quicker it will be able to win, defend its sovereignty and restore territorial integrity,” Lithuania’s Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said.

When speaking about Russia’s war against Ukraine, the head of Lithuania’s diplomacy called for ensuring accountability for aggression and war crimes. "We must hold the aggressor accountable, as well as all those responsible for torture, massacre and destruction in Ukraine,” Landsbergis said.

The foreign minister stressed the need to increase defence spending and invest in capabilities. According to Landsbergis, Russia is preparing for a protracted conflict, so NATO’s forward defence and allies’ commitment to defend every inch of its territory is even more relevant.

Landsbergis also noted that we should discuss Ukraine’s Euro-Atlantic aspirations ahead of the Vilnius meeting.

"Today’s most reliable security guarantee for Ukraine is its European and Euro-Atlantic integration,” the foreign minister said.

This year, the Snow Meeting, which traditionally focuses on the critical security challenges the transatlantic community is facing, was held for the sixteenth time. Politicians, senior diplomats, NATO representatives and international security policy experts were invited to attend the event.

 

FEWER LAWS ADOPTED UNDER EMERGENCY PROCEDURE THIS TERM – SEIMAS STATISTICS

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – The Parliament in the term of 2020–2024 is quite active, with 7.4 legal acts passed per a sitting, which makes it second among all the terms of parliaments in terms of the number of laws adopted.

This was found by the Research Department of the Information and Communication Department of the Office of the Seimas aftern analysing the trends in the Seimas’ legislative activities during the current term of office.

Over five sessions, the Seimas adopted 1,780 legal acts or by 200 less than the previous Seimas of 2016–2020.

In this parliamentary term, as in the previous one, the largest number of draft laws was registered by MPs, however, their contribution to the legislative process has declined considerably (with 1,383 draft laws, down from 1,980 in the previous term).

The ratio of the number of legal acts registered by MPs to the number of acts adopted in the current parliamentary term is 48.66%, which is 6.45% lower than the ratio of the number of legal acts registered by MPs to the number of the legal acts adopted in the 2016–2020 parliamentary term.

"The legislative process is clearly dominated by the Government, and the Government’s contribution this term is higher than that of the last term,” the study says.

The Cabinet initiated 65.84% of the laws adopted in the current parliamentary term (compared to 62.43% in the previous term), while MPs initiated 28.36% of all the laws passed (compared to 30.96% in the previous term).

The share of urgent and special emergency legislation in the total number of legislative acts adopted has clearly decreased: urgent and special emergency legislation accounted for only 15.96% (284 acts) of a total of 1,780 legislative acts adopted during five sessions of the 2020–2024 legislative term. In the 2016–2020 legislative term, the emergency procedure was used for the adoption of 577 legal acts (out of 1,980 acts in total) or 29.14%.

In the current parliamentary term, the Government has initiated a much higher number of laws adopted under the special emergency procedure than MPs, 16 (80%) and 4 (20%) respectively.

The use of the special emergency procedure for the consideration of laws (including ratification laws) has decreased significantly in all the eight terms of the Seimas so far (1992–2024). The percentage of laws debated under this procedure as a percentage of the total number of laws adopted in the 2020–2024 parliamentary term is only 1.5%. If compared to the figures for the other parliamentary terms in the same period in this respect, the highest percentage of laws debated under this procedure was observed in the 2008–2012 parliamentary term, at 61.5%.

The study on the legislative activity, published in January, is based on the information provided by the Secretariat of the Seimas on the drafted legislation registered, debated and adopted.

 

WE MUST OVERCOME OUR FEAR OF DEFEATING RUSSIA, FORMIN SAYS IN BRUSSELS

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – Head of Lithuania’s diplomacy Gabrielius Landsbergis is confident that Europe must overcome its fear of defeating Russia. The foreign minister said that in his doorstep interview ahead of the EU’s Foreign Affairs Council on Monday.

"The most important thing that we need to discuss is the fear. I believe that we have to defeat the fear of defeating Russia. When we are talking about additional sanctions, additional military assistance to Ukraine, the thing that hinders us [from] going forward is the fear of what will happen if Russia actually loses this war,” Landsbergis told reporters in Brussels.

"If we manage that fear, if we accept the fact that Russia can lose and actually has to lose in order to avoid future wars, then I believe all the other questions will be much easier answered. Then we can deliver all the weapons that Ukraine needs, and we can sanction Russia all the way in order to hinder its ability to wage the war. And we can assist Ukraine and it actually wins all the territories back,” the minister stated.

Landsbergis also said it is disappointing that not all European capitals recognise that the only outcome of the war in Ukraine is Moscow’s failure.

"If we do not prepare for Russia losing the war, then we are not serious about helping Ukraine win. If we have the power to utter the words "Ukraine winning”, there is no win-win in this war. There is win and lose. We have to admit that some side has to lose. From my side, it is Russia losing. We have to be very clear that Russia has to lose this war,” the minister noted.

Landsbergis is attending the EU’s Foreign Affairs Council on Monday set to discuss Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine and situation in the Sahel and coastal countries of West Africa.

 

FORMIN HOPES GERMANY WILL PROVIDE TANKS TO UKRAINE SOON

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – On Monday, speaking to reporters prior to the EU Foreign Affairs Council meeting in Brussels, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis once again reiterated the need to deliver tanks to Ukraine.

He said it was imperative to send all the weaponry Ukraine needs to reclaim its occupied territories, whereas Russia cannot negotiate its way out of the losing war. The minister expressed hope that discussions in Germany on the transfer of Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine will be fruitful.

"We’re seeing a vibrant debate. I hope it will be fruitful, as it has been in the past, and that Germany will send the tanks. Unfortunately, we, as those who are waiting for them to be sent, have to wait one more day,” said the head of Lithuania’s diplomacy.

Landsbergis added that the German foreign minister’s position is similar to Lithuania’s.

"I strongly support my colleague Annalena Baerbock’s position, which is very close to Lithuania’s position (&) in supporting Ukraine. (&) I hope we will not have to wait one more day before it is possible to provide tanks to Ukraine,” Landsbergis told reporters.

What is more, Lithuania’s foreign minister admitted that it would be difficult to agree at the EU Foreign Affairs Council on EUR 500 million aid for Ukraine. He said the debate was becoming political.

 

DEFENCE MIN AIMING TO HAVE FOUR DEPUTY MINISTERS

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – On Monday, the Ministry of National Defence submitted a draft resolution to the Government for the approval of an increase in the number of its deputy ministers.

The ministry seeks to have four deputy ministers instead of the incumbent three ones.

According to the ministry, the national defence minister is responsible for a number of activities, ranging from national security to monitoring and control of the Exclusive Economic Zone and the continental shelf, supervision of military transit, military service, civil national defence, intelligence and others.

Given the current geopolitical situation, the scope of international cooperation has widened significantly, the ministry noted.

"The increase of the number of deputy national defence ministers to 4 will allow redistribution of the deputy ministers’ areas of activity, ensuring effective policy shaping and implementation in the areas of competence under the Ministry of National Defence,” the ministry said in its letter.

It is the Government that takes the final decision on the ministry’s initiative.

National Defence Minister Arvydas Anušauskas hinted on the need for an additional deputy at the end of last year.

"We are one of the two ministries which has three deputy ministers only, although in terms of budgets and projects, in terms of the very different things we do, from cybersecurity to huge infrastructure projects and defence resources, these are very different areas. There is a need for perhaps another deputy minister,” he said.

At present, there is just one deputy minister serving at the National Defence Ministry, Žilvinas Tomkus.

Anušauskas’ political team was larger in the past, but over the last two months of 2022 it was left by two former deputy ministers, Margiris Abukevičius and Vilius Semeška.

 

LONGER-TERM OUTLOOK FOR TALKING EASIER IMMIGRATION REGIME NEEDED, ECONOMIST SAYS

 

Vilnius, January 23 (ELTA) – Economist Raimondas Kuodis, deputy head of the central bank, says that a suggestion to facilitate the immigration of third country nationals to Lithuania is raising many questions as it may impose a burden of attempts to use social benefits.

In their short-term interests businesses are not thinking about the economy in the long term, Kuodis noted.

"If they need to bring in 10,000 people from Central Asia because they need cheap labour somewhere in transport [sector] or somewhere else, they will try to push it through the Seimas. People who are concerned about the longer term, they have questions, whether these newcomers, for example, will bring their elderly parents with them and whether they will become a burden rather than a relief in the social system,” Kuodis told Žinių radijas on Monday.

According to the economist, more attention should be paid to the country of origin of the newcomers and their possible cultural and historical links to Lithuania. This, he said, can determine how these people will act in Lithuania and whether they will bring the expected benefits.

Kuodis argued that, given today’s geopolitical context, the aim should be not to attract foreign nationals, but to bring back home the Lithuanians who have left the country due to economic reasons. In his view, this would allow avoiding the problems that new immigrants could cause.

"The priority should be given to bringing back fellow nationals who fled to londons not out of goodwill, but because they could not find jobs here. Now there are really good conditions here, there are enough well-paid jobs for all. There is also that push of immigrant workers out of England because of the Brexit which caused the pound to fall. We need to exploit that. There will be no side problems then,” Kuodis stated.

As earlier reported by ELTA, a parliamentary working group led by Conservative MPs Justas Džiugelis was set up last year to come up with proposals addressing Lithuania’s demographic and migration problems. The working group called for facilitating immigration from third countries, such as Kazakhstan.

As of 1 January, there were 2 million 860 thousand permanent residents in Lithuania, a yearly increase of 54 thousand. The change in the number is said to be influenced by an increase in positive net international migration. The number of immigrants exceeded that of emigrants by 72.4 thousand. Another key factor was a negative natural population change, as the number of deaths exceeded that of births by 18.4 thousand.

 

MOSCOW EXPELS ESTONIAN ENVOY OVER ‘RUSSOPHOBIA’ – MINISTRY

 

Vilnius, January 23 (AFP-ELTA) – Moscow on Monday downgraded diplomatic relations with Estonia and ordered its ambassador to leave Russia, accusing the Baltic country of "total Russophobia.”

"The ambassador of the Estonian Republic will have to leave the Russian Federation on February 7,” the foreign ministry said in a statement, adding it was also downgrading diplomatic ties.

The measures come after Estonia reduced staff levels at Russia’s embassy in Tallinn, the statement said.

 

ESTONIAN TANK PURCHASE WOULD NEED 3% OF GDP DEFENCE SPENDING – ERR

 

Tallinn, January 23 (ELTA) – If Estonia were to acquire any heavy tanks of its own, defence expenditure would need to reach 3 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) per year, Estonia’s public broadcaster ERR writes referring to ETV news show Aktuaalne kaamera (AK) citing the National Centre for Defence Investment (RKIK).

Estonia has in fact in the past considered acquiring heavy tanks, as recently as 2010, AK reported.

Capt. Erik Reinhold of the Estonian Defence Forces (EDF) told AK he had been involved in the study of the management of armour back in the 1990s, in Germany, noting improvements have subsequently been made to the Leopard 2 tank – the Main Battle Tank used by German and several other European nations.

"Quite a number of things can now be done very quickly and in close proximity to the battlefield … For example, replacing an entire engine unit in a matter of minutes is viable,” Reinhold said.

In order for Estonia to have a tank unit, defence spending must reach three percent of the gross domestic product, Karmo Saar, RKIK combat vehicles category manager, estimated.

 

LATVIAN PRESIDENT URGES GERMANY TO SEND TANKS TO UKRAINE

 

Berlin, January (dpa-ELTA) – Latvian President Egils Levits called on Chancellor Olaf Scholz to approve delivery of Germany’s highly regarded Leopard 2 battle tanks to Ukraine in an interview with German radio on Monday.

"Everything necessary must be done so that Ukraine can defend itself,” Levits told public broadcaster Deutschlandfunk. This was necessary for Europe’s security as a whole, he said, adding that this was the "almost unanimous attitude of Europe.”

"If one country does not cooperate, that is of course a problem,” Levits said.

Levits said he could not understand why Scholz could possibly be taking into account widespread German doubts about providing its tanks. Ukraine was under severe pressure and should not be denied the tanks, he said.

While Levits’ role is largely ceremonial, his responsibilities include being commander-in-chief of the Latvian armed forces.

 

SWEDISH FORMIN TO PAY VISIT TO LATVIA

 

Riga, January 23 (ELTA) – On 27 January 2023, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Latvia Edgars Rinkēvičs will welcome a working visit from Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Sweden Tobias Billström, Latvia’s Foreign Ministry said.

The officials intend to discuss the bilateral relations between Latvia and Sweden, regional cooperation and security situation in the region, including the war waged by Russia in Ukraine and assistance to Ukraine, Sweden’s accession to NATO, and the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the European Union.

As part of his stay, the Swedish foreign minister will also have a meeting with representatives from the NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence, and will visit Stockholm School of Economics in Riga.

The meeting of the two ministers will be followed by a joint press conference.

 

AIRBALTIC RECEIVES CH-AVIATION EUROPE’S SECOND YOUNGEST AIRCRAFT FLEET AWARD 2023

 

Riga, January 23 (ELTA) – Latvian airline airBaltic has been recognised by the web-based service provider ch-aviation as the winner of the Europe’s Second Youngest Aircraft Fleet Award 2023 with an average fleet age of 3.8 years, the company said in a press release.

Martin Gauss, CEO of airBaltic said: "We are glad to have been recognised among airlines with the most modern aircraft fleet in Europe. Since May 2020, we operate all of our flights with a single aircraft type – Airbus A220-300 – minimising the complexity and benefiting from the additional efficiency provided by the aircraft.”

"Airbus A220-300 is the backbone of airBaltic operations, and having a single type fleet has helped us to ensure significant connectivity to and from the Baltics. We see this aircraft type as one of our main competitive advantages which we benefit from today and in the future,” Martin Gauss added.

The ch-aviation Youngest Aircraft Fleet Award recognises airlines worldwide for keeping their fleet young, modern, and efficient. To determine which airlines currently operate the youngest aircraft fleets, ch-aviation maintains an extensive aircraft database consisting of more than 4,800 active operators and more than 69,000 aircraft worldwide.

Since introduction of the first Airbus A220-300 aircraft in late 2016, airBaltic has carried nearly 10,500,000 passengers on the aircraft type. Airbus A220-300’s of the airline have completed more than 120,000 flights and flown over 263,000 block hours.

Since May 2020, airBaltic operates all its flights with a single aircraft type – Airbus A220-300. The aircraft has performed beyond the company’s expectations, delivering better overall performance, fuel efficiency, and convenience for both passengers and the staff. It offers an excellent flying experience with such benefits for passengers as wider seats, larger windows, more hand luggage space in the cabin, improved lavatories, and much more.

In addition, the A220-300 is also considerably quieter – with a four times smaller noise footprint. Moreover, at the moment, it is the greenest commercial aircraft in the world, as it is the first aircraft to have a transparent declaration of the life-cycle environmental impact, helping to reduce CO2 and NOX emissions by 20% and 50% respectively.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230123ej1n001md


MEP Andrius Kubilius: “We need to do all we can to make sure that Ukraine wins. For our own good.”
Linas Jegelevicius
1796 字
2023 年 1 月 27 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
Andrius Kubilius, a Lithuanian MEP of the Group of the European People’s Party, chair of Euronest and a member of the EP’s key Committee on Foreign Affairs, has always underscored the danger for all of Europe of an authoritarian Russia. Some would downplay the caveats as exaggeration, some would heed the warnings without taking any action. But, now, the former Lithuanian Prime Minister feels having been far-seeing. “It is in the core interests of the EU to accept Ukraine, Moldova and Sakartvelo (Georgia), and then a democratic Belarus, in the bloc – their success would push Russia to transforming itself also,” the MEP told The Baltic Times Magazine.

Ukraine has been seeing un unprecedented wave of support. Yet what do you believe has been omitted, especially by the European Union, to prevent war in Ukraine?

Indeed, I have been telling my colleagues for years now that Russia has been dangerous as such and will remain a menace to all for the foreseeable future, unless it is helped to transform to democracy. Unfortunately, far from all heeded the warnings and that led to the war.

Since the beginning of the war most EU decisions regarding Ukraine were ad hoc, i.e. addressing the concrete situation. In terms of assistance to Ukraine, it is the United States, not the European Union that takes the leader’s position.

Although eight Russian sanction packages are in place, the next step for the European Union, I believe, should be systemic decisions, especially considering that war can take place longer than most expect. This means that the European nations need to plan their Ukraine-aimed ammunition production and logistics, long term financing, etc. If they do this, they will not need to search for them frenetically in their stockpiles when a conflagration like this breaks out.

Speaking of the sanctions, I believe they do effect Russia, especially the first ones, which effectively stopped Russian gas and oil exports. Let me remind you that, before the war, Russia’s gas export to the European Union amounted to 41% and, as of the time of the interview (it took place on October 12 – TBT) it is at a mere 7.5% and continues to edge down.

Russia’s high-tech imports have also been dealt a big blow – some of the technologies, like the Taiwanese chips which are necessary in the production of Russian weaponry, are just no longer available and are hardly replaceable with the local production. No wonder that, now, to believe the press, Russia uses the derelict Soviet-era kukuruzniks (the Russian word is derived from "kukuruza", maize. During the Soviet era, it was used as a nickname for the utility aircraft used extensively in agriculture – TBT) in war.

The European Union will likely adopt new sanction packages against Russia, but, understandably, they will not be anywhere as harsh and inflicting damage to its core economic interests as the first ones. Simply because there is little left to sanction.

In the European Parliament, I have been insisting on setting up ad hoc an international Special Tribunal for Russian crimes of war aggression. It would be different than those existing courts already, like that in Hague, which are in charge of war crimes mostly.

You have always been known for your tough stance on Russia – even in much better times. Here in your MP bureau, I see the sheet of paper on the stand – likely to have been used by you for a small number of your visitors – with the inscription in capital letters “How to stop Putin?” written by hand. Is he stoppable? And as a member of the EP Committee on Foreign Affairs, can you be sure that with a change of regime, the new Russian leader will be more predictable and democratic?

Let me state the status quo we have now: with the help of the West, Ukraine has stopped Russia. That’s first. Secondly, it appears Russia’s military might is nowhere where Russia had claimed it to be. Thirdly, until the recent Russian bombardment of civil Ukrainian objects – a desperate move by the perpetrator, Ukraine was gaining momentum as its military capabilities are strengthening. What I now see as essential in securing Ukraine’s advancement is providing it with the weaponry it needs.

The implementation of the above-mentioned Tribunal would also help many Russians understand Putin’s guilt. And only after that Russians can take on the dream of a new life, marked with liberties, respect and responsibility.

There are no reasons to believe that the Russians, likewise the Ukrainians and the Belarusians, do not want to live a normal life – a European life, marked with democracy and with peace.

I do believe Russia can take the path after Putin is gone. Obviously, at this point, no one can be sure how the war will evolve in the weeks and months to come, but we need to exert all effort to help Ukraine win it, as only its victory can foster a transformation in Russia – for good. Also, it may help Russians get rid of the ostensible imperial glory of Russia, an idea that Putin insistently foists on his country fellows, but which, in fact, leads to a tragedy for the country. Especially under Putin – the war is instigating various disintegrational processes within Russia itself. We see that happening already.

I do believe that if Ukraine succeeds – wins the war and rebuilds itself successfully and turns into a sustainable state, that would be the best impetus for Russians to seek change and follow the Ukrainian example. In case Putin lasts that long (to see Ukraine’s success – TBT), the Ukrainian success story would be very dangerous for him and his regime.

I believe the European Union has to try all the ways to reach out to Russia’s Democratic forces – the bulk of them live in the West – now. In doing so, we will ensure the whole country’s transition to democracy. Already now the ordinary Russians should know what their lives will look like once Russia and the European Union start cooperating on the basis of democracy. Due to the immensity of Russia, we cannot propose an EU membership for it perhaps, but in return to its abiding by law we can propose it free trade and a visa-free regime.

I understand this may sound like a fantasy to some, but there can be a new reality – sooner or later. Of course, perhaps no one can rule out that a more ruthless leader can emerge once Putin ends his rule, but not to try to help Russian transformation would be strategic mistake on our side.

As a member of the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE) and as Lithuania’s former Prime Minister under whom the idea of construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal in Lithuania was born, are you concerned about possible energy shortages and record-high prices this winter?

The bulk of the possible problematic issues lies in Germany’s significant dependency on Russian gas until very recently. To be exact, until the war, over 50 percent of Germany’s gas supply was of Russian origin. I can only regret that the Germans did not follow in the footsteps of Lithuania, which built its liquefied natural gas terminal in 2010 - 2014. On the contrary, the Germans insisted that Gazprom is a reliable partner and the whole relation was purely economic.

Obviously, Germany is now compelled to scramble to reverse the policy and find new energy sources – as quickly as possible. The challenge it is facing will definitely impact the whole energy situation in Europe. However, I am convinced that, at the end of the day, it is the European Union, not Putin, that will come out victorious from the Putin-launched energy war. As we speak, roughly 90 percent of European gas storages are filled and the Russian gas imports are historically low, as I said, in single digits. Until recently, due to the energy war, Putin thought that he will make the Europeans subservient, but we clearly see that he failed. The energy crisis will also prompt the European Union to switch to renewables faster. I have no doubt that the Baltics and Lithuania will also feel the big impetus for green energy. Unfortunately, Lithuania failed to build a safe state-of-the art nuclear power plant. I still believe that scrapping the idea was a mistake. Yet Lithuania has made a big step forward in harnessing solar and wind energy – just in 10 years or so, it can be one the greenest EU nations.

You’re chair of the European Parliament's Delegation to the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly (PA). How is the war effecting EU cooperation with the Euronest’s six countries, Ukraine, Moldova, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus and Sakartvelo (Georgia), all of which are on very different terms with the EU?

Indeed, on the one hand we have Ukraine, Moldova and Sakartvelo that eye EU memberships – the former has been granted the EU’s candidate status. Then, on the other hand, we have Armenia and Azerbaijan that are shedding blood in Nagorno Karabakh and, then, we see Belarus with an illegitimate president. I do believe that the war in Ukraine will be sort of an eye-opener for the European Union. Because of the reliance on Russian gas until recently, the EU did not have a clearly outlined policy towards Ukraine and the other Eastern Partnership countries. Now, we have a new reality – generally, we see less fear of Putin, although the war still rages and can drag out and spill over the borders. I think it is in the core interests of the EU to accept Ukraine, Moldova and Sakartvelo in the bloc – even until 2030, which, with their success, would remove them from the Russian orbit for good.

And when it comes to Belarus, Lithuania’s immediate neighbor, the victory of Ukraine over Russia will have a huge effect on it – to an extent, where change of the regime will be inevitable.

Sadly, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, the Belarusian opposition leader, is in a way overshadowed by the war. But as we speak, she is to visit the European Parliament – we need to discuss with her what Belarus’ transition to a democratic Belarus will look like. Its long-range goal should also be an EU membership, which would create much more stability and security in the region and in all of Europe.

Photo: Andrius Kubilius is a Lithuanian MEP of the Group of the European People’s Party, chair of Euronest and a member of the EP’s key Committee on Foreign Affairs[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/157058_179358592463d42d0871ef4_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230127ej1r00003


Additional restrictions to apply to goods imported from Russia from Feb. 6
BNS/TBT Staff
423 字
2023 年 2 月 1 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
TALLINN – On Feb. 5, the transitional period of sanctions imposed by the European Union on oil products from the Russian Federation will end, and their purchase and import into the EU will be prohibited from Monday, Feb. 6.

"From February 6, it is forbidden to buy, import and transfer petroleum products if they originate in Russia. The list of prohibited goods also includes fuels used in motor vehicles. It is estimated that today, about 80 percent of passenger cars, in addition to the fuel in the car's standard fuel tank, also carry a 10-liter canister with fuel when a vehicle crosses the border into Estonia for the first time," Piret Tinkus, head of the prohibitions and restrictions service of the social protection field of the customs department of the Tax and Customs Board, said in a press release.

Pursuant to legislation, an EU resident has the right to buy fuel in Russia if it is necessary to complete the trip and return to the territory of the EU. This means that the passenger has the right to import into the EU fuel that is in the vehicle's standard fuel tank and intended for use in the same vehicle.

"It is forbidden to bring into the European Union, in a fuel canister, fuel that has been bought in Russia, as such imports cannot be considered as meeting of basic needs, including the completion of a journey," said Tinkus, pointing out that the ban on importing goods in a canister applies to entry from Russia into all Baltic countries and Finland alike.

To the import of motor fuel in a standard fuel tank the restrictions on the tax-free import of fuel laid down in the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act and the VAT Act apply, meaning that the fuel in a standard fuel tank is tax-free upon first entry into Estonia. On all subsequent border crossings in the same calendar month the fuel is taxed, unless the passenger, when traveling from Estonia to Russia, has informed the customs that there is fuel in the vehicle's tank that they intend to bring back.

Pumping fuel out of a vehicle after crossing the border and handing it over for a fee or free of charge is considered a violation of the sanction. Pumping out is only allowed for the purpose of repair of the vehicle, if it is later pumped back into the vehicle.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230201ej2100036


EP emphasizes that work on Ukraine's future must begin now
Inese Trenča
451 字
2023 年 2 月 2 日 13:12 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
RIGA, Feb 2 (LETA) - Ahead of the EU-Ukraine summit, the European Parliament reaffirmed its commitment to Ukraine’s EU membership, reiterating the need for a merit-based accession process, LETA was informed by the EP's press secretary in Latvia Janis Krastins.

On Thursday, the European Parliament adopted a resolution detailing its expectations for the upcoming summit between EU and Ukrainian political leaders in Kyiv on 3 February.

Addressing Ukraine’s EU membership perspective, the text demands the EU “work towards the start of the accession negotiations and to support a roadmap outlining the next steps to enable Ukraine’s accession to the EU single market”.

Restating their commitment to Ukraine’s future EU membership following the country’s formal application on February 28, 2022, MEPs stress that accession is a merit-based process involving respect for relevant procedures, and the fulfilment of EU related reforms and accession criteria.

They also invite the Ukrainian authorities to introduce substantial reforms to effectively align with EU membership criteria as soon as possible.

The European Parliament urges EU member states to increase and accelerate their military assistance to Kyiv, in particular the provision of weapons, but also essential political, economic, infrastructural, financial and humanitarian support.

It also calls on leaders at the forthcoming EU-Ukraine summit to prioritize a comprehensive recovery package for Ukraine. This package must focus on relief, reconstruction and recovery in the short-, medium- and long-term. Support would further help encourage economic growth in Ukraine after the war.

Assessing Ukraine’s reconstruction needs, the resolution also reiterates Parliament’s call for the use of frozen assets of the Russian Central Bank as well as assets of Russian oligarchs to finance post-war reconstruction.

Emphasizing the importance of EU countries continuing to show unity in the face of Russia’s aggression, MEPs call on member states to adopt a tenth package of sanctions against Moscow as soon as possible and to continuously and proactively propose new sectors and individuals for targeting.

The European Parliament also calls for the sanctioning of companies such as Lukoil and Rosatom, which are still present on the EU market. Officials involved in a broad range of illegal activities, including forced deportations and the administration of fake referenda on occupied Ukrainian territory, should also be subject to sanction.

The resolution finally reiterates MEPs’ calls for an immediate and full embargo on EU imports of fossil fuels and uranium from Russia, and for the Nord Stream 1 and 2 gas pipelines in the Baltic Sea to be completely abandoned.

The text was adopted with 489 votes in favor, 36 against with 49 abstentions.

43383130443844352D464246302D3434

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230202ej22002p9


Lithuanian president, PM talk EU's Russia sanctions with Europe's chief prosecutor
BNS/TBT Staff
557 字
2023 年 2 月 2 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda and Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte met with visiting European Chief Prosecutor Laura Codruta Kevesi in Vilnius on Thursday and discussed the EU sanctions for Russia and the latter's accountability for war crimes in Ukraine.

The president and the prosecutor also discussed the supervision of EU funds and ensuring transparency, according to the presidential press service's press release.

Nauseda and Kovesi discussed the implementation of the existing sanctions for Russia, the need to prevent all ways of circumventing them, as well as the effective investigation of violations of the existing sanctions for Russia and Belarus.

Nauseda stressed the importance of mobilizing the international community to establish a special tribunal to investigate Russia's atrocities in Ukraine.

"The pressure on Russia needs to continue to increase and I very much hope that a tenth sanction package will be adopted soon. However, it is important to minimize the chances of circumventing or avoiding sanctions. Effective implementation of sanctions is crucial. I am, therefore, in favor of reviewing the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor’s Office to enable it to investigate violations of the sanctions imposed on Russia," Nauseda was quoted as saying in the presidential press service's release.

Earlier in the day, Kovesi met with Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte and they discussed cooperation between the Lithuanian and European Prosecutor's Offices, administrative support for the institution's activities, and its possible role in ensuring the implementation of the European Union's sanctions against Russia and Belarus, the prime minister's press service said.

The prime minister stressed that Lithuania sees the value and potential of the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office to ensure independent and effective detection of international financial crimes.

"In principle, we would welcome the possibility of extending the mandate of the European Public Prosecutor's Office so that it could oversee the implementation of the EU sanctions against Russia and Belarus. The sanctions hurt the aggressor Russia and its supporter Belarus, therefore they are and will be looking for ways to illegally circumvent them. In order to prevent these processes, we need not only national efforts but also cross-border mechanisms at the European level," Simonyte was quoted as saying in the statement.

The meeting also discussed national administrative support for the European Public Prosecutor's Office's decentralized activities which are necessary to ensure the conditions for the effective functioning of this institution and the implementation of the responsibilities entrusted to it.

Also on Thursday, the European chief prosecutor visited Lithuania's Special Investigation Service (STT) to discuss the investigations being carried out by the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO), the activities of the EPAC/EACN network, as well a ways to strengthen cooperation between the STT and the EPPO.

The European Public Prosecutor's Office launched its operations in June, 2021. It's an independent, decentralized EU agency with competence to investigate the crimes affecting the EU's financial interests.

Kovesi became the first European chief prosecutor in 2019.

Also on Thursday, Kovesi is scheduled to meet with Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda, Justice Minister Ewelina Dobrowolska. On Wednesday, she met with Lithuanian Police Commissioner General Renatas Pozela and the leadership of the Prosecutor General's Office.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230202ej220005s


Latvia says traders use Turkey, Kazakhstan, Armenia to dodge Russia sanctions
430 字
2023 年 2 月 3 日 14:36 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2023 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS (Reuters) - Traders are using Turkey, Kazakhstan and Armenia to evade European Union sanctions on Russia in a tactic that breaches these countries' compliance with the bloc's embargo, Latvia's prime minister said on Friday.

Krisjanis Karins made the assertion following talks with counterparts from fellow EU members Estonia and Lithuania, which along with Latvia have been among most vocal supporters of sanctions on Russia following its 2022 invasion of Ukraine.

"It seems quite clear that traders are finding ways to legally trade goods, say with Turkey, Kazakhstan or Armenia which are then resent to Russia, because these countries are not adhering to the sanctions regime", Karins told reporters in the Estonian capital Tallinn.

Karins pointed to a rise in European trade with the three countries which he said was "disproportionate to where it has been in the past".

He did not provide further evidence of sanctions evasion and did not specify the types of goods allegedly traded.

There was no immediate response from the foreign ministries of Turkey and Kazakhstan to requests for comment on the remarks by Karins. There was no immediate reply from Armenia's economy ministry to a request for comment.

"One (solution) is to work with these countries, to get them on board also following the sanctions. The second is to look for legislation across Europe, to make sure that we criminalize the sanction avoidance," Karins said. "Close the loopholes!"

Following the talks with Karins and Lithuanian counterpart Ingrida Simonyte, Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said a "total ban of trade" with Russia should be considered to help with sanctions avoidance.

Turkey has previously condemned Russia's invasion and sent armed drones to Ukraine. At the same time, it opposes Western sanctions on Russia and has close ties with both Moscow and Kyiv, its Black Sea neighbours.

It has also ramped up trade and tourism with Russia. Some Turkish firms have purchased or sought to buy Russian assets from Western partners pulling back due to the sanctions, while others maintain large assets in the country.

The U.S. Treasury Department's top sanctions official is on a trip to Turkey and the Middle East this week to warn countries and businesses that they could lose access to G7 markets if they do business with entities subject to U.S. curbs, as Washington cracks down on Russian attempts to evade sanctions imposed over its war in Ukraine.

(Reporting by Andrius Sytas in Vilnius, Editing by William Maclean)

Released: 2023-2-3T14:36:12.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020230203ej2302k7h


Latvia says traders use Turkey, Kazakhstan, Armenia to dodge Russia sanctions
419 字
2023 年 2 月 7 日 06:18 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Traders are using Turkey, Kazakhstan and Armenia to evade European Union sanctions on Russia in a tactic that breaches these countries' compliance with the bloc's embargo, Latvia's prime minister said on late February 3, writes Reuters.

Krisjanis Karins made the assertion following talks with counterparts from fellow EU members Estonia and Lithuania, which along with Latvia have been among most vocal supporters of sanctions on Russia following its 2022 invasion of Ukraine.

"It seems quite clear that traders are finding ways to legally trade goods, say with Turkey, Kazakhstan or Armenia which are then resent to Russia, because these countries are not adhering to the sanctions regime", Karins told reporters in the Estonian capital Tallinn.

Karins pointed to a rise in European trade with the three countries which he said was "disproportionate to where it has been in the past".

He did not provide further evidence of sanctions evasion and did not specify the types of goods allegedly traded, according to Reuters.

There was no immediate response from the foreign ministries of Turkey and Kazakhstan to requests for comment on the remarks by Karins. There was no immediate reply from Armenia's economy ministry to a request for comment.

"One [solution] is to work with these countries, to get them on board also following the sanctions. The second is to look for legislation across Europe, to make sure that we criminalise sanction avoidance," Karins said. "Close the loopholes!"

Following the talks with Karins and Lithuanian counterpart Ingrida Simonyte, Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said a "total ban of trade" with Russia should be considered to help with sanctions avoidance.

Turkey has previously condemned Russia's invasion and sent armed drones to Ukraine. At the same time, it opposes Western sanctions on Russia and has close ties with both Moscow and Kyiv, its Black Sea neighbours.

It has also ramped up trade and tourism with Russia. Some Turkish firms have purchased or sought to buy Russian assets from Western partners pulling back due to the sanctions, while others maintain large assets in the country.

The U.S. Treasury Department's top sanctions official is on a trip to Turkey and the Middle East this week to warn countries and businesses that they could lose access to G7 markets if they do business with entities subject to U.S. curbs, as Washington cracks down on Russian attempts to evade sanctions imposed over its war in Ukraine, Reuters said.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230207ej27000ma


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10806
Justina Vaišvilaitė
5358 字
2023 年 2 月 9 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10806 (95212) THURSDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 9

 

PRESIDENT TO ATTEND SPECIAL EUROPEAN COUNCIL

 

Vilnius, February 9 (ELTA) – On 9-10 February, President Gitanas Nausėda will be on a working visit to Brussels to attend a special meeting of the European Council.

The special meeting of the EU leaders is reported to focus on Ukraine’s European integration process, the economy and migration.

In Brussels, the head of state will also be meeting with King Philippe of Belgium. The meeting is intended to discuss bilateral economic and military cooperation between Lithuania and Belgium, as well as security issues, the presidency said.

 

GOVT APPROVES EUR 0.5MN AID PACKAGE TO QUAKE-HIT TÜRKIYE

 

Vilnius, February 9 (ELTA) – Responding to the urgent needs of earthquake-hit Türkiye, the Cabinet has agreed to deploy a search and rescue team and send humanitarian aid to the country, the Office of Government said in a press release.

Türkiye is continuing its rescue operations and damage repair works, requiring major international efforts.

"Türkiye faces a major disaster that requires mobilisation and assistance from the international community. Standing in solidarity, today Government of Lithuania confirmed EUR 0.5 million euro aid package to help Türkiye recover from devastating earthquake. Team of rescuers and medics will join international relief effort. Equipment and necessary supplies will be delivered as soon as possible,” Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė said after the Government’s meeting on Wednesday.

The Government approved the draft resolution submitted by the Ministry of the Interior to send a search and rescue team consisting of at least 25 Lithuanian firefighters, three State Border Guard Service dog handlers together with dogs as well as three healthcare workers to Türkiye.

In the immediate future, 90 tents, 50 electric heaters, 1,000 bedding sets, 1,000 pillows and 7,700 blankets from the state reserve of material resources managed by the Fire and Rescue Department under the Ministry of the Interior will also be delivered to Türkiye.

Medical supplies worth EUR 132,000 will also be allocated from the state reserve managed by the Ministry of Health.

The Government has also approved to allocate EUR 200,000 to Türkiye in response to an international assistance request. This amount is to be allocated in equal shares from the Government Reserve and the Lithuanian Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid Fund.

The total material value of the assistance amounts to EUR 528,000.

The National Crisis Management Centre played an inter-institutional coordination role in mobilising the assistance.

 

LITHUANIA CONDEMNS RUSSIA’S CLAIMS OF FIGHT AGAINST NAZISM TO JUSTIFY ITS AGGRESSION AGAINST UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 9 (ELTA) – At the Conference on Addressing Anti-Semitism in the OSCE region, convened by the OSCE Chairpersonship of North Macedonia in Skopje on 6-7 February 2023, Arvydas Daunoravičius, Ambassador-at-large for the Holocaust remembrance issues at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, condemned Russia’s abuse of the argument of the fight against Nazism in its attempt to justify its war of aggression against Ukraine, the ministry said in a press release.

"It is a distortion of history and a deep disrespect for the victims of the Holocaust,” Daunoravičius stressed.

He also noted that the ongoing Russia’s war against Ukraine and atrocity crimes Russia is committing made it painfully clear that hatred and cruelty does not disappear anywhere by itself.

Underscoring the need for all countries to do their utmost to fight all forms of antisemitism, Holocaust denial and distortion, Ambassador Daunoravičius reviewed Lithuania’s achievements in this regard.

Attention was drawn to steps taken by the Lithuanian Government to renew educational curricula of the history of the Holocaust to promote critical thinking and a more accurate understanding of the consequences of antisemitism. The International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) recommendations played an important role in developing this new curricula. Ambassador also announced the news that two new museums devoted to the preservation of the historical memory and heritage of the Lithuania’s Jews are being planned.

Ambassador Daunoravičius shared information about measures taken by Lithuania to restore historical justice. He noted the recent amendments of the Law of the Republic of Lithuania on Good Will Compensation for the Immovable Property of Jewish Religious Communities to provide a monetary compensation for the private realty of Lithuanian Jews that was nationalized or illegally expropriated by the Nazi and Soviet totalitarian regimes.

The annual OSCE Conference on Addressing Anti-Semitism gathered together government representatives, relevant stakeholders from international organisations, academia, civil society organisations, as well as leaders of Jewish communities to discuss challenges and good practices in addressing Anti-Semitism.

 

MEMORANDUM ON EUROPEAN STARTUP REGION ALLIANCE SIGNED IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 8 (ELTA) – On 7 February, an international cooperation conference took place in Lithuania’s capital during which a memorandum on the European Startup Region Alliance in Vilnius was signed.

Participants of the event were welcomed by Parliament Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen, Minister of the Environment Simonas Gentvilas and European Commissioner for Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth Mariya Gabriel.

Kristina Šermukšnytė-Alešiūnienė, head of AgriFood Lithuania DIH, said the organisation is consistently striving to accelerate digital transformation in agriculture, food and other related sectors. She noted that involvement of startups and other innovative business organisations is crucial striving for welfare and the reduction of social exclusion in rural areas.

She welcomed the fact that the initiative to establish the European Startup Region Alliance was supported in Europe and practical steps have been foreseen how to continue promoting innovation in EU regions and reduce the developmental gap between rural and urban areas.

European Commissioner Gabriel said the memorandum that was signed highlights everyone’s shared goal to fulfil the potential of startups in the EU’s rural areas. She believes the initiative involving political decision-makers, business and local community representatives will become an effective and powerful measure enabling to successfully implement regional revitalisation ideas. The European Commission is committed to contribute to the development of innovation and startup ecosystem in the regions by using existing financial instruments.

Meanwhile, Parliament Speaker Čmilytė-Nielsen noted that around 30% of the EU’s population lives in rural areas, which face social, health and education issues. She believes the Alliance is an important initiative that could open up the potential of rural areas and reduce the gap between small towns and large cities.

The founders of the European Startup Region Alliance hope that the initiative will contribute to innovative business development in regions, implementation of digital solutions, involvement of young people and women, increase the number of talents in rural areas and contribute to the goals of the European Green Deal.

 

EUROPEAN COMMISSIONER FOR JUSTICE VISITS LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, February 9 (ELTA) – European Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders will pay a working visit to Lithuania on Thursday.

During his stay, Reynders will discuss the EU’s ongoing support to Ukraine in various areas – energy, food, international action, migration – with representatives of Lithuanian state institutions.

The commissioner’s meetings with Lithuanian officials are also set to focus on Russia’s war crimes in Ukraine and a possible international response, including the use of confiscated and frozen Russian assets for Ukrainian purposes.

The financing of the Lithuanian judiciary to ensure its independence and the latest report on the rule of law are also high on the agenda of Commissioner Reynders’ meetings in Lithuania.

 

NO ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSING ATTEMPTS TWO DAYS IN A ROW

 

Vilnius, February 9 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) says that no illegal border crossing attempts were observed in Lithuania for a second consecutive day.

Meanwhile, Latvia reported it had denied entry to 5 foreign nationals trying to cross into the country illegally from Belarus on Wednesday.

Polish border guards turned away 48 illegal migrants on Tuesday.

According to the VSAT, this year, by 8 February, 289 migrants tried to access Lithuania from Belarus illegally.

The figure stood at 11,211 in 2022.

 

NATO EFP BATTALION BATTLE GROUP LITHUANIA TURNS SIX

 

Vilnius, February 8 (ELTA) – Next, the 13th, rotation of the NATO enhanced Forward Presence Multinational Battle Group (eFP BG), begins its deployment in Lithuania. The NATO mission and command will be transferred at a Hand Over–Take Over ceremony at the Lithuanian Great Hetman Jonušas Radvila Training Regiment at Rukla on 9 February, announced the Ministry of National Defence.

The ceremony will be attended by Deputy Minister of National Defence Žilvinas Tomkus, Chief of Defence of Lithuania Lieutenant General Valdemaras Rupšys, Commander Infantry Brigade Iron Wolf Colonel Aurelijus Motiejūnas.

Germany is the framework nation of the NATO eFP Lithuania and contributes the most significant contingent, while the new eFP rotation is also formed by the military of the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway, Czech Republic, Luxembourg and Croatia. The new rotation will serve under command of Lieutenant Colonel Lars Neitzel of the Bundeswehr who will succeed Lieutenant Colonel Marc Maulbecker, commander of the 12th rotation which was in service since August.  

NATO took the decision to deploy forward presence forces at the NATO Summit in Warsaw in 2016, first forces of the combat-ready NATO unit deployed to Lithuania in the beginning of 2017. The NATO eFP BG is deployed in Rukla (Jonava region) and integrated into the Lithuanian Armed Forces Infantry Brigade Iron Wolf. Allied troops are executing a combat training cycle side by side with the Lithuanian. Germany has provided the eFP BG Lithuania command since its deployment. It is an effective measure of deterrence: NATO presence in the Baltic States and Poland is critical for regional defence in the event of military aggression. 

 

LAST YEAR TOTAL NUMBER OF FLIGHTS HANDLED IN NATIONAL AIRSPACE KEPT ON RISING

 

Vilnius, February 8 (ELTA) – Last year air navigation service provider Oro Navigacija handled 166.2 thousand flights – 1.2 percent more than the year before – within the airspace of Lithuania. Due to the imposed sanctions the airlines were forced to go round Russian airspace and change their routes, the number of overflights within Lithuanian airspace decreased by 13 percent in comparison to 2021. The growth of the total number of handled flights was determined by 52 percent increase in the number of terminal flights, reports Oro Navigacija.

In accordance with the data of public limited liability company Oro Navigacija, which provides air navigation services within the airspace of Lithuania, last year the share of overflights in comparison to 2021 comprised 67 percent of all flights, when in 2021 they accounted for 78 percent.

According to Chief Executive Officer of Oro Navigacija Saulius Batavičius, the overflights traditionally comprised the lump part of all flights handled by air traffic control officers of Lithuania.

Last year the share of the transit flights remained the most significant and reached the absolute number of 111.3 thousand, nevertheless it fell below the 70 percent mark. When estimating the changes in flight numbers per month, a very significant downfall in the number of transit flights was recorded after the sanction on Russian Federation were imposed. When the latter country started a war in Ukraine at the end of February and in returned received sanctions from the European Union, restraining the aircraft of the aggressor country from using the Union airspace, the transit flight flow which increased by 80-90 percent in comparison to 2021 during the period of January and February, started a sudden downfall and failed to recover for any of the months till the end of the year,” noted S. Batavičius.

Redrawn airways

As the airspace of Lithuania was closed for Russian airlines during the period from 27 February to 31 March last year, the number of overflights of Russian airlines fell down by 21 percent in comparison to the same period in 2021, whereas the annual statistics dropped down by 13 percent.

Russian airlines executing flights from Kaliningrad Region or to it are able to implement them using only the airspace above the high seas, certain sections of which are monitored by Lithuanian air traffic control officers as well. 

In 2022 the number of overflights executed by Finnair and Turkish Airlines increased, since due to the war in Ukraine the airlines changed their activity strategy and used Lithuanian airspace more often.

Despite the fact that China could use both European and Russian airspace, the zero COVID-19 policy introduced by this country influenced the activity of the airlines, thus, the number of overflights remained essentially unchanged.

Lithuanian leader – Vilnius Airport

In 2022 the most intensive growth in Lithuania was recorded in Vilnius International Airport which is the biggest in the country. According to the data of Oro Navigacija, last year the number of flights in Vilnius comprised 36.5 thousand or 52 percent more than during the previous year.

The number of flights in Kaunas Airport increased by 53 percent and amounted to 10.4 thousand. Whereas the number of flights in Palanga Airport last year in comparison to 2021 increased by 92 percent up to 3.7 thousand, nevertheless, this airport still remains the least busy in Lithuania.

Last year Šiauliai Airport handled 4.2 thousand flights or 54 percent more than in 2021.

"When considering only the terminal flights at the airports of the country, their total amount last year was 54.8 thousand or 52 percent higher than the year before. The numbers are also undoubtedly related to the recovery of the aviation sector after the difficult period of the pandemic. Nevertheless, these flights comprise only a small number of all the flights handled by Oro Navigacija: in 2021 they amounted to 22 percent, whereas last year they accounted for 33 percent,” noted Saulius Batavičius.

Last year the flights of Irish Ryanair airlines to and from Lithuanian airports were the most intensive. Taking into consideration the numbers of terminal flights, the biggest share was also taken by Ryanair – 14 thousand or 25.7 percent of flights. The second place was taken by Latvian airBaltic (6.3 thousand flights, 11.5 percent), the third by Hungarian Wizzair (5.1 thousand flights or 9.3 percent), the fourth – Polish LOT (3.3 thousand or 6.1 percent), the fifth – Swedish SAS (2.7 thousand flights or 4.8 percent). 

During the previous year the busiest day within the airspace of the Republic of Lithuania was recorded on Sunday, the 2nd of January. On that day navigation services were provided to 700 flights. In 2021 the busiest day for Oro Navigacija was Sunday, the 29th of August 29 – in total 528 aircraft received the services.

 

MORE THAN EUR 120MN EARMARKED FOR MODERNISATION OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 8 (ELTA) – Vilnius City Municipality’s public organisation Atnaujinkime miestą is implementing more than 100 modernisation projects of residential buildings for the total cost of more than EUR 120 million.

Renovation of several dozens of blocks of flats will commence in 2023. In the last three months, the public organisation has procured renovation works valued over EUR 43 million for 35 blocks of flats.

Data of the Central Procurement Organisation (CPO LT) show that in the last three months 76 tenders for the modernisation of blocks of flats took place in Lithuania valued a total of EUR 69 million.

Public organisation Atnaujinkime miestą plans to order modernisation works of 30 residential buildings in the first half of 2023 and 50 more until the end of the year.

The goal of Vilnius city by 2030 is to renovate half of blocks of flats that can be modernised, i.e. approximately 2,300 buildings.

 

MEMBERS SELECTED FOR NEW TERM OF IGNITIS RENEWABLES BOARD

 

Vilnius, February 8 (ELTA) – Newly selected Board members of Ignitis Renewables, an international green energy company, started a four-year term on 7 February, the company said in a press release.

Ignitis Renewables Board comprises of three members: two representatives delegated by the shareholder of the company and one independent Board member. On 7 February 2023, the shareholder of the company – Ignitis Group, approved the new Board composition.

Jonas Rimavičius, Ignitis Group Managment Board member and CFO, will supervise M&A affairs. Jonas Rimavičius is a strategic-level finance professional, who has experience working in collegial bodies of companies, international capital raising and investment projects.

Vidmantas Salietis, Ignitis Group Managment Board member and head of Group Commercial Activities, will supervise strategy and commercial affairs. Vidmantas Salietis is a professional with over a decade of experience in top-level positions in the energy sector.

Peter Overgaard will serve as an independent member and supervise renewable energy and engineering affairs. Mr Overgaard has extensive international experience in business development, energy technologies and project management. He is also the CEO of an international energy solutions company Danstoker Group. He previously held managerial positions in companies like Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy and Aalborg Engineering.

Ignitis Renewables manages renewable energy projects in the Baltics and Poland and is responsible for effective operation of wind farms, supervision of projects under construction and development of new ones. While developing new wind and solar generation projects, the company is implementing the strategic goal of Ignitis Group to increase its Green Generation portfolio.

 

ECONOMIST SAYS HOUSING AFFORDABILITY DECLINES IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 8 (ELTA) – Chief Economist at Luminor Bank Žygimantas Mauricas notes that housing affordability has declined in Vilnius. It is particularly difficult to purchase housing in Lithuania’s capital as it takes 13 average annual salaries to pay for a 60 m2 apartment, placing Vilnius just behind London and Stockholm in Northern Europe among the most expensive cities.

According to the economist, London is notorious for its high real estate prices, while Vilnius may surpass Stockholm already this year as apartment prices in Vilnius rose by 22% and salaries by 12% in 2022, whereas in Stockholm apartment prices fell by 10% and salaries increased by 3%. "Therefore, housing affordability has improved in Stockholm and deteriorated in Vilnius,” Mauricas wrote in a Facebook post.

The economist added that in 2023 apartment prices in Sweden’s capital are forecast to decrease by 10% while salaries would grow by 4%. Therefore, if housing prices do not decrease in Lithuania but average salaries rise by 8% this year, then housing affordability in the Lithuanian capital will be worse than in the Swedish capital.

Mauricas stated that housing prices in Vilnius are now similar to the majority of cities in the United Kingdom with an exception of London. According to him, apartment prices in Northern Ireland’s capital Belfast stand at around EUR 3,700 per m2 in the city centre and EUR 2,700 outside of the city centre. In Vilnius respective prices are EUR 4,000 and EUR 2,700, but salaries in Belfast are nearly twice higher than in Vilnius. "Therefore, Vilnius becomes less appealing for expatriates planning to return to Lithuania who do not own housing,” he said.

Mauricas also remarked that historically it took five-year annual salaries to purchase a 60 m2 apartment or five-year annual household salaries to purchase a 90 m2 apartment.

 

AMBER GRID STARTS RECONSTRUCTION OF VILNIUS-KAUNAS GAS PIPELINE SECTIONS

 

Vilnius, February 8 (ELTA) – Amber Grid starts the reconstruction of sections of the Vilnius-Kaunas gas pipeline, one of the most important Lithuanian gas transmission arteries. By the end of this year, it is planned to relining almost 17 km of gas pipeline sections in Kaunas and Kaišiadorys districts, the company reports.

"Amber Grid carries out methodical and regular maintenance of Lithuania’s gas pipeline network. Our priority is to ensure the safety of the gas transmission system and the safety of the communities near the pipelines. We have planned the reconstruction of Vilnius-Kaunas gas pipeline sections in 2015 and beyond, following inspections of the pipelines and relevant repair work. Each year we inspect 200-300 km of gas pipelines across Lithuania through internal diagnostics and other means. After assessing their condition, we plan repairs or major reconstruction works,” says Nemunas Biknius, CEO of Amber Grid.

The reconstruction of the Vilnius-Kaunas gas pipeline sections will be carried out by two companies that have won public tenders. MT Group, a developer of energy and industrial infrastructure, will reconstruct a nearly 15 km long gas pipeline in the territory of Kaunas District. And DS-1, a contracting company, will reconstruct a 2 km section of gas pipeline in the Kaišiadorys district. The total value of the project is more than EUR 13 million excluding VAT. Half of the amount is financed by the European Union’s Structural Assistance Fund.

Parts of the Vilnius-Kaunas gas pipeline will be upgraded to ensure safe and uninterrupted gas transmission, as well as the safety of people living and working in the nearby area. The sections to be reconstructed pass through the urbanised and commercial areas of the Kaunas and Kaišiadorys district municipalities. The works will include the installation of a new pipeline, a modernised remote data transmission system and a modern cathodic protection system. Special trays will be installed to protect the pipeline underneath railways and motorways.

In addition to connecting Lithuania’s two major cities, the pipeline being rebuilt is part of the Lithuanian gas transmission ring and is therefore important for ensuring gas flows in all directions. As Lithuania has become a regional gas transmission hub in recent years, and as it transports very large volumes of gas, it is important to ensure reliable gas transmission in the directions of the EU Member States, taking into account the market needs.

During the reconstruction of a part of the gas pipeline that is important for international gas flows, innovative corrosion rate sensors and a SCADA system will be installed in the gas pipeline, which will allow remote data to be used to draw conclusions on the state of the pipeline. Adequate protection of pipelines against corrosion is an essential measure to ensure the safety and reliability of the gas pipeline system.

 

JOURNALISTIC INVESTIGATION UNCOVERS ILLEGAL WASTE DISPOSAL

 

Vilnius, February 8 (ELTA) – A journalistic investigation into illegal waste disposal was presented to the public on 7 February. The documentary Waste Underground: Cheap, Fast, Illegal (Šiukšlių pogrindis: pigiai, greitai, nelegaliai) reveals how criminal organisations collect and illegally bury, incinerate or simply dispose of in the fields, quarries and forests of thousands of tons of waste.

One of the creators of the documentary Vidmantas Balkūnas, an investigative journalist at 15min.lt, expressed his surprise about the situation in Lithuania, stating that it is incomprehensible how unlawful landfills can operate in the country.

According to him, one of the most challenging tasks was to set up secret video cameras to record vehicles and people that transported waste. Illegal waste disposal was recorded by stationary cameras and drones, GPS transponders tracked moving vehicles, satellite imagery databases were used, information was collected from open sources and informers.

Journalists say illegal waste disposal is a major problem in Lithuania and dozens of "companies” are engaged in this. Although some groups have been active for over a decade, yet, according to journalists, environmentalists avoid carrying out systematic inspections.

The collected evidence was transferred to law enforcement and the team intends to follow up on the situation. Both environmentalists and politicians promised to solve the problem.

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

to take place on Thursday, February 9

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to attend the European Council meeting in Brussels.

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to take part in a meeting of the political group of the Liberal Movement (Seimas, 11:00);

-- -- to participate in an extraordinary sitting of the Seimas (12:00);

-- -- to meet with European Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders (Seimas, 16:30);

-- -- to take part in a TV show Dienos tema on national TV LRT (21:00).

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to meet with European Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders (Government, 10:00);

-- -- to attend an extraordinary sitting of the Seimas (12:00).

MINISTRIES

-- Minister of the Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė to attend the opening of the Austrade office (17:00), to attend Delfi award ceremony Titans 2023 (19:00).

DEFENCE

-- A changeover ceremony of the rotations of the NATO enhanced Forward Presence Multinational Battle Group (eFP BG) to take place in Rukla (14:00).

EDUCATION

-- European Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders to deliver an open lecture (Vilnius University Aula Parva, Universiteto 3, 14:00).

A PRESS CONFERENCE

-- Minister of Justice Ewelina Dobrowolska and European Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders to hold a joint press conference (Justice Ministry, Gedimino 30, Vilnius, 11:30).

-- END.

 

WE MUST SUPPORT PEOPLE RISKING THEIR LIVES AND FREEDOM TO FIGHT FOR DEMOCRACY AND HUMAN RIGHTS – ESTONIAN FORMIN

 

Tallinn, February 8 (ELTA) – On 8 February, Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu met with Jevgenia Kara-Murza in Tallinn to present her with the Cross of Merit, Second Class, awarded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to her husband, the Russian political prisoner Vladimir Kara-Murza for his steadfast and long-standing work in standing up for human rights and civil liberties in Russia, stated the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Estonia.

At the meeting, the foreign minister expressed support for political prisoners in Russia and their democratic ambitions to end Russia’s aggression and crimes, and emphasised that criminals will inevitably face justice in an international court. "The international community must continue to support people like Vladimir Kara-Murza, who are risking their lives and freedom to fight for democracy and human rights in Russia,” Reinsalu said.

Reinsalu stressed that Russia’s repressions at home go hand in hand with its brutal war in Ukraine. Oppressing your own people creates the preconditions for acting with impunity abroad. "Russia must answer for the suffering it has caused with its war of aggression in Ukraine and we are tirelessly calling for establishing a special tribunal,” the minister added.

Estonia supports the democratic aspirations of the people of Russia to ensure the human rights violations and breaches of international law do not go unnoticed. "Russia must be isolated politically and held accountable for its crimes, and the new sanctions package must be implemented without delay. We must continue to stand up for the unconditional and immediate release of all political prisoners in Russia and for holding the perpetrators of repressions accountable,” Reinsalu said.

Representatives of the Free Russia Foundation also attended the meeting.

Estonian MFA’s secretary general met with French counterpart

Tallinn, February 8 (ELTA) – On 8 February, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Estonia Jonatan Vseviov met with his French colleague Anne-Marie Descôtes to discuss Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, continued support for Ukraine and security in Europe, the MFA reported.

Talks concentrated on Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, which has continued for almost a year. "Russia’s war and its end will define security in Europe for at least a generation,” Vseviov said. "This war must end in Ukraine’s victory, we are working towards this, standing shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine,” he said, adding that Ukraine’s victory was an existential issue for Estonia.

Vseviov stressed that Russia had not changed its strategic goal, which is to occupy Ukraine, and the next month will be crucial for how the war will play out in the future. "The idea that Russia wants peace talks is a lie spread by Russia and the West will not go along with this narrative,” he said. "We can see that mobilisation continues and Russia is preparing for a new offensive in Ukraine, which is why it is particularly important to raise the cost of the war for Russia.”

"We must continue offering Ukraine every assistance and send a clear message that the doors of the European Union and NATO are open to Ukraine,” Vseviov said, recognising France for continuing to provide critical defence support. "Ukraine is currently fighting for its right to self-determination, its right to choose who and where they would like to be. The open door of the EU and NATO will give them hope, which is vital for their morale on the battlefield.”

They also spoke about additional sanctions against Russia, including the agreement to impose a price cap on Russia’s refined oil products and the crude oil price cap, which will be reviewed in March. "Apart from additional sanctions, it is important to make sure that Russia is not evading current sanctions,” Vseviov said. He expressed regret that only eight percent of Western companies have left Russia by now.

He briefed his French colleague on Estonia’s efforts to find a legal option for using frozen Russian assets to rebuild Ukraine. The secretaries general also spoke about holding Russia accountable for the war crimes and crime of aggression committed in Ukraine.

Vseviov and Descôtes visited Narva and the French troops in Tapa on Wednesday. Vseviov affirmed that Estonia appreciated the continued presence of the French contingent in Estonia as part of NATO’s collective defence. They also discussed the upcoming NATO summit in Vilnius and the need to increase defence spending.

Second political consultations held between Latvia and Thailand

Riga, February 8 (ELTA) – On 7 February 2023, the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Latvia and Thailand held their second political consultations in Bangkok, Thailand. The delegation of Latvia was led by the head of the Bilateral Relations Directorate, Nils Jansons, and the delegation of Thailand, by the director General for European Affairs, Asi Mamanee, reports Latvia’s Foreign Ministry.

The consultation addressed bilateral cooperation between Latvia and Thailand, including economic contacts, in particular, in the fields of information and communication technologies and higher education and culture. The partners in the talks exchanged views on the global and regional scale challenges – the state of play in Ukraine and the Indo-Pacific region.

The Latvian delegation informed their Thai counterparts about the impact made by Russia’s aggression on the security of Latvia and Europe; the officials also discussed its influence on the international order based on the generally recognised principles and norms. Latvia commended Thailand’s humanitarian aid to Ukraine, while calling for broader support to be provided to Ukraine in the United Nations and other international formats.

In an exchange on cooperation between the European Union and Thailand, the officials expressed satisfaction with recent measures taken to resume negotiations on the EU-Thailand free trade agreement and welcomed signing of the EU-Thailand Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement in December 2022.

After the meeting with the delegation of Thailand, the delegation from the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is leaving for Jakarta, where the political consultations of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Latvia and Indonesia will take place on 9 February.

 

IN JANUARY, NUMBER OF DIRECT PASSENGERS AT RIGA AIRPORT RETURNS TO PRE-PANDEMIC LEVEL

 

February 8 (ELTA) – This January, Riga Airport handled 414.6 thousand passengers, with the number of direct passengers reaching 333 thousand or just 3.9 percent below the indicator of the pre-pandemic period, the airport stated.

"The beginning of this year has been successful for Riga Airport despite the fact that the first two months of the year usually mark the quietest season for airports. Seat occupancy rates on the flights to and from Riga are high, around 70% on average, but on certain flights to the warm destinations these rates approach 100 percent. Forecasts of the carriers in relation to the upcoming months are stable and allow us to look at further recovery”, says Laila Odiņa, chairperson of the Board of Riga Airport.

In January, 4,355 flights were handled at the Airport, of which 3,953 were passenger aircraft. Although, as compared to the number of aircraft handled in January 2019, the indicator this January showed a drop of one third, the number of seats offered to passengers on direct flights is just 13% lower than in 2019, with the airlines using larger capacity aircraft for the flights from and to Riga.

Of all the passengers carried in January, 51% flew with the national carrier airBaltic, but nearly 32% – with the Irish low-cost airline Ryanair, which thanks to the aircraft based in Riga Airport is able to offer an attractive range of destinations at the prices available to a broad range of travellers.

The proportion of direct and transit passengers also remains stable: one fifth of the passengers use Riga Airport as a place of transfer.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230209ej29000gp


Int’l community must stand by rule of law and be ready to prevent Russia escaping justice – Latvian president
324 字
2023 年 2 月 10 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
Riga, February 10 (ELTA) – On 10 February, President of Latvia Egils Levits welcomed Didier Reynders, European Union (EU) commissioner for justice, to the Riga Castle to exchange views on legal dimension of special ad hoc international tribunal to investigate and prosecute Russia for its crime of aggression against Ukraine, said the Office of the President.

The president of Latvia acknowledged EU’s efforts in creating legal prerequisites for prosecuting Russia. Egils Levits also expressed support for European Parliament resolution of 19 January, which calls for international tribunal to hold Russia accountable for crimes of aggression against Ukraine according to applicable international law, and European Council decision to create International Centre for the Prosecution of the Crime of Aggression in Ukraine (ICPA) adopted during summit on 9-10 February.

"Reaction of international community must be decisive, united and firm. We must hold Russian state and individual perpetrators accountable for war crimes against Ukraine. Any attempts to dismantle international order or challenge international law must be prevented,” President Levits underlined.

Commissioner Reynders thanked Latvia for its vocal support for establishment of special ad hoc tribunal in Europe and also globally, to which President Levits confirmed that Latvia will continue to advocate for special tribunal in available international formats, thus sending Russia a clear signal that international community is ready to stand by rule of law and there will be no impunity.

It is vital to roll over sanctions against Russia and stamp out national and EU sanction evasion attempts, the president of Latvia said. "We must find a legal way to take over and use frozen Russian assets for reconstruction of Ukraine. Aggressor must indemnify all damage. Ukraine keeps suffering more and more losses every day,” Egils Levits concluded.

In conclusion, the commissioner for justice praised Latvia for high level of justice and rule of law.

ELTA

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230210ej2a0028l


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10810
Karolis Broga
7314 字
2023 年 2 月 13 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10810 (95216) MONDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 13

 

WE NEED TO AGREE ON EU MEASURES AGAINST IRREGULAR MIGRATION – NAUSĖDA

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda continues his participation in the European Council meeting in Brussels, where on Thursday evening European leaders discussed issues related to irregular migration, said the Office of the President.

In his address to the EU leaders, the president stressed the need to agree at EU level on legal measures to fight irregular migration and its instrumentalisation. According to Gitanas Nausėda, Lithuania in 2021 became the target of an influx of irregular migrants orchestrated by the Belarusian regime, and understands more than anyone else the importance of properly protecting the EU’s external borders. The president also stressed the importance of strategic communication and the need to work with third countries where disinformation on migration to the EU is being actively spread.

Ahead of the European Council, the president of Lithuania together with Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen, Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger, Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Latvian Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš, Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer and Maltese Prime Minister Robert Abela addressed a joint letter to President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and President of the European Council Charles Michel, urging them to tackle the problem of irregular migration to the EU.

In their letter, the EU leaders state that irregular migration is once again becoming one of the EU’s most pressing issues, with national and local authorities confronted with a sharp increase in the number of migrants crossing borders illegally and in the number of asylum applications. According to the leaders, this situation requires urgent political attention and concrete action. EU leaders stress that urgent solutions are also needed to enable EU Member States to give priority to people in need of international protection, including Ukrainians fleeing Russia’s war in Ukraine.

The leaders of the EU Member States point out in their letter that the protection of the EU’s external borders needs to be further strengthened and made more effective through the targeted use of EU funds. They also stress that the current European asylum system and the extremely low rate of return are pull factors for third-country nationals who are not in need of international protection. This encourages life-threatening journeys to Europe.

In their letter, the leaders also call on the European Commission to present an approach that takes into account all the routes of irregular migration. Such an approach should aim to address pull factors, including through the necessary legal and technical adjustments.

"In addition to the core task of ensuring returns, better protecting refugees in their regions of origin, addressing instrumentalisation and combating human smuggling along the migratory routes, focus should be on addressing root causes of irregular migration by promoting economic and social opportunities in countries of origin and key host and transit third countries,” the letter reads.

The EU’s budget for the 2021-2027 financial period earmarks around EUR 6 billion for the protection of external borders.

 

NAUSĖDA VISITS NORWAY TO DISCUSS REGIONAL SECURITY AND SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 13 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda is paying an official visit to Norway on 12-13 February.

In Oslo, the Lithuanian head of state was scheduled to meet with Norwegian Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, Parliament Speaker Masud Gharahkhani and King Harald V of Norway.

The meetings would discuss stepping up regional security and defence, preparation for the upcoming NATO Summit in Vilnius and support for Ukraine, as well as development of bilateral economic ties and cooperation in defence between Lithuania and Norway.

During the visit, Nausėda was also scheduled to meet with representatives of Kongsberg, the company manufacturing medium-range ground-based air defence system NASAMS, and with the Lithuanian community in Norway.

 

GOOD WILL FOUNDATION TO ADMINISTER PAYMENT OF COMPENSATIONS FOR EXPROPRIATED JEWISH PROPERTY

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – The Good Will Foundation (GVF) will pay one-off symbolic compensations to Lithuania’s Jews and their heirs for illegally expropriated immovable property. Individuals who meet the criteria and whose applications are granted will receive a total of EUR 5-10 million.

On 10 February, the Good Will Foundation (GVF) announced that Holocaust survivors in Lithuania or their heirs may apply for compensations for illegally expropriated privately owned immovable property under a programme implemented in Lithuania. The deadline to submit applications is 31 December 2023.

The programme is implemented following a bill submitted by Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė and signed by President Gitanas Nausėda on 29 December 2022. The purpose of the law is to restore justice in terms of Holocaust survivors and their families who could not exercise their rights to restitution due to laws that existed before.

As of 1991, Lithuania passed several laws addressing the issue of restitution of immovable property that had been nationalised or otherwise illegally expropriated during Lithuania’s occupation by totalitarian regimes. Based on the laws at the time, only Lithuanian citizens were able to participate in restitution programmes. Therefore, the majority of Holocaust survivors or their families who no longer resided in Lithuania could not apply for restitution. To remedy the situation Lithuania recently adopted the Law on Good Will Compensation for the Illegally Expropriated Immovable Property of the Jews of Lithuania and Jewish Religious Communities of Lithuania. Based on the Law, the Government of Lithuania committed to pay symbolic one-off compensations to the Jews of Lithuania or their heirs for confiscated immovable property.

GVF was appointed the administrator of the fund and will pay out a total of EUR 5-10 million. The remaining part of EUR 37 million earmarked in the law will be used for making annual payments to the Good Will Foundation for the next seven years, which will significantly support Jewish communities in Lithuania and address the issue of welfare of the elderly.

 

MP DEMANDS ANSWERS WHY RUSSIAN AND BELARUSIAN TENNIS PLAYERS WERE ALLOWED TO COMPETE IN LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – Liberal Movement’s MP Raimundas Lopata, member of the Seimas Committee on National Security and Defence, has addressed the Lithuanian Tennis Union asking for an explanation why Russian and Belarusian players were allowed to participate in Vitas Gerulaitis Cup in Lithuania amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

"It is necessary to ascertain as soon as possible why athletes from these countries are taking part in a tournament in Lithuania. Who issued them visas to arrive in Lithuania? And all of this is happening at the time when it is sought to ban Russian and Belarusian athletes from competing in Paris Olympic Games,” says Lopata.

Having received a reply from the Lithuanian Tennis Federation about the participation of Russian and Belarusian tennis players in Vitas Gerulaitis Cup, the MP intends to examine who specifically issued visas for these athletes.

"We will continue expending efforts so that in our relations with Russia double standards would not be applied to business and sports, and for Lithuanian sports to follow principles of fair competition,” says Lopata.

 

INTERIOR MIN MAY PROPOSE TO EXTEND STATE OF EMERGENCY AT LITHUANIA’S BORDER DUE TO IRREGULAR MIGRATION FROM BELARUS

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – Minister of the Interior Agnė Bilotaitė does not rule out that the state of emergency may be extended at Lithuania’s border with Russia and Belarus due to continuing irregular migration.

"We are considering this as the Ministry of the Interior is tasked to bring forward its proposal. We are aware that our Latvian colleagues extended the state of emergency. We are considering and assessing this as well. We will present our decisions in the nearest future,” said the minister.

As reported, the Belarusian regime continues taking advantage of migrants for its hybrid aggression against Lithuania. Belarusian officers damage the physical barrier that Lithuania constructed at its border with Belarus. Belarusian officers also organise transportation of irregular migrants to the state border and direct them towards the territory of Lithuania.

The state of emergency was first introduced in 2021 amid a spike in irregular migration from Belarus to Lithuania of migrants from the Middle East and Africa.

 

LITHUANIA AND LATVIA ARE DEVELOPING UNITED RESPONSE TO HYBRID THREATS

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – Minister of the Interior Agnė Bilotaitė on Friday met with new Latvian Minister of the Interior Māris Kučinskis, former prime minister of Latvia. This is the first foreign visit by the Latvian interior minister. The ministers discussed issues of border security and civil protection, as well as the migration situation on the border with Belarus, stated Lithuania’s Interior Ministry.

According to Minister Bilotaitė, today, thanks to complex measures, the situation at the border has been stabilised, with Latvia and Poland, as well as Lithuania, taking the position that irregular migration across the EU border is not allowed. The minister stressed that the likelihood of provocations at the Lithuanian border remains high, as hybrid attacks and instrumentalisation of migration by Russia are not ruled out, and information on new flight routes to Minsk and Kaliningrad is being monitored closely.

According to Minister Kučinskis, Lithuania was chosen for his first foreign visit not by chance, but because both countries share a common challenge and concern about the situation on the border with Belarus. He stressed that Lithuania’s lessons in border protection are particularly relevant for Latvia. The Latvian delegation will visit the border on 10 February to inspect the physical barrier and the border surveillance systems. Lithuania’s border with Belarus has been reinforced with a 530 km of fence and 360 km of barbed wire, and modern border surveillance systems monitor almost the entire border with Belarus.

The Latvian minister of the interior expressed interest in the draft amendment to the Law on the State Border and its Protection initiated by the Ministry of the Interior as a response to the hybrid attack. The draft aims to regulate by law the application of a redirection policy during a state-level emergency situation. The redirection of irregular migrants is already legalised in Estonia and Finland, and the Latvian minister stressed that this draft law, prepared by the Ministry, is very important to ensure that the legal framework is the same in Latvia.

According to the minister, the need for such a law has become clear in the current situation.

"The reality is changing and we are moving from border protection to border defence. We need not only a physical border, but also a legal border. The existing tools are not sustainable or sufficient, so we are proposing a redirection policy, while at the same time providing a whole set of safeguards. Redirections are only possible in times of emergency, declared by the Government, and each case of irregular migration is assessed individually. These safeguards justify that our proposal is proportionate,” the minister said.

The ministers also discussed the strengthening of civil protection, which is driven on the one hand by Russia’s increasing aggression and open threats to use nuclear weapons, and on the other hand by the unsafe Astravets nuclear power plant, run by a hostile and unpredictable authoritarian regime in Belarus, which is launching hybrid attacks against its neighbours.

The minister presented the revival of civil protection in Lithuania and the work that has already been done – the Law on Crisis Management has been adopted, which provides an integrated crisis management system, the National Crisis Management Centre has been established, and preparedness officers have been established in every ministry and municipality. Crisis management has moved from the departmental to the national level.

Latvia is also strengthening civil protection by setting up a Civil Defence and Disaster Management System Committee. Strengthening civil protection is one of the objectives of this Latvian government.

In the context of the ever changing geopolitical situation, cooperation between Lithuania and Latvia has further intensified. The two countries are cooperating in all areas of the internal affairs system – state border protection, migration, the fight against organised crime, law enforcement, civil protection and fire safety. Joint projects, investigations, operations and regular exchange of information and best practices are carried out at the level of the services under the Ministry of Interior.

 

IN LAST 3 DAYS, 33 MIGRANTS ATTEMPTED TO ACCESS LITHUANIA ILLEGALLY FROM BELARUS

 

Vilnius, February 13 (ELTA) – Lithuanian border guards prevented 33 migrants from entering the country illegally in the last three days, on 10-12 February.

The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) reported that 28 illegal migrants tried to cross from Belarus to Lithuania on Friday and 5 on Saturday, but there were no illegal border crossing attempts on Sunday.

Meanwhile, neighbouring Latvia stopped 26 illegal migrants from crossing the border from Belarus to Latvia on Friday, none on Saturday and 9 on Sunday.

Whereas 113 illegal migrants tried to enter Poland from Belarus on Thursday, 27 on Friday and 50 on Saturday.

So far in 2023, the VSAT prevented 322 migrants from accessing Lithuania illegally from Belarus. The figure stood at 11,211 in 2022 and 8,120 in 2021, since 3 August until the end of the year.

Since the start of the migrant crisis caused by Belarus, Lithuanian border guards have thwarted 19,637 illegal border crossing attempts from Belarus to Lithuania.

 

NEXT NATO EFP BATTALION BATTLE GROUP LITHUANIA ROTATION KICKED OFF AT RUKLA

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – On 9 February, NATO eFP BG began its deployment in Lithuania. The NATO enhanced Forward Presence Multinational Battle Group (eFP BG) command was transferred at a Hand Over–Take Over and rotation ceremony at the Lithuanian Great Hetman Jonušas Radvila Training Regiment at Rukla, the Armed Forces announced.

"I am grateful to NATO eFP Battalion commanders and troops for the service in Lithuania. Nothing is as strong as unity of colours, equipment, vehicles, ideas and hearts as they seek common goal. We are sending out a message today that we are and we will always be together,” said Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Valdemaras Rupšys addressing the troops.

Next, the 13th rotation of the NATO enhanced Forward Presence Multinational Battle Group (eFP BG), will serve under command of Lieutenant Colonel Lars Neitzel of the Bundeswehr who succeeds Lieutenant Colonel Marc Maulbecker, commander of the 12th rotation which was in service since August. The new eFP rotation is formed by the military of Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway, Czech Republic, Luxembourg and after a six-month break – Croatia. The current strength of the eFP BG Lithuania is approx. 1,600 troops.

"We are thankful to Germany and other nations contributing to the NATO eFP for increasing their troop levels and capabilities in Lithuania when the Russian war in Ukraine began. It is critical that eFP rotations remain reinforced to 1600 members: it is a significant increase in deterrent effect. In our turn, we continue improving the conditions offered to deploying Allies and we will aim to achieve practical deliverables concerning Forward Defence and Allied commitments to our country at the NATO Summit in Vilnius in June,” says Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas. 

The ceremony was attended by Deputy Minister of National Defence Žilvinas Tomkus, Chief of Defence of Lithuania Lieutenant General Valdemaras Rupšys, Commander Infantry Brigade Iron Wolf Colonel Aurelijus Motiejūnas.

Germany is the framework nation of the NATO eFP Lithuania and contributes the most significant contingent. Over 15 thousand troops have been rotated in to train in the NATO eFP BG Lithuania since its establishment alongside our troops from 9 NATO Allies: Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Croatia, Luxembourg and Iceland. NATO eFP BG training encompasses defensive and offensive actions.

 

FARMERS AND GREENS EXPEL MAYORAL CANDIDATE FOR SAYING THAT CRIMEA IS RUSSIAN

 

Vilnius, February 13 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian Farmers and Greens Union (LVŽS) has distanced itself from the statements about Ukraine made by Robertas Kuncaitis, the party’s mayoral candidate in Šilutė district, which he made during Saturday’s mayoral debates before 5 March elections. The party expelled him soon after.

During the show Žinau ką renku (I Know Who I Elect), which was dedicated to Šilutė mayoral debates, Kuncaitis, a basketball coach, was asked whom does the Crimean peninsula belong to. He replied that "it was de facto Russia’s”. When the question was repeated, he refused to answer, adding "you know why”.

"We find Kuncaitis’ statements completely unacceptable and apologise to the Ukrainian nation and the Lithuanian public for the position expressed by the LVŽS candidate,” a statement issued by the LVŽS reads.

"The LVŽS categorically disagrees with any doubts and insinuations about Ukraine’s territorial integrity. The Crimean peninsula and other territories currently occupied by Russia belong to Ukraine,” the party stated.

The LVŽS called Kuncaitis’ statements "provocative” and vowed to address the Central Electoral Commission (VRK) so that he would be removed from mayoral elections in Šilutė.

The party also notes that it has always actively supported Ukraine, which is defending against a Russian invasion.

 

MAYOR OF BUCHA VISITS VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – Anatoly Fedoruk, mayor of Bucha, a Ukrainian town near the capital Kyiv, paid a visit to Lithuania on Friday. When Russian forces occupied the town in 2022, they engaged in mass killing of Ukrainian civilians and prisoners of war there. The mayor says the town is trying to recover but is lacking international financial aid.

Speaking to the news agency ELTA, the mayor said that only bilateral cooperation and existing partnerships with individual municipalities in foreign countries have been fruitful so far, whereas the rest is just talk about long-term prospects and future plans.

Mayor Fedoruk and Member of Irpin City Council Mykhailyna Skoryk-Shkarivska viewed the virtual reality installation Emocinis lūžis in Vilnius Town Hall.

On the eve of the Russian invasion on 24 February 2022, Bucha, a town 30 km northwest of Kyiv, had around 37,000 inhabitants. It is estimated that 4,000 people remained in the town when Russian forces occupied it. After a failed operation to capture Kyiv, Russians withdrew from the town and Bucha was declared liberated on 1 April 2022.

Reporters entered the town the next day and discovered signs of executions of civilians by Russians. After the month-long occupation and subsequent Russian withdrawal, more than 400 bodies of civilians and prisoners of war were discovered in Bucha in mass burials, gardens and streets.

 

AGRIMIN ADDRESSES EU COMMISSIONER OVER SITUATION IN DAIRY SECTOR

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – Minister of Agriculture Kęstutis Navickas has addressed European Commissioner for Agriculture Janusz Wojciechowski asking him to make urgent decisions to help stabilise the situation in Lithuania’s dairy market.

The agriculture minister stressed in his official letter that Lithuania’s dairy market is exceptional as more than 60% of dairy produce is exported. Whereas with demand decreasing both in the exports markets and domestically, production costs remain high and the dairy sector faces difficulties.

In the last three months, raw milk purchase prices have dropped by around 17% and may decrease further in February. The minister noted that Lithuania’s dairy producers are currently paid for raw milk by 40% less than EU average. Both major and minor dairy producers are in a complex situation. Most dairy farmers in Lithuania are small producers that are paid the least for raw milk.

Minister Navickas vows that Lithuania is doing everything it can to help the country’s dairy producers to survive this exceptionally challenging period but national efforts alone are insufficient and measures on the EU level are required.

Taking into account the complex situation, the minister asked the European commissioner to provide urgent emergency aid to Lithuanian dairy producers from the EU agricultural crisis reserve, as well as to urgently increase intervention prices of skimmed milk powder and butter that have not been changed for a long time, and to activate private storage aid scheme for skimmed milk, butter and cheeses.

 

LIFELONG LEARNING IS A NECESSARY SKILL THAT SHOULD BE GIVEN GREATER IMPORTANCE – AUDIT OFFICE

 

Vilnius, February 11 (ELTA) – Gaining experience, learning and development opportunities are among the most important values that are becoming increasingly important as life expectancy increases and retirement becomes later in life. The knowledge and skills acquired at school or university are not sufficient to last a lifetime, therefore continuous learning and the development of competences are essential for a successful professional and social life, states the National Audit Office.

In Lithuania, lifelong learning is changing positively, but slowly. The lifelong learning rate among the population aged 25-64 is 8.5%, compared to an EU average of 10.8%. Even lower, at only 3.8%, is the rate among those who have left the labour market. Lithuania is among the last countries in the EU with the lowest participation rates, with only Poland and Romania having lower rates.

The results of the National Audit Office’s assessment of lifelong learning show that a functioning, user-friendly and socially attractive adult lifelong learning system has not yet been established, although the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport started to develop one in 2013. One of the factors contributing to the low number of adult learners is the complexity of balancing learning, personal life and work commitments and the cost of training.

"In order to get more adults to choose to learn, it is essential to provide more information to the public about the importance and benefits of learning, career guidance, funding opportunities and the range of programmes on offer, and to build people's learning habits,” said audit team leader Eivida Šlamė.

 

INVL GROUP COMPLETES ACQUISITION OF MUNDUS PRIVATE DEBT FUND MANAGEMENT COMPANY

 

Vilnius, February 12 (ELTA) – INVL Asset Management, part of the leading Baltic investment management and life insurance group INVL, completed a transaction to acquire the remaining shares of Mundus, an asset management company which manages a private debt fund, the company said in a press release.

"Consolidating the shares in the hands of one owner will help use the accumulated experience to strengthen our position on the alternative investment market and create more value for clients and investors,” says Vytautas Plunksnis, the head of Private Equity at the INVL group.

By buying 49% of shares from Mundus partners Audrius Mozūras and Martynas Grikinis, a fund manager who will remain with the company, INVL Asset Management became the sole shareholder of Mundus, which manages the Mundus Bridge Finance private debt fund.

As an open-ended fund for informed investors, Mundus Bridge Finance pursues a stable long-term return by investing in privately placed debt securities of companies in the fast-growing alternative finance sector and by providing bridge financing for projects of various types. Since its launch in 2015, the private debt fund has conducted 18 deals.

As of the end of January 2023, Mundus Bridge Finance had assets under management of EUR 26.6 million.

 

IGNITIS GROUP HAS BEST INVESTOR RELATIONS PRACTICES IN LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, February 12 (ELTA) – A leading renewable energy company and the largest listed company in the Baltics Ignitis Group was recognised in the Nasdaq Baltic Awards 2023 and took the first place in the category of "The best investor relations company in Lithuania” and, together with another issuer, is sharing second place in the category of "The best investor relations company in the Baltics”, the company announced.

Companies listed in Nasdaq Baltic were evaluated in the areas of disclosure transparency, sound corporate governance, trading activity and investor relations. All issuers were evaluated by market analysts and professional investors.

According to CFO of Ignitis Group Jonas Rimavičius, it is important that the Group is recognised in the capital market awards.

"Accountability to shareholders and transparency is in our DNA. We follow the highest standards in all our operations, therefore we are glad to receive the award in the area of investor relations. It is also an important reminder that we are on the right path,” says Rimavičius.

When talking about the securities market and its importance, Rimavičius noted that, by participating in the securities market, Ignitis Group created conditions for further investments into green energy generation, even in the context of the current geopolitical situation. EUR 450 million secured during the IPO allowed the company to ensure further investments in the expansion of green energy generation capacity and distribution network, which are strategically important to Lithuania and the region.

"The Group’s IPO has undoubtedly strengthened the Lithuanian capital market because we’ve attracted the attention of international investors and are making our region more attractive investment-wise,” noted the CFO of Ignitis Group.

Previously, the Group was only a bond issuer, and in 2019 it was recognised as the best bond issuer, while in 2021 it was recognised for its IPO, which was the most important event in the Baltic capital markets in 2020.

 

PORT OF KLAIPĖDA 2022 RESULTS: OPTIMISM DESPITE A CHALLENGING YEAR

 

Klaipėda, February 11 (ELTA) – Lithuanian Port of Klaipėda concluded the year 2022 with a cargo volume of 36.1 million tonnes and maintained the fourth position among the Eastern Baltic ports. Although the cargo has decreased by 21%, comparing to 45.6 million tonnes in 2021, the result is better than initially forecasted. The decrease is caused by loss of nearly all transit cargo due to the war in Ukraine and related sanctions, the Port of Klaipėda reports.

The decrease in transit cargo, which mainly consisted of Belarusian bulk fertilizer, was partially compensated by a record number of container TEUs, and increase in LNG and other petroleum product cargo volumes.

"The Port of Klaipėda has maintained its position on the eastern shore of the Baltic Sea, and is now leading in terms of containerised cargo handling. We are continuing our investments in infrastructure and environmental sustainability without changing our strategic direction. The port is dependent on its geographical location, general economic trends, industry and transit routes, but we put our efforts that this year we will maintain our 2022 performance in cargo handling,” says Algis Latakas, director general of the Port of Klaipėda Authority.

In 2022, the Port of Klaipėda was included in additional ocean maritime routes, which contributed to the growth of container handling volumes, especially transhipment. At the end of the last year, a threshold of one million TEUs was exceeded. When comparing with other ports on the east coast of the Baltic Sea, the container handling at the Port of Klaipėda has increased the most, recording an annual growth rate of 57% (by number of TEU).

The previous year was marked by a recovery in cruise shipping. The Port of Klaipėda welcomed 61 cruise ships with 47,000 cruise tourists.

In total, in 2022, the Port of Klaipėda had 5,605 ship calls (dry bulk carriers, containerships, tankers, ferries, cruise ships, etc.), and 337,000 passengers.

 

KONGSBERG NANOAVIONICS OFFICIALLY OPENED ITS MAIT EXPANSION FACILITY, DOUBLING OVERALL PRODUCTION CAPACITY

 

Vilnius, February 10 (ELTA) – Small satellite mission integrator and bus manufacturer Kongsberg NanoAvionics (NanoAvionics) has doubled its satellite production capability by officially opening their manufacturing, assembly, integration, and testing (MAIT) facility in Vilnius, Lithuania, the company said in a press release.

After a gradual occupancy the facility is now fully operational and an expansion to the company’s existing facilities in Lithuania (HQ), the UK and the USA. In addition to the production scale-up, the facility provides additional workspace and supports NanoAvionics’s aim of growing its global number of 250 employees and hiring more than 100 people across all of its offices this year alone.

The expansion of its production capabilities enables NanoAvionics to meet the demands for satellite constellations and larger satellites by commercial, civil, and governmental organisations. Puting all the required production, testing and mission operations infrastructure under one roof allows the company to further streamline its processes. In addition to manufacturing its 6U, 12U, 16U nanosatellite buses and its ESPA-class microsatellite bus range of up to 220kg in weight, it is also the company’s prime location for developing new products. Other business divisions such as administration, business development and operations remain located at the company’s headquarters in the building next door.

Vytenis J. Buzas, founder and CEO of NanoAvionics said: "Our investment decisions to scale up the business, such as this facility is a result of the continued company growth and customer demand over the last years. It is in line with our goal to become the prime supplier for small satellite constellations. Our philosophy is to grow alongside the space market’s maturity and with our customers, and enter new phases in their constellation development by having plans in place that allow us to increase our capacity.”

"The expansion puts the NanoAvionics into a position to develop new and further high-quality and cost-efficient propositions across the entire value chain for smallsat constellations. Following this trajectory, the site gives us the potential to expand it to 2,000 square metres,” said Buzas.

Erected next door to its headquarters and covering 1,230 square metres, the MAIT facility, includes mechanical laboratories, thermal vacuum chambers, thermal bake-out chambers to software development and vibration test equipment. The building also houses NanoAvionics’s constellation operations centre from which it controls and manages all satellite operations on behalf of its customers.

"The facility was built on the knowledge and experience gained through manufacturing nearly 2,000 subsystems, including payload controllers, flight computers, electrical power systems (EPS), reaction wheels, battery packs and other critical spacecraft components for more than 120 satellite missions globally. Situated in a district famous for its cluster of technological companies and science institutions, the location is also ideal to attract great talent,” Buzas said.

 

SPECIAL TRIBUNAL MUST ENABLE A TRIAL OF PUTIN – ESTONIAN FORMIN

 

Tallinn, February 10 (ELTA) – On 10 February, Estonia’s Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu gave a speech at the conference War, Dictatorship and Human Rights, concentrating on Russia’s war of aggression and genocide against the Ukrainian people, reports the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Estonia.

Reinsalu said it was disgraceful that only a few countries have recognised Russia’s war of aggression in Ukraine as genocide. "Not defining this crime against humanity in the correct terms means trivialising it,” he emphasised.

The minister said that numerous and grave crimes are being committed in Russia-occupied areas – extra-judicial killings, arrests, kidnapping, torture and rape on a mass scale. "Obviously, genocide includes taking children from Ukrainian families and stealing children and sending them to Russia,” Reinsalu said.

He called for acknowledging Russia’s genocide against the Ukrainian people and underlined that Russia must answer for the suffering it has caused with its genocidal war in Ukraine.

Estonia is supporting all efforts to ensure that the crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine are investigated and perpetrators are brought to justice and held accountable. It is also crucial to support Ukraine on the international level. "We have supported bringing the perpetrators of Russia’s war crimes and crimes against humanity before the International Criminal Court. This is why we posted Estonian experts to the court and we were among the 43 countries applying for starting an investigation into what is happening in Ukraine,” the minister said.

Russia’s aggression in Ukraine requires an international legal assessment. As the International Criminal Court does not have a mandate for this, we need to establish a special tribunal for the crime of aggression committed in Ukraine, which would make it possible to bring Russia’s leadership, including Putin, to justice.

The conference War, Dictatorship and Human Rights was organised by the Institute of Human Rights, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the German think tank Konrad Adenauer Stiftung.

 

ESTONIA BASING MEDIUM-RANGE AIR DEFENCE PROCUREMENT ON PRICE, CAPABILITY

 

Tallinn, February 10 (ELTA) – Estonia is basing its procurement of medium-range air defence systems on their price and capabilities; while excluding Russia and Belarus from the list of potential bidders, it will not be taking into consideration how a system’s country of production has behaved during Russia’s ongoing war in Ukraine, reports public broadcaster ERR.

"No country is excluded from the procurement, with certain exceptions such as Russia, Belarus and North Korea, as we’re acquiring the most economically advantageous and technically capable system in the market situation,” said Priit Soosaar, communications and radar category manager at the Procurement Department of the Estonian Centre for Defence Investments (ECDI).

Asked whether Estonia would take into account in their selection whether a system’s country of production has been receptive to authorizing the transfer of weapons to Ukraine as the latter fends off Russian aggression, Soosaar responded in the negative.

"This system is being acquired for the defence of the Estonian state, due to which the decision will not be impacted by how easy it would be to obtain authorisation for the re-export of the system,” he explained.

According to Soosaar, the medium-range air defence procurement is currently underway; six bidders have made it into the second round, and a decision will be made by spring.

 

INT’L COMMUNITY MUST STAND BY RULE OF LAW AND BE READY TO PREVENT RUSSIA ESCAPING JUSTICE – LATVIAN PRESIDENT

 

Riga, February 10 (ELTA) – On 10 February, President of Latvia Egils Levits welcomed Didier Reynders, European Union (EU) commissioner for justice, to the Riga Castle to exchange views on legal dimension of special ad hoc international tribunal to investigate and prosecute Russia for its crime of aggression against Ukraine, said the Office of the President.

The president of Latvia acknowledged EU’s efforts in creating legal prerequisites for prosecuting Russia. Egils Levits also expressed support for European Parliament resolution of 19 January, which calls for international tribunal to hold Russia accountable for crimes of aggression against Ukraine according to applicable international law, and European Council decision to create International Centre for the Prosecution of the Crime of Aggression in Ukraine (ICPA) adopted during summit on 9-10 February.

"Reaction of international community must be decisive, united and firm. We must hold Russian state and individual perpetrators accountable for war crimes against Ukraine. Any attempts to dismantle international order or challenge international law must be prevented,” President Levits underlined.

Commissioner Reynders thanked Latvia for its vocal support for establishment of special ad hoc tribunal in Europe and also globally, to which President Levits confirmed that Latvia will continue to advocate for special tribunal in available international formats, thus sending Russia a clear signal that international community is ready to stand by rule of law and there will be no impunity.

It is vital to roll over sanctions against Russia and stamp out national and EU sanction evasion attempts, the president of Latvia said. "We must find a legal way to take over and use frozen Russian assets for reconstruction of Ukraine. Aggressor must indemnify all damage. Ukraine keeps suffering more and more losses every day,” Egils Levits concluded.

In conclusion, the commissioner for justice praised Latvia for high level of justice and rule of law.

 

AVERAGE LEVEL OF CONSUMER PRICES IN LATVIA ROSE BY 21.5% IN JANUARY 2023 Y-O-Y

 

Riga, February 10 (ELTA) – The latest data of the Central Statistical Bureau show that in January 2023, compared to January 2022, the average level of consumer prices increased by 21.5% in Latvia.

Compared to January 2022, in January 2023 the average level of consumer prices was mainly influenced by the goods and services related to housing (7.9 percentage points), food and non-alcoholic beverages (7.3 percentage points), goods and services related to transport (1.7 percentage points), miscellaneous goods and services group (0.9 percentage points), goods and services related to recreation and culture (0.8 percentage points).

Over the year, prices within the group of food and non-alcoholic beverages increased by 28.2%. Price rise for bread (42.0%), bakery products (26.3%), flours and other cereals (39.1%), pasta products (35.1%), rice (31.4%) and breakfast cereals (22.0%) had the strongest upward influence on the average price level within the group. Prices of dried, salted or smoked meat (24.1%), poultry (37.0%), pork (24.7%), meat preparations (26.5%), beef (30.4%) also went up. Upturn was recorded in prices of cheese and curd (30.0%), milk (45.3), milk products (32.1%), eggs (35.2%) and yoghurt (20.1%). Prices increased for coffee (34.4%), fresh fruit (20.3%), sugar (86.2%), fresh vegetables (13.4%), vegetable oil (44.0%), chocolate (19.6%), preserved or processed fish and seafood-based preparations (28.3%), butter (24.7%), ice cream (18.6%), sauces and condiments (43.2%), fruit and vegetable juices (17.7%), soft drinks (22.5%), frozen fish (38.7%). Over the year, prices of salt and spices (36.6%), dried, other preserved or processed vegetables (22.9%), olive oil (25.6%), jams and honey (15.5%), sweets (21.1%), fresh or chilled fish (16.6%), margarine (34.8%), dried fruit and nuts (20.7%), ready-made meals (23.4%) and tea (18.8%) also went up.

The average level of alcoholic beverage and tobacco product prices rose by 7.4%. As prices of spirits, beer and wine went up, alcoholic beverages became more expensive (8.9%). Over the year average increase of 4.9% was observed in prices of tobacco products.

Average level of prices of goods and services related to housing rose by 48.1%. Over the year, the most significant rise in the prices was for heat energy (69.6%), electricity (89.8%), solid fuels (82.5%) and natural gas (79.5%). Upturn was recorded in prices of water supply, sewage collection, refuse collection, maintenance charges in multi-occupied buildings, services for the maintenance and repair of the dwelling, as well as materials for the maintenance and repair of the dwelling.

The average level of health care prices grew by 10.3%. Over the year, prices of pharmaceutical products, dental services and prices in medical specialist practice went up.

Prices of goods and services related to transport increased by 12.3%, which was determined by the rise in prices of fuels for transport by 17.8%. Prices of diesel rose by 26.7%, of petrol – by 8.0%, but of auto gas – by 5.2%. Upturn was recorded in prices of maintenance and repair of personal transport equipment, passenger transport by road, spare parts and accessories for personal transport equipment, motor cars. In turn, passenger transport by air became cheaper.

Prices of goods and services related to recreation and culture rose by 11.1%. During the year, prices increased for pet food, flowers, recreational and sporting services, newspapers and magazines, television subscription fee, stationery and drawing materials, fiction books, package holidays, as well as personal computers.

The average level of restaurant and hotel service prices went up by 18.6%. Increase was observed in prices of catering services, of which prices of restaurant and café services rose by 17.3%, of canteen services – by 17.9% and of fast food services – by 20.6%. Over the year, prices of hotel services also went up.

Within the miscellaneous goods and services group, prices increased by 17.4%, which was significantly affected by the rise in prices of articles for personal hygiene and beauty products. Motor vehicle insurance, hairdressing salons and personal grooming establishment services, retirement home fee for elderly persons, financial services were more expensive as well.

Among other commodity groups, the most notable rise was registered in prices of telecommunication services, household cleaning and maintenance products, household furniture, pre-primary education, footwear, garments, major household appliances, as well as domestic and household services.

Compared to December 2022, in January 2023 the average level of consumer prices increased by 0.5%. Food and non-alcoholic beverages (0.3 percentage points), miscellaneous goods and services group (0.1 percentage point), health care (0.1 percentage point), furnishings (0.1 percentage point), goods and services related to recreation and culture (0.1 percentage point), alcoholic beverages and tobacco products (0.1 percentage point), as well as clothing and footwear (-0.2 percentage points), goods and services related to housing (-0.1 percentage point) contributed the most to the price level changes.

Over the month, prices of food and non-alcoholic beverages grew by 1.3%. The most significant price rise was registered for bread (2.7%), which was mainly affected by the end of promotions on wheat bread and rye bread. Rise in prices was also registered for fresh fruit (3.5%). Due to the end of special offers, increase was recorded in prices of milk (3.0%), bakery products (2.0%), chocolate (3.0%), flours and other cereals (2.9%), dried, salted or smoked meat (0.7%), poultry (0.9%), coffee (0.8%), as well as pasta products (2.9%). Prices increased for fruit and vegetable juices (4.5%), eggs (2.9%), pork (1.0%), fresh vegetables (0.8%) and sugar (3.7%). But prices of cheese and curd (2.5%) and butter (3.9%) fell due to the discounts.

The average level of alcoholic beverage and tobacco product prices rose by 1.3%. Mainly due to the end of special offers on spirits and wine, prices of alcoholic beverages went up (1.9%). During the month, the average level of tobacco product prices remained the same.

Prices within clothing and footwear group fell by 4.6%. Affected by discounts and sales of winter goods, the average price level of garments dropped by 5.0%, but prices of footwear – by 3.7%.

Average level of prices of goods and services related to housing fell by 0.7%. During the month the most significant price drop in the group was registered for electricity (4.7%), which was affected by reduction of electricity price for tariffs linked to the electricity exchange. Solid fuels and heat energy became cheaper.

Over the month, maintenance charges in multi-occupied buildings became more expensive. Due to the increase of natural resource tax, prices of refuse collection services on average rose by 7.3%. Upturn was recorded in prices of services for the maintenance and repair of the dwelling, rentals for housing and natural gas.

Within the furnishings group prices rose on average by 2.6%. Due to the end of sales, increase was recorded in prices of household cleaning and maintenance products, as well as non-electric kitchen utensils and articles.

The average level of health care prices grew by 1.8%. Growth was registered in prices of pharmaceutical products, prices in medical specialist practice and dental services.

Prices of goods and services related to transport increased by 0.3%, which was mainly affected by the rise in prices of fuels for transport by 1.4%. Prices of diesel rose by 2.3%, of petrol – by 0.5%, but of auto gas – reduced by 0.1%. Upturn was recorded in prices of passenger transport by road and passenger transport by tram, as well as maintenance and repair of personal transport equipment. Prices of passenger transport by air went down.

Goods and services related to recreation and culture became more expensive by 1.4%. During the month, prices increased for flowers, personal computers, newspapers and magazines. As the sales ended, prices of toys went up. In turn, prices of package holidays went down.

Within the miscellaneous goods and services group prices increased by 3.0%. Mainly affected by the end of sales campaigns, prices of articles for personal hygiene and beauty products went up.

Among other commodity groups, the most notable rise was registered in prices of catering services.

Compared to 2015, in January 2023 consumer prices were 41.9% higher. Prices of goods increased by 44.3% and prices of services by 33.4%.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Monday, February 13

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to pay an official visit to Norway.

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to hold a working meeting (10:00).

MINISTRIES

-- Minister of Finance Gintarė Skaistė on 13-14 February to meet with EU finance ministers.

-- END.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230213ej2d000b5


Nordic, Baltic, Polish MPs fail to agree on joint boycott of OSCE session
LETA
470 字
2023 年 2 月 13 日 07:58 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
VILNIUS, Feb 13 (LETA--BNS) – Nordic, Baltic and Polish parliamentarians have failed to reach consensus on a joint boycott of the winter session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in Vienna if Russians are allowed to participate, but Lithuania sticks to its decision not to attend the gathering.

According to Vilija Aleknaite-Abramikiene, head of the Lithuanian parliament's delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of other countries decided to "fight the Russians in the same hall".

"No decision was taken on a joint boycott. All delegations are very united in support of Ukraine, but decisions (on whether to attend) will be made individually," Aleknaite-Abramikiene told BNS on Saturday.

"It seems to me that we will be left alone, because they decided to fight the Russians in that hall. I think this could cause a lot of chaos and (...) turn into a scandal, but probably most delegations will decide (to attend)," she said.

"Our decision is to abstain from going to this session and it l can hardly change," the Lithuanian MP said. "We are consulting and following the changing situation. It is a pity that a joint protest did not take place."

According to Aleknaite-Abramikiene, Ukraine's representatives intend to travel to Vienna to meet with their allies, rather than to attend the Hofburg session, so it is possible that someone from the Lithuanian delegation will go to the Austrian capital to meet with them.

"In any case, the Lithuanian delegation will not sit in the same hall with the Russians," she said. "Our decision is not to go."

In a joint statement issued after their meeting in Vilnius at the end of last week, the Nordic, Baltic and Polish parliamentary delegations said that Russia must be held accountable and responsible for its actions in Ukraine, and that an international legal mechanism should be created to assess the aggressor's crimes.

"We note with great regret the fact of granting visas to Russian parliamentarians who are under the EU sanctions list and allowing them to take part in the Winter Session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the very date of the anniversary of Russian aggression against Ukraine open war of aggression," they said.

"Russia's participation in the OSCE PA meeting in Vienna will without doubt be used for propaganda purposes at home and abroad and will send a very disappointing message to the international community," according to the statement.

All members of the Russian delegation have been on the EU sanction lists for violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity since the beginning of 2014.

The OSCE PA session will take place on February 23-24, the anniversary of Russia's war against Ukraine.

33373546363643452D414436462D3438

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230213ej2d000jh


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10820
Justina Vaišvilaitė
4999 字
2023 年 2 月 21 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10820 (95226) TUESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 21

 

NAUSĖDA URGES WEST TO CROSS "RED LINES” TO SEND MILITARY AID TO UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda has reiterated his call for the West to cross "red lines” in providing military help to war-torn Ukraine.

"This is very important that we cross these red lines, which are in our minds and do not really exist. Maybe sometimes Russia tries to set up those red lines instead of us,” Nausėda told CNN on Monday.

"My message is: Not waste the time. Be decisive, be united and take decisions as quick as possible,” the Lithuanian head of state noted.

When asked about a message he intends to take to Poland for the upcoming Bucharest Nine summit, Nausėda said that he would speak about Lithuania’s security and "especially the security of eastern flank.”

The president also stated that the Baltic States are currently facing a direct threat from Russia and Belarus. "This is the reason we expect some positive signals regarding our security,” he said.

When asked to comment on China’s intentions to present its peace proposal for Ukraine, Nausėda highlighted that Beijing should not interfere in the war.

 

PRESIDENT TO MEET WITH KING WILLEM-ALEXANDER OF NETHERLANDS

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – On Tuesday, President Gitanas Nausėda will meet with King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands who is arriving to Lithuania for a visit.

The Lithuanian head of state and the Dutch monarch will discuss bilateral relations, regional security, Russia’s war in Ukraine and preparations for the NATO summit in Vilnius. Before his meeting with the president, the king of the Netherlands will visit his country’s troops stationed in Lithuania.

 

BIDEN’S VISIT IN KYIV HIGHLIGHTS US COMMITMENT TO CONTINUE SUPPORTING UKRAINE – PRESIDENT’S ADVISER

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian president’s chief national security adviser, Kęstutis Budrys, says that US President Joe Biden’s visit to Kyiv on Monday is yet another sign of Western unity in the face of Russian aggression against Ukraine. The visit, he says, highlights US commitment to continue supporting Ukraine.

"The visit has major significance. First, it is on the eve of the first anniversary of war, in the capital of a waring country. The meeting and its content signify how much the USA with President Biden at the forefront have done for Ukraine and for the entire West,” Budrys told Delfi TV show Iš esmės.

The chief adviser noted that Biden, after the meeting with President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky, would also meet with Central and Eastern European leaders.

"Following this visit Biden will meet with leaders of the region the day after tomorrow, where President [Gitanas] Nausėda will have an opportunity to express Lithuania’s position,” said Budrys, adding that the future of the region and Ukraine would be discussed.

 

NO REASON TO DOUBT IN STATE SECURITY DEPARTMENT’S INTEGRITY – OPPOSITION LAWMAKERS

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – Conservative leader Gabrielius Landsbergis says information provided in the book Pranešėjas ir prezidentas (A Whistle-blower and the President), written by investigative journalists, is a cause for concern about the integrity of the State Security Department (VSD). However, opposition representatives reject such fears and claim that the Conservative party (TS-LKD) is taking advantage of the issue to deflect from its own woes.

"Some things were known earlier, some investigations had been conducted. Yet it is obvious that information provided by journalists brings up additional questions. (&) Questions may be raised about the integrity of a key agency like the State Security Department,” Landsbergis told reporters Monday, adding that parliament could address the issue.

The book written by investigative journalists Dovydas Pancerovas and Birutė Davidonytė will soon be sold in bookstores. Its excerpts published recently describe potentially unlawful data collection by the VSD about individuals from then presidential candidate Gitanas Nausėda’s environment during the 2019 presidential election. It also devotes much attention to Nausėda’s presidential campaign and tenure during the COVID-19 pandemic, rows with the Conservative party (TS-LKD) and relations with his political team. In 2019, the same authors published the book Kabinetas 399 about then prime minister Saulius Skvernelis.

Liberal Movement’s MP Raimundas Lopata, member of the Seimas Committee on National Security and Defence, has called to set up an ad hoc parliamentary commission to probe if the VSD was engaged in unlawful collection of information in 2018-2019.

Conservative MP Laurynas Kasčiūnas thinks that the newly established office of the ombudsperson for intelligence could handle the issue.

Leader of the Labour Party Andrius Mazuronis called the intentions to create a parliamentary commission absurd. He believes that by focusing on the book the ruling majority is hoping to deflect attention from the pre-trial investigation into sexual abuse of minors involving former MP Kristijonas Bartoševičius, who was elected to the Seimas with the TS-LKD.

MP Saulius Skvernelis, former prime minister who now leads another opposition party Democrats For Lithuania, called the book in question "science fiction” that is not based on documents.

Meanwhile, in a comment sent to the news agency ELTA regarding the proposal to set up a parliamentary commission to probe if the VSD collected information about private individuals, the agency stated that it would not assess interpretations and speculations.

Moreover, it noted that in 2020 the Seimas Committee on National Security and Defence concluded that the agency acted lawfully when verifying information about presidential candidates and determined that it is the agency’s duty to evaluate and prevent foreign interference in democratic processes.

 

PAKISTANI FOREIGN MINISTER PAYS VISIT TO LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – On Tuesday, Foreign minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan Bilawal Bhutto Zardari is paying an official visit to Lithuania at the invitation of Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis, the ministry announces.

It is the first visit of a Pakistani foreign minister ever, the Foreign Ministry said.

The ministerial meeting will focus on the development of bilateral political dialogue, the international community’s response to Russia’s war in Ukraine, regional security issues in Europe and South Asia, including the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan.

Landsbergis and Zardari will also sign a memorandum of understanding between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania and Pakistan on the establishment of a bilateral consultation mechanism. The document will consolidate the commitment of the foreign ministries of Lithuania and Pakistan to hold regular exchanges on bilateral and international issues.

During his visit, Foreign Minister Zardari of Pakistan will also meet with Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilyte-Nielsen and Transport Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis.

As part of his visit, the minister is set to attend a wreath laying ceremony held in tribute to Lithuanian freedom fighters at the Antakalnis cemetery.

Pakistan recognised Lithuania’s independence on 8 September 1991. The diplomatic ties between the two countries were established on 31 May 1994.

 

FORMIN MET WITH NATO SECRETARY GENERAL

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – On Monday, at the NATO headquarters, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis met with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg to discuss preparation for the NATO Summit that will take place in Lithuania’s capital Vilnius on 11-12 July 2023.

The head of Lithuania’s diplomacy stressed that partners have already expressed their expectations for the upcoming Summit: NATO’s eastern flank hopes for tangible progress in the implementation of decisions adopted at the previous meeting in Madrid enhancing deterrence measures. Whereas Ukraine expects actual practical and political progress as regards the Euro-Atlantic integration.

During their meeting Minister Landsbergis and Secretary General Stoltenberg discussed priorities of the NATO Summit in Vilnius, plans to boost defence and deterrence, Ukraine’s Euro-Atlantic aspirations, practical and political support for Ukraine, as well as Finland and Sweden’s membership in NATO and the Alliance’s partnership with countries in the Indo-Pacific.

 

THERE IS NO DIRECT MILITARY THREAT AT LITHUANIA’S BORDER – FORMIN

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – President’s Chief National Security Adviser Kęstutis Budrys on Monday told the news website Delfi that a Wagner-type Russian group invading the Baltic States is a possible scenario. However, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis notes that intelligence data does not indicate a direct Russian military aggression threat against Lithuania.

"There is no such threat currently,” Landsbergis told reporters from Lithuania’s public broadcaster LRT in Brussels on Monday.

"When reading the headlines people should consider that there is no direct threat at the border now. Russian forces are fully engaged in the war in Ukraine. The war is not proceeding how Russia expected, but it is still in its active stage,” Landsbergis said.

Nonetheless, the minister stressed that Russia’s aggression against Ukraine posed a serious threat that could not be ignored and Western partners were reminded of this.

"The threat is real. So far, it has not materialised or has not been realised by Russia. This does not mean that the situation may not change. We have a very long border with Russia. In our case also with Belarus, which is actively involved in military action, not with its troops but with its support for military action,” stated Landsbergis, adding that support for the Baltic States is vital.

 

FORMIN ATTENDS EU FOREIGN AFFAIRS COUNCIL MEETING

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – Lithuania’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis is attending the European Union’s Foreign Affairs Council that is taking place in Brussels, Belgium, on 20 February.

"There are no two camps in Europe. There is no victory and peace camp. Peace comes after victory. We have to put meaning into the words when we say we are sticking with Ukraine until the end. We must admit that the end is Ukrainian victory in reclaiming all its territory,” Landsbergis told reporters before the meeting.

The head of Lithuania’s diplomacy also said speaking to the media that the EU should sanction Russia’s nuclear energy enterprise Rosatom.

"We should definitely have a public debate about adding Rosatom to the sanctions, it’s way overdue. I know that some countries are worried about contracts that are in place, that they need those contracts in order for their nuclear power plants to be operational, that’s needed for nuclear safety, that’s needed for energy safety, that’s understandable. But we can derogate that the same way we did with oil,” said the minister.

EU foreign ministers will also meet with Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of Moldova Nicu Popescu.

In addition, on Monday morning, foreign ministers had an informal meeting with Garry Kasparov, a representative of the Russian opposition. The meeting was initiated by Lithuania and Poland.

 

ZUOKAS AND BENKUNSKAS WOULD ADVANCE TO SECOND ROUND OF MAYORAL ELECTION IN VILNIUS – POLL

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – With less than two weeks to go until municipal and mayoral elections, a poll commissioned by the Conservative party (TS-LKD) has revealed that the most realistic candidates to win the mayoral race in Vilnius city are Artūras Zuokas and Valdas Benkunskas as both of them are projected to advance to the second round of voting.

The poll conducted by Open Agency on 9-13 February shows that 23.6% of respondents would vote for Zuokas, the candidate of the Freedom and Justice Party and former mayor of Vilnius, while 17.9% would cast ballots for Benkunskas, the Conservative party’s nominee and incumbent Deputy Mayor.

Freedom Party’s candidate MP Tomas Vytautas Raskevičius is projected to finish third with 10.3% of votes, fourth would be former Conservative representative Mykolas Majauskas with 9%, followed by the Social Democratic Party’s nominee Rasa Budbergytė and the National Alliance’s nominee Vytautas Sinica, both would finish with 4.1% of votes.

The share of undecided voters stands at 12.1%, while 4.9% of respondents said they would not vote in upcoming municipal elections altogether.

Respondents were also asked whom they would support in the second round if Zuokas and Benkunskas were to face off. 40.7% of the polled stated they would vote for Conservative candidate Benkunskas, while 37.7% would cast ballots for Zuokas. The difference however is within the margin of error of the poll.

In addition, 12.9% stated they would not vote at all in the second round if contenders included Zuokas and Benkunskas, while 8.7% were undecided whom of the two they would support in that situation.

A total of 700 respondents aged 18 and older were interviewed on 9-13 February. The margin of error is 3.6%.

Municipal and mayoral elections will take place in Lithuania on 5 March.

 

GERMAN BRIGADE PRE-ASSIGNED TO LITHUANIA TESTS COMBAT READINESS, ARRIVES FOR ITS FIRST TRAINING DEPLOYMENT THIS YEAR

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – The 41st Panzergrenadier Brigade of the Bundeswehr is deploying to Lithuania for its first exercise this year, announced the Armed Forces of Lithuania.

Units of the enhanced Vigilance Activity Brigade will train at Griffin Lightning alongside the Lithuanian Grand Duchess Birutė Uhlan Battalion on 28 February–10 March after completing the combat training part in Germany, unit activation and force redeployment stages.

Approx. 600 troops and 240 items of military equipment under leadership of Brigadier General Christian Nawrat deploy to Lithuania by land, air and sea. Before the training in Lithuania the Brigade has been implementing the regular perpetual combat training schedule and preparation for the tasks alongside Lithuanian colleagues.

The exercise will train joint operations planning, force redeployment, joint combat tasks while on a field training and live fire exercise. German troops and equipment will be arriving from 20 through 27 February.

The 41st Panzergrenadier Brigade’s Forward Command Element has been deployed in Lithuania on a standing basis since 4 September 2022. The enhanced Vigilance Activity Brigade conducts planning and combat training in Lithuania and Germany together with the Lithuanian Land Force, field training exercises, force redeployment and live fire exercises are held.

 

PRO-RUSSIAN ACTIVIST DISPUTES COURT’S DECISION TO CLOSE ORGANISATION, VOWS TO ESTABLISH MORE OF THEM

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – On 20 February, District Court of Vilnius Region, Chamber of Vilnius Region delivered a judgement in a civil case granting prosecutors’ request close the association the International Good Neighbourhood Forum (Tarptautinis geros kaimynystės forumas). The court ruled that the organisation was founded unlawfully and acted against Lithuania. However, its head Erika Švenčionienė disputed the court’s ruling and vowed to create more organisations.

The Forum was established in 2022 using Algirdas Paleckis’ e-signature although he was already carrying out a 6-year custodial sentence for spying for Russia and has been in prison. Members of the organisation claim that it is striving for peace and friendly relations with neighbouring countries, but the court judged that its activities were hostile to Lithuania as the Forum supported Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, supported authoritarian regimes, questioned the legitimacy of elections in Lithuania and its constitutional established European and Trans-Atlantic integration.

Švenčionienė, the head of the organisation, told reporters after the hearing that the ruling would be appealed against. She claimed that the case was "undemocratic” and that evidence was misinterpreted by "the current administration of Lithuania”.

"You do not want your son to go to war. You do not want your son to die. I dislike it that yellow-blue rags are hanging in my country. It is not a flag for me. This rag is not my flag. It angers me that they are hanging in the Seimas, near all institutions,” Švenčionienė, who claims to be for peace, said about Ukrainian flags, which people display on their windows and balconies in support of Ukraine.

The woman vowed to create more organisations together with her colleagues.

"We will establish several organisations so that administrators of the state would be preoccupied, so that we could normally carry out our nice activities that Lithuania needs so much,” she said.

Asked about how the Forum was funded, the woman claimed that it used its members’ and their relatives’ money.

As reported, court ordered to close the organisation the International Good Neighbourhood Forum on 20 February. Its members had visited Russia and Belarus, where they defamed Lithuania and spread Russian propaganda. The organisation was founded in 2022 using the e-signature of Algirdas Paleckis, former leader of the Socialist People’s Front (SLF), even though in 2021 he was sentenced for 6 years for spying for Russia and imprisoned earlier in 2022.

 

NO ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSING ATTEMPT THREE DAYS IN A ROW

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) says that no illegal border crossing attempts have been observed in Lithuania for a third consecutive day.

Meanwhile, Latvia reported it had denied entry to three foreign nationals trying to cross into the country illegally from Belarus on Monday.

Polish border guards pushed back 30 illegal migrants on Sunday.

According to the VSAT, this year, by 20 February, 357 migrants tried to access Lithuania from Belarus illegally.

Since 3 August 2021, when the VSAT was instructed to turn away illegal migrants attempting to cross the state border at unauthorised locations, more than 19.7 thousand migrants have been denied entry from Belarus to Lithuania.

 

MEDICINOS BANKAS EARNS EUR 5.2MN PROFIT IN 2022

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – 2022 was a successful year for Medicinos Bankas. According to preliminary unaudited data, the Lithuanian capital bank earned a profit of EUR 5.2 million last year, or 12.5% more than in the previous year (EUR 4.6 million), Medicinos Bankas stated in a press release.

"Last year we managed to adapt quickly to the market conditions, to make timely decisions that meet the changing needs of our customers and to take advantage of the opportunities to increase the volume of services,” says Marius Arlauskas, head of administration of Medicinos Bankas.

Last year, compared to 2021, net interest income of Medicinos Bankas increased by 16% or EUR 1.6 million to EUR 11.7 million.

Year on year, the bank’s net fee and commission income from services increased by 0.3% or EUR 0.02 million to EUR 5 million, while the net result from foreign exchange transactions increased by 7% or EUR 0.3 million to EUR 4.9 million.

"I am pleased that last year we were able to take advantage of the increased demand for financing by responding quickly and working consistently and purposefully. We have successfully increased both the corporate and personal loan portfolios. The increased volumes of financing for businesses and individuals are an excellent illustration of the fact that, despite the economic and geopolitical uncertainties, confidence in the country’s economy has recovered in 2022, and that businesses and individuals are sufficiently resilient and prepared for current or potential financial difficulties,” says Mr Arlauskas.

Loan portfolio of Medicinos Bankas grew by 21% to EUR 255 million in 2022 and the overall quality of the bank’s loan portfolio is good.

"This year, the world’s economies are under pressure from the aftermath of the Russian-led war in Ukraine, rising inflation, and the economic cycle is being watched to see whether it will enter a recessionary phase. As a result, the overall macroeconomic environment is becoming increasingly complicated, making it difficult to predict how customers will behave this year. Nevertheless, Medicinos Bankas will continue to strive for sustainable revenue growth this year by increasing the volume of financing for both individual and corporate customers, with a particular focus on financing renewable energy sources and environmentally friendly projects,” concludes Mr Arlauskas.

The assets of Medicinos Bankas at the end of 2022 amounted to EUR 411.5 million, or 0.8% more than a year ago (EUR 408.5 million).

The bank’s liabilities to customers at the end of 2022 amounted to EUR 354 million and were 0.4% lower than at the end of December 2021.

During the year, the equity of the shareholders of Medicinos Bankas increased by 12% to EUR 48 million as at 31 December 2022 (previous year: EUR 43 million).

With 296 employees at the end of 2022, Medicinos Bankas’ customer service network consists of 37 territorial branches.

 

 

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Tuesday, February 21

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to meet with judicial candidates (Presidential Palace, 11:00);

-- -- to meet remotely with candidates for heads of Lithuania’s diplomatic missions (Presidential Palace, 13:00);

-- -- to meet with King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands (Presidential Palace, 18:00);

-- -- to hold a joint press conference with the king of the Netherlands (18:45).

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to meet with Minister of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Bilawal Bhutto Zardari (Seimas, 10:30).

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to hold a working meeting (11:00).

MINISTRIES

-- Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis to meet with Minister of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Bilawal Bhutto Zardari;

-- Minister of Transport and Communications to meet with Minister of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Bilawal Bhutto Zardari (12:30).

-- END.

 

UKRAINE’S VICTORY IS IMPORTANT TO BREAK ENDLESS CYCLE OF RUSSIAN WARS OF CONQUEST – ESTONIAN PM

 

Tallinn, February 20 (ELTA) – At the Munich Security Conference on 19 February, Prime Minister of Estonia Kaja Kallas spoke at the panel discussion Back to the Future? Visions of the European Security Architecture, reports the Office of the Government.

In her speech, Estonian Prime Minister Kallas emphasised that history has shown that one must take risks in order to defeat evil. There must be no room for fear in support of Ukraine. "If we are afraid of Russia’s nuclear threats, we will wake up in a much more dangerous world. If Ukraine and other countries in the immediate vicinity of Russia are not afraid, then those who are further away should not be either. Ukraine’s victory is important to break the endless cycle of Russian wars of conquest,” Kallas said.

"Ukraine needs urgent military support, and I have proposed that the EU Member States jointly and quickly procure ammunition for Ukraine. During the COVID pandemic, we were able to react quickly in the European Union and jointly procure vaccines, and it is time to show the same resourcefulness and speed in sending ammunition to Ukraine. The European defence industry is waiting for orders – it is up to the governments to put the orders in place,” the prime minister said.

"This is important not only for supporting Ukraine, but also because the security situation has changed for many years to come and European countries need to invest increasingly in their defence and fill the gaps in this area quickly,” Kallas added.

Kallas stressed that the way the war in Ukraine ends determines peace for a long time. Russia’s aggression against Ukraine has shown that Ukraine cannot be neutral and that grey areas in Europe are a source of conflict and instability. "Ukraine’s place is in the European Union and after the end of the war also in NATO.”

Finally, Kallas recalled that Russia has long been preparing for a long confrontation, and it is time that we were ready for this as well. "For example, some think that with the arrival of peace in Ukraine, the confrontation with Russia will also disappear. The Kremlin is also betting on this, hoping that the transatlantic community will get tired,” Kallas said.

European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell, Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson and former foreign minister of Poland and current Member of the European Parliament Radosław Sikorski also participated in the discussion.

 

UKRAINE NEEDS BATTLEFIELD SUCCESS TO ENSURE SUPPORT FROM THE WEST – ESTONIAN EXPERT

 

Tallinn, February 20 (ELTA) – In order to secure long-term aid from Western countries, Ukraine needs to find success on the battlefield, while no new offensive to push out Russian troops seems to be happening in the coming months, said security expert Indrek Kannik, reports Estonian public broadcaster ERR.

"To make sure the West remains united behind Ukraine, the latter needs to demonstrate military successes from time to time, tangible results, or territory [reclaimed] in other words,” Kannik said on the "Vikerhommik” radio show Monday morning.

He said that Ukraine was served well by the fact it managed to liberate a considerable part of Kharkiv Oblast and the west bank of the Dnipro in Kherson.

"It showed that Ukraine is capable of liberating territories, and I believe they need to find similar success in the next four to six months to retain the West's support. Should the front become static, voices suggesting that a ceasefire might be in order after all will grow louder in European capitals, but also in Washington to some degree,” Kannik remarked.

Freeport of Riga introducing green technologies in cargo handling

Riga, February 20 (ELTA) – In order to improve the speed and energy efficiency of cargo handling, the port company SIA Jaunmīlgrāvja ostas kompānija has purchased a new electric motor-powered mobile crane within the framework of the project Green Innovations with a Digitised Loading Process. The new loading solution involves the introduction of a special cargo handling system, which includes an integrated and automated weighing procedure and digitized handling and storage, reports the Freeport of Riga.

The project is implemented with the support of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism funding within the framework of the open call "Application of green industry innovation and ICT products and technologies ". The project total cost is EUR 1.3 million, of which EUR 583.8 thousand euro is support funding. The project is planned to be implemented by spring 2024.

"Due to the need to increase the terminal’s energy efficiency, we assessed the needs of our clients and the demand for new technologies. As a result of the project implementation, clients will get better service and save costs, while the terminal will be able to optimise the cargo handling process, providing more energy efficient and environmentally friendly services. According to our estimates, by operating the new mobile crane we would be able to reduce CO2 emissions by 85%, in addition, the terminal will accommodate larger-sized ships and tranship bigger cargo amounts. With the introduction of a digitized loading system, the efficiency of client transport will also be increased, reducing the number of harmful emissions and avoiding excess weight of cargo vehicles,” said Sergejs Piskunovs, Jaunmīlgrāvja ostas kompānija Board member, highlighting the benefits of the project implementation.

"The Port of Riga is the country’s largest transport hub. It has at its disposal waterways, adjacent areas, knowledge and unique infrastructure. Along with cargo transportation, we are currently actively moving towards developing services that can provide added value and help to strengthen the competitiveness of the port’s clients in the world. We have set a goal to become the location where various new and environmentally friendly technologies are united, providing a platform for bold innovations and future-shaping change. Operating in the region’s largest hydrogen valley is our opportunity to actively participate in the initial development and pioneering of various technological innovations, to be at the core of the region's innovation knowledge, as well as not only to be involved in the development of a common hydrogen strategy and vision for the region, but also to demonstrate and pilot real and economically viable solutions,” said Viesturs Zeps, chairman of the Freeport of Riga Board.

Jaunmīlgrāvja ostas kompānija is one of the port’s largest stevedoring companies. In 2022, it ranked 7th among all port stevedores in terms of the volume of transhipped cargo, while it was the second largest company in the forestry cargo segment. The volume of cargo at the terminal is growing steadily, and in 2022 it reached 0.8 million tons, which is the historically highest annual turnover of the terminal.

"Our goal is to create a modern and competitive port terminal by investing our own efforts and funds. In recent years, we have made significant investments in the reconstruction of berths, modernisation of equipment and improvement of the terminal infrastructure. Due to a smart investment strategy, rational planning of cargo handling and vessel calls, as well as successful cooperation with clients, we are able to increase the transhipped cargo volume from year to year,” added Sergejs Piskunovs.

 

EIGHT STUDENTS GRADUATE AIRBALTIC PILOT ACADEMY

 

Riga, February 20 (ELTA) – On 20 February, eight students graduated from the Latvian national airline’s airBaltic Pilot Academy, receiving a commercial pilot license upon completion of the full-time airline transport pilot program. In addition, already the 17th group of 17 students began their professional pilot studies, the company said in a press release.

Martin Gauss, president and CEO of airBaltic: "We are proud of the most recent graduates of the Pilot Academy. In order to join the team of airBaltic very soon, some of them will start further training this month. Highly-trained personnel is one of the key factors of successful operations at any airline. Also, we congratulate the young and determined students of the 17th group, who started their studies today.”

The latest graduates represent countries such as Germany, Italy, Lithuania, and Latvia. The 17th group represents Austria, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, and Sweden.

There are 75 active students at the airBaltic Pilot Academy at the moment. Most of them are from Baltic countries, however, there are students also from other EU countries such as Germany, France, Finland, Spain and Italy among others. Overall, more than 10% of airBaltic Pilot Academy students are female. As for now, 77 students, after graduating, have joined airBaltic.

Since May 2022, airBaltic Pilot Academy has improved the payment structure for its commercial pilot study program. As of now, after successfully passing the company’s assessment, airBaltic will finance a significant part of the studies.

Students of the airBaltic Pilot Academy will now have to cover the costs of studies until obtaining a private pilot license level, costing approximately EUR 25,000. After passing airBaltic pilot assessment and becoming an employee of the company, the airline will provide financing for the rest of the studies.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230221ej2l000jh


Lithuanian reps to boycott OSCE PA session in Vienna – delegation head
BNS/TBT Staff
352 字
2023 年 2 月 21 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS - Lithuanian representatives will boycott the winter session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in Vienna after Austria allowed Russian representatives to attend, Vilija Aleknaite-Abramikiene, head of the Lithuanian Seimas delegation, says.

"The final decision is not to attend. We have waited until yesterday, my suitcase is still ready, hoping that the Austrians will change their decision. They will announce it only today but I have learnt in advance through unofficial channels that they will issue visas to all applicants", she told BNS on Tuesday.

"We have made our minds and we are united, both the position and the opposition, and there are no different views here," the head of the Lithuanian delegation said.

The OSCE PA's winter session in Vienna will take place on Thursday and Friday.

In a joint statement issued after their meeting in Vilnius earlier this month, the Nordic, Baltic and Polish parliamentary delegations said that Russia must be held accountable and responsible for its actions in Ukraine, and that an international legal mechanism should be created to assess the aggressor's crimes.

They noted that Russia's participation in the OSCE PA meeting in Vienna will without doubt be used for propaganda purposes at home and abroad and "will send a very disappointing message to the international community".

Lithuanian invited the Nordic, Baltic and Polish counterparts to join a boycott, if Russia was allowed to attend, but the countries failed to agree on the issue.

Aleknaite-Abramikiene then said representatives of other countries decided to "fight the Russians in the same hall".

All members of the Russian delegation have been on the EU sanction lists for violations of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity since the beginning of 2014.

The OSCE PA session will take place on February 23-24, the anniversary of Russia's war against Ukraine.

The Austrian Foreign Ministry earlier told AFP that the country is "obliged under international law to grant entry to the delegates of all OSCE participating states".

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230221ej2l00032


HOLF for Piccy: Russia’s war in Ukraine has distorted global trade routes
2795 字
2023 年 2 月 21 日 21:07 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and related sanctions have distorted trade routes across the Eurasian continent.

Ukraine was forced to find new export routes for its grain after its Black Sea ports were blockaded. China and other Far Eastern exporters that previously sent goods via Russia’s railways to Europe are looking for alternative routes not compromised by sanctions. European countries are importing gas from Azerbaijan and North Africa, and liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the US, as they seek to fully free themselves from dependence on Russia.

For Russia itself, sanctions have necessitated finding new sources of imports, especially those critical for its manufacturing industries, as well as a pivot to Asia, in particular China, after European sanctions restricted its Westward oil and gas exports.

Ukraine finds new grain export routes

Right at the start of the invasion, alongside the movement of troops overland into Ukraine, Russia dispatched its navy to blockade Odesa and other Ukrainian Black Sea ports. That prevented the transport of grain from Ukraine, in normal years one of the world’s top grain exporters, not only restricting Ukraine’s ability to earn export revenues but also sparking fears of food shortages, especially in the Middle East and North Africa.

Sympathetic to Ukraine’s plight, friendly nations in Central and Southeast Europe were quick to offer their own ports to get Ukraine’s grain to international markets, a lifeline for Kyiv until the Black Sea Grain Initiative that allowed maritime exports was brokered by Turkey and the UN.

By last summer it was reported that the flow of merchandise through Romania’s Port of Constanta had tripled since the war in Ukraine started. Steps taken to facilitate exports from Ukraine included repairing a railway line compatible with the wider-gauge trains used in Moldova and Ukraine from the Moldovan port of Giurgiulesti to the Romanian port of Galati on the Danube. That has meant freight trains coming from Ukraine through Moldova no longer have to be reloaded at the border between Moldova and Romania.

However, while the Romanian government sought to help Ukraine’s exporters access international markets, local exporters complained that opening Romanian ports to Ukrainian companies was causing problems for them, by putting pressure on the capacity of the ports. In mid-2022, trucks were reportedly waiting in queues of over 30 km to unload their containers at Constanta.

Further north there were also reports of trucks backed up for miles at border checkpoints between Ukraine and Poland and other Central European countries. In response, Poland doubled the number of access points for trucks[https://notesfrompoland.com/2022/06/21/poland-doubles-access-points-for-trucks-on-ukrainian-border/] on its border with Ukraine in June. Michal Dworczyk, the Polish prime minister’s chief of staff, told a press conference in June this was intended both to help Ukraine and to benefit Poland by increasing transit trade. New rail terminals[https://www.railfreight.com/railfreight/2022/09/05/these-terminals-have-helped-ukraine-poland-rail-freight-flow/?gdpr=accept] have also been added.

Road freight transportation between Slovakia and Ukraine used to be modest, as the two countries have only a short shared border with a small number of crossings. “The Russian aggression in Ukraine caused a significant increase in the transported volumes and a change in the composition of traded categories,” says a recent comment from think-tank GlobSec[https://www.globsec.org/what-we-do/publications/new-momentum-development-road-freight-between-ukraine-and-slovakia-what]. “As the threat of attack from the east continues to loom and Ukraine becomes more integrated with the European market, the exchange of goods between Slovakia and Ukraine will continue to grow.” Now Slovakia wants to build a motorway connection with Ukraine in anticipation of future trade.

Meanwhile, the EU is building up the Paths of Solidarity initiative[https://ubn.news/the-eu-is-mobilizing-e1b-to-export-food-from-ukraine/], which has allowed the export of 15mn tonnes of agricultural products as well as non-agricultural Ukrainian goods, and enabled the war-torn country to import what it needs, such as fuel and humanitarian assistance. The European Commission has described the initiative as “the lifeline of Ukraine’s economy”, bringing in more than €15bn of much-needed income to Ukrainian farmers and businesses.

Russia turns East

Russia’s trade has shifted dramatically Eastwards after Western countries imposed sanctions.

Amid confusion over the impact of sanctions, trade with China briefly dipped in the spring, but has since rapidly bounced back. In 2022, China overtook Europe to become Russia’s top trading partner. Russia’s bilateral trade with China in 2021 reached $141bn, of which Russian exports to China amounted to $68bn, but trade volumes are believed to have grown sharply during 2022.

Russia had already been working on reorienting its hydrocarbons exports eastwards, as demand for gas and oil from East Asia was expected to continue to grow in the coming decades, while the green revolution will eventually lead to an end to Europe’s dependence on fossil fuels. As early as 2014, Russia and China signed a contract on the delivery of 38bn cubic metres of gas per year via the Power of Siberia pipeline.

The sanctions accelerated that process. Following its invasion of Ukraine, Russia slashed pipeline deliveries of natural gas to the European Union by more than half – cutting off some countries such as Bulgaria entirely – and the International Energy Agency (IEA) warned in a recent report that Russia could send as little as 25 bcm this year.

Conversely, China is critical to Russia’s plan to increase gas shipments to Asia following the loss of most of its market share in Europe. In January, Russia and China signed an intergovernmental agreement on pipeline gas deliveries via the Far East. The agreement sets out the key parameters for a 10 bcm per year gas supply contract[https://newsbase.com/story/russia-expands-china-ties-with-new-gas-deal-234073] that they clinched in February 2022.

Moscow and Beijing are also discussing a 50 bcm per year contract to underpin the construction of Power of Siberia 2, which would run from the Russian Arctic to China through Mongolia. It would supply gas from fields that until recently served the European market. The Far Eastern supplies would come from Gazprom-operated fields off the coast of Sakhalin Island.

Parallel imports

Russia also worked hard to secure new sources of imports after being cut off from European exporters for a wide variety of goods. Russian firms have found new suppliers in Asia, or alternatively have managed to get around the sanctions by using parallel import schemes, as bne IntelliNews reported in November.

Back in April 2022 Russia approved so-called “parallel imports” or “grey imports” to maintain supply chains. That means importing products without the permission of the copyright owner.

China became the main contributor to the recovery in Russian imports, increasing its deliveries by 21% year on year as of September, but other suppliers such as Turkey, Azerbaijan and Belarus also came to the fore. Many of the more sophisticated products like semiconductors and high-quality machinery are still missing, but consumer goods and basic agricultural and industrial inputs have mostly reappeared.

Meanwhile, Russia’s partners in the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) hiked exports to Russia by 70% y/y in the first seven months of 2022, according to BCS GM. There are reports that some of Russia’s trade partners in the bloc – Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan – are simply rerouting supplies through these countries or local traders are taking advantage of the parallel import[https://www.intellinews.com/russia-allows-grey-imports-to-maintain-supply-chains-240162/?source=russia] schemes to send hard to find goods to Russia. By end 2022, Russia-EAEU trade is anticipated to reach $127.2bn, up by $54.59bn y/y.

Kyrgyzstan, for example, has more than doubled its exports to Russia since the start of the war, while its imports from China have almost tripled, reported RFE/RL[https://www.rferl.org/a/ukraine-war-kyrgyzstan-trade-russia/32277438.html]. While the data is incomplete, the hike in trade appears to be linked to re-exporting. Temir Shabdanaliev, head of the Association of Carriers and Logisticians of the Kyrgyz Republic, told RFE/RL that goods from Europe that were previously sent to Russia are now registered as deliveries to Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan, but immediately dispatched to Russia after unloading. This could, however, be problematic for Kyrgyzstan, which risks being targeted by secondary sanctions.

European politicians are already getting suspicious. Krisjanis Karins, Prime Minister of noted Russia-hawk Latvia, warned on February 4 that traders were using Turkey, Kazakhstan and Armenia to evade EU sanctions on Russia. The three countries' sanctions-busting trade is breaching their compliance with EU trade embargoes on Russia, said Karins.

"It seems quite clear that traders are finding ways to legally trade goods, say with Turkey, Kazakhstan or Armenia, which are then resent to Russia, because these countries are not adhering to the sanctions regime", Karins told reporters in the Estonian capital Tallinn, as reported by Reuters.

Turkey the big winner

Turkey, in particular, has been a big winner from the sanction’s regime. Bilateral trade with Russia in 2021 amounted to about $30bn, with around $23bn of this being Russian exports to Turkey. As well as the high level of energy trade between the two countries, Russia’s need for parallel imports is also driving up bilateral trade.

Few countries have a more advantageous geographical position in geopolitical affairs than Turkey. And few leaders know how to exploit the inherent opportunities better than the country’s leader of two decades, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine, Erdogan has hardly missed a beat in exploiting the opportunities offered by both the West and the Kremlin, knowing that with Turkey located at the crossroads of Europe, Asia and the Middle East, none of the major powers dare lose Ankara as an ally.

Nevertheless, there has been at least some pushback from Europe and the US at some of Erdogan’s more flagrant breaches of the spirit and letter of the economic backlash against Russia’s waging of war. Senior US officials visited Turkey in both October last year and late January to turn the screw on Erdogan over Ankara’s growing trade co-operation with Moscow, in both imports and exports. It’s clear the Erdogan administration is busting numerous sanctions, but Washington remains too polite to say it out loud.

The latest suspect scheme put forward by Vladimir Putin and Erdogan is to turn Turkey – linked by several pipeline strands to Russia – into a regional gas hub. How will Europe know that the gas it gets out of this hub is not Russian in origin rather than, for instance, Azerbaijani or Qatari LNG?

Another winner from the sanctions is Azerbaijan, which has also been playing both sides of the field, signing new gas deals with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on the one hand but boosting exports to Russia on the other.

Meanwhile, countries like Iran, China and India are seeking to strengthen trade turnover by pushing the International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC) project for a better connection via a multimodal transport network that spans rail, road and sea. International experts say[https://www.timesnownews.com/exclusive/why-russia-wants-instc-its-ambitious-project-to-connect-to-india-via-iran-article-92618829] this project could become an alternative to the Mediterranean-Suez Canal route that would allow Russia to bypass waters dominated by its Western rivals.

The Middle Corridor

With China-Europe cargo forwarders looking to offer businesses the option of freight routes that avoid Russia, Turkey and other countries in the region are keen to help equip and build up the Middle Corridor[https://www.adb.org/publications/middle-corridor-policy-development-trade-potential#:~:text=The%2520Trans%252DCaspian%2520International%2520Transport%2520Route%2520(TITR)%252C%2520known,%252C%2520the%2520Caucasus%252C%2520Turkey%252C%2520and], officially the Trans-Caspian International Transport Route (TITR) – connecting East Asia to Europe via Kazakhstan, the Caspian Sea, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.

For non-combatants, the challenge has been getting trade around Russia, the biggest country in the world, and with railways linking Europe and Asia. This has benefited countries in Central Asia (chiefly Kazakhstan) and the South Caucasus that have long held ambitions to create a complementary route across their territory with much talk of a new Silk Road.

As reported by bne IntelliNews in 2022, cargo dispatchers in China faced with sending goods to Europe via either Russian or Kazakh territory are increasingly opting for the latter. Volumes dispatched via Kazakh railways are booming, as is transport via Aktau and other Caspian seaports. The head of the Aktau Sea commercial port, Abai Turikpenbayev, forecast in mid-2022 that the volume on the TITR would increase sixfold during the year to up to 3.2mn tonnes.

Moreover, there is a new impetus to develop long-discussed routes westwards out of China, including the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan (CKU) railway[https://www.intellinews.com/central-asia-blog-whisper-it-but-work-on-25-year-old-china-kyrgyzstan-uzbekistan-railway-project-may-finally-start-247096/?source=blogs].

From fertiliser to coal at the Baltic ports

As trade between the EU and Russia slumps, there has been a dramatic fall in the cargo transported to and from Russia and Belarus via the main Baltic ports. Yet data provided by the main ports – Riga in Latvia, Klaipeda in Lithuania and Tallinn in Estonia – shows this has to a great extent been compensated for by other traffic.

Algis Latakas, CEO of the Klaipeda State Seaport Authority that manages the Port of Klaipeda, said in November that although the Klaipeda port was predicting a gloomy 2022 with a drop of up to 35% in cargo turnover, the year turned out much better: the general cargo handling volumes in the Port of Klaipeda in 2022 fell by only 19.7% during 10 months of 2022 y/y, to 30.02mn tonnes.

For many years, Belarusian fertiliser cargoes have made up a significant part of the port’s cargo turnover. In 2021, Belarusian fertiliser cargo accounted for 32% of total transport by volume, while Russian, Ukrainian and Chinese cargoes accounted for around 8% more. In 2022, however, Belarusian cargoes comprised just a mere 11-12% of the total cargo transported through the port. With the start of the war in Ukraine in late February 2022 and the subsequent sanction packages against Russia, those transit cargoes just disappeared.

The Port of Riga recorded an increased container cargo volume with 460,700 TEUs in 2022, a record-high cargo turnover rate, exceeding the previous year's result by 16%, and transshipped 326,000 TEUs, which is the highest annual turnover in its history.

Importantly, in 2022, coal transportation returned to the port of Riga, and with a turnover of 5.2mn tonnes, it formed the second-largest group of handled cargo. Compared to the previous year, when coal transshipment in the port of Riga had practically stopped, in 2022 the flow of coal increased 4.6 times. Instead of Russian coal transit, coal from Kazakhstan, Africa, Australia, Indonesia and other coal-mining countries is currently being handled at the port.

In 2022, the Port of Tallinn saw 18mn tonnes of cargo pass through the port, a 21% decrease y/y, due to the implementation of sanctions on Russian and Belarussian cargo. However, the decline in liquid bulk and dry bulk volumes due to sanctions was somewhat offset by growth in all other cargo types, the port said.

New natural gas routes

Sanctions and fears of a Russian decision to sever supplies have led Central and Southeast European countries to intensify their search for alternative suppliers of natural gas, with many alighting on Azerbaijan. The country had long been seen as an important supplier via the Southern Gas Corridor (SGC), an ambitious project launched long before the war began to diversify Europe’s gas supply away from Russia.

Azerbaijan already supplies some of Southern Europe through the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), but since the start of the war, several Southeast European countries have started investing into new interconnections with their neighbours to enable them to tap into supplies of gas from Azerbaijan. Most recently, Bulgaria started the construction of a new gas link with Serbia with capacity of up to 1.8 bcm a year will help increase energy security and diversify gas supplies, while North Macedonia is working on plans for a gas interconnector with Greece.

At the same time, in 2022 EU became the world leader in LNG imports, overtaking China, Japan and South Korea, according to data from consultancy Refinitiv[https://news.us20.list-manage.com/track/click?u=f752eb690049fc68524960a91&id=645cb1056a&e=5d00ce5559].

During the year, EU countries expanded LNG purchases by 58%, up to 101mn tonnes, equivalent to 137 bcm of natural gas, slightly less than the 155 bcm Russia delivered to the EU in 2021.

Earlier the IEA reported that Russian sent slightly more than 100 bcm of gas to the EU in 2022, and after the explosions appeared to have caused leaks in the two main Nord Stream gas pipelines[https://intellinews.com/seismologists-record-explosions-in-area-of-nord-stream-leaks-257712/?source=russia] on September 26 last year, the total piped gas deliveries to the EU are anticipated to fall to between 50 bcm and 60 bcm, almost exclusively via Turkey and Ukraine.

Germany remains the largest market for natural gas in Europe and until recently had Russia as its largest supplier. This position is now held by Norway, which has ramped up pipe gas supply to the country over recent months. Germany has rushed into operation five floating LNG (FLNG) terminals and is currently building its first onshore terminal, which could come into operation by this coming winter.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230221ej2l003h1


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10822
Justina Vaišvilaitė
3890 字
2023 年 2 月 22 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10822 (95228) WEDNESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 22

 

PRESIDENT THANKS NETHERLANDS FOR CONTRIBUTION TO REGIONAL SECURITY

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – On Tuesday, President Gitanas Nausėda met with King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands in the Presidential Palace.

The meeting focussed on discussing bilateral relations, regional security issues, Russia’s war in Ukraine and preparations for the NATO summit in Vilnius, the presidency said. Before the meeting, the king of the Netherlands visited Dutch troops stationed in Lithuania

In a joint press conference after the meeting, President Nausėda thanked the Netherlands for its contribution to the security of Lithuania and the Baltic region and its continued commitment to the defence of the region.

"In these times of geopolitical turning point, we are grateful to your country for its contribution to the security of our region. Today we visited the Dutch troops deployed in the NATO Forward Presence Battle Group in Pabradė. Their presence on our territory demonstrates the unity of the Allies and their commitment to each other’s defence,” Nausėda said, addressing the king.

The Netherlands has been assisting the Baltic region in ensuring air security as part of NATO air policing mission since 2005, the president recalled.

"Lithuanian and Dutch troops train and exercise together. I hope that the excellent defence cooperation between our countries will continue and expand,” the president said.

King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands voiced his admiration for the Lithuanian Armed Forces and the determination of Lithuanian troops.

The king also noted that soldiers from different European countries arriving in Lithuania and cooperating with each other is proof of not only the friendship between Lithuania and the Netherlands, but also the friendship within Europe as a whole, which is critically important in a difficult geopolitical period.

 

PRESIDENT HEADS TO WARSAW FOR B9 SUMMIT WITH BIDEN, STOLTENBERG

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – On Wednesday, President Gitanas Nausėda will be in Warsaw to attend a summit of the Bucharest Nine (B9) that will be joined by US President Joe Biden.

The leaders of NATO’s eastern flank are also set to meet with Secretary General of the Alliance Jens Stoltenberg.

The summit will focus on regional security, support for Ukraine and preparations for the NATO summit in Vilnius this July. Issues to be discussed in Warsaw will also cover regional forward defence, air defence systems, and increased investment in the defence industry, the presidency announced.

The Bucharest Nine includes Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia.

A nine-state cooperation format was launched in order to defend shared security interests of the region within NATO following Russia’s aggression in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea.

 

UKRAINE’S ZELENSKY PLANS TO ATTEND NATO VILNIUS SUMMIT – MEDIA

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky is planning to arrive to Vilnius for the NATO summit, Ambassador of Ukraine to Lithuania Petro Beshta told the BNS news agency.

When asked whether Zelensky intended to come to the Alliance’s summit in Vilnius, the ambassador confirmed the plan, noting that Ukraine first needs an invitation as it is not a NATO member.

According to Beshta, his country expects to receive the invitation for the event, hoping to have "drastically changed” the war-related situation by then.

The NATO Summit in Vilnius will take place on 11–12 July this year.

Since the start of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February last year, Ukrainian President Zelensky has been on few foreign trips, namely to the US, the UK, France, Belgium and Poland.

 

NEARLY 15,000 MEMBERS OF ELECTORAL COMMITTEES TOWORK ON MUNICIPAL AND MAYORAL ELECTIONS

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – In preparation for municipal and mayoral elections on 5 March, the Central Electoral Commission (VRK) has hired nearly 14,900 individuals to ensure smooth organisation of elections.

Approximately 700 members of municipal electoral committees operate in 60 of Lithuania’s municipalities. Municipal electoral committees created polling district municipal committees, accepted candidates’ applications, checked voter signature collection forms, registered election observers, organised and will observe voting in municipalities until the Election Day. Municipal electoral committees also carry out monitoring of political advertising and investigate potential violations of election laws.

Voters will cast ballots in 1,927 polling districts on 5 March. The Code on Elections stipulates that a polling district electoral committee has to consist of at least 5 members.

A total of 14,200 members will help organise elections at polling district electoral committees. Their duties include distributing election notices to voters, compiling the Electoral Roll of voters at home, organising voting in hospitals, social care homes, military units, penal institutions and at home.

Members of polling district electoral committees also work on the Election Day at polling stations, count the votes when polling stations close and carry out other tasks related to organising elections.

 

CONTRACT SIGNED FOR CONSTRUCTIONS OF INFRASTRUCTURE TO HOST ALLIED FORCES

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – The Ministry of National Defence is implementing an infrastructure development project in preparation for hosting the NATO Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), the Ministry said in a statement.

The contract was signed by the NATO Support and Procurement Agency (NSPA) as the project coordinator and Merko Statyba UAB. As a result, 10 buildings will be constructed to house barracks, mess-hall, vehicle repair facility, helipads, multipurpose facility, etc. The work is planned to be completed by 2026. The assessed worth of the contract is over EUR 110 million.

"We are developing infrastructure to ensure proper deployment conditions for Allied forces in Lithuania as a means to strengthen deterrence and defence. It is one of our top priorities in ensuring security in the country and the region,” says Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas.

Completion of the project will make the Pabradė Training Area capable of hosting up to 3 thousand military personnel and one of the most developed military ranges in the Baltics. It will ensure good conditions for training activities and resting, as well as logistical and technical support.

It is just one of the several Lithuanian Armed Forces modernisation projects the Ministry of National Defence is implementing with coordination by the NATO Support and Procurement Agency.

 

CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT ADMITS SANCTIONS ARE VIOLATED IN ISOLATED CASES

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – Head of the Customs Department Darius Žvironas admits that it is impossible to prevent all attempts of circumvention of the European Union’s sanctions on Russia and Belarus.

"This is a constant process. We cannot promise that we will immediately prevent all possible attempts as new schemes emerge constantly, new ways to try to evade sanctions,” said Žvironas.

According to the head of the Customs Department, last autumn attempts were made to import pellets for heating despite sanctions. Whereas now, with spring approaching, it may be sought to transport fertilisers from Belarus to Lithuania. Therefore, risk management mechanisms are always updated to prevent the evasion of sanctions.

Žvironas says from 500 to 1,000 vehicles enter Lithuania each day and from 20 to 30 of them are stopped from entering or exiting the country. However, he admitted that in isolated cases sometimes it might be possible to evade sanctions.

On Monday, investigative journalism centre Siena reported how Belarusian fertilisers are imported to Lithuania despite sanctions. Fertilisers produced by Belarusian factory Grodno Azot are transported to Lithuania by both semi-trailers and trains although the EU imposed sanctions on the company at the end of 2021.

However, the head of the Customs Department noted that last year there were 27,000 cases when sanctioned goods were stopped from being moved from Russia and Belarus to Lithuania and vice versa.

Commenting about the journalistic investigation, he said the case was known to the Customs Department as in early February several railway wagons were stopped on their way to Klaipėda seaport and fertiliser samples were taken during Customs control procedures.

Moreover, due to attempts to circumvent sanctions, the Customs Department will submit to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs amendments to existing regulations.

Meanwhile, Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis questioned why the media reported about sanction evasion instead of special services alerting the authorities about this. He added that the Customs Department is responsible for overseeing which shipments are allowed to cross the border.

EU sanctions apply not only on Grodno Azot but also on Birių krovinių terminalas (Bulk Cargo Terminal, BKT), a company operating in Klaipėda seaport whose 30% of shares are owned by the Belarusian state company Belaruskalij. BKT did not deny that Belarusian carbamide had been imported but refused to go into detail citing commercial secrets.

Both Lithuanian Railways and the Ministry of Transport and Communications addressed prosecutors last week to determine the origin of the shipment of carbamide for BKT.

Lithuanian Railways said it detained 15 railway wagons with around 50 tonnes of Belarusian fertilisers worth EUR 327,000 that were attempted to be imported in violation of sanctions.

The freight in question was transported from Belarus to Lithuania on 10 February through Stasylos railway station, which was closed on 16 February in a strive to stop the smuggling of Belarusian goods until an x-ray machine is installed there.

 

LITHUANIAN LASER LABORATORY TO BE ESTABLISHED IN TAIWAN

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian Laser Association (LLA) has signed an agreement with the Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) on creation of the joint laser technology research and innovation centre in Taiwan.

The Ministry of the Economy and Innovation stated on Tuesday that the centre would be opened in autumn of 2023.

"Bilateral economic ties with Taiwan are developed consistently and 2023 should be a breakthrough year. We are seeking to accelerate bilateral cooperation of technology companies, to take better advantage of Lithuania’s information, communications and financial technologies so that as many as possible Taiwanese technology companies would start setting up shop and investing in Lithuania,” says Deputy Minister of the Economy and Innovation Karolis Žemaitis.

President of the Lithuania Laser Association (LLA) Gediminas Račiukaitis believes that the new centre will help Lithuanian laser companies to access semiconductor and electronics industry supply chains.

Moreover, the Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Taiwanese National Association of Industry and Commerce (CNAIC) and on Friday will sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the National Federation of Industries (CNFI).

The agreements foresee sharing information about business interests of Taiwanese and Lithuanian companies, potential partnerships, visits for business cooperation, facilitate participation in trade or investment projects in Lithuania, Taiwan or third countries, as well as sharing information striving to create favourable trade and investment environment in Lithuania and Taiwan.

In 2022, Lithuania’s trade with Taiwan soared by more than 50% and exceeded EUR 167 million.

 

LITHUANIAN RAILWAYS CONTINUES USING RUSSIAN-MADE LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY SYSTEM – MEDIA

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – News website Lrytas has reported that state-owned enterprise Lithuanian Railways (LTG) launched a EUR 2.2 million tender for the procurement of maintenance services for the KLUB-U train control system.

Based on the article, the Russian-made KLUB-U (Unified Integrated Train Protection System) already attracted the attention of the Lithuanian Parliament’s Committee on National Security and Defence five years ago. Legislators concluded after a probe that the system is incompatible with Lithuania’s national security interests and had to be replaced by equipment of reliable manufacturers.

According to Lrytas, the decision to announce the tender for electronic map creation and installation services may be perceived as indirect support for Russia’s military industrial complex at the time when Russia is at war with Ukraine.

Meanwhile, LTG argues that KLUB-U system is still being used and requires technical maintenance to meet the requirements and ensure safe train traffic.

The company claims it plans to switch to a new system by 2026-2027 depending on financial capabilities of LTG group of companies.

 

BORDER GUARD SERVICE REPORTS ZERO ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSINGS

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) says that no illegal border crossing attempts have been observed in Lithuania for a fourth consecutive day.

Latvia reported it had denied entry to nine foreign nationals trying to cross into the country illegally from Belarus on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, Polish border guards pushed back 95 illegal migrants on Monday.

According to the VSAT, this year, by 21 February, 357 migrants tried to access Lithuania from Belarus illegally.

Since 3 August 2021, when the VSAT was instructed to turn away illegal migrants attempting to cross the state border at unauthorised locations, more than 19 thousand migrants have been denied entry from Belarus to Lithuania.

 

PORT OF KLAIPĖDA HANDLES 2.77MN TONNES OF CARGO IN JANUARY 2023

 

Klaipėda, February 21 (ELTA) – The Port of Klaipėda handled 2.77 million tonnes of cargo in January 2023, a decrease of 27% or 1 million tonnes compared with January 2022, when 3.8 million tonnes of cargo were handled.

Handling of liquid cargo (petroleum products, liquefied natural gas, oils etc.) increased by 28%, from 571,000 tonnes in January 2022 to 734,000 tonnes in January 2023.

Cargo handling results were mostly affected by a 55% decrease in bulk cargo as a result of sanctions on various products. Bulk cargo handling decreased from 1.99 million tonnes in January 2022 to 0.9 million tonnes in January 2023. This segment consists mostly of fertilisers, raw sugar and peat.

General cargo handling (containers, timber, iron and steel products, metal constructions, frozen and ro-ro cargoes) decreased by 8% in a year, from 1.23 million tonnes in January 2022 to 1.13 million tonnes in January 2023.

In January 2023, the Port of Klaipėda ranked fourth in terms of cargo handling among other nearby ports on the eastern shore of the Baltic Sea.

 

NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION DOWN BY 48% IN LITHUANIA – EUROSTAT

 

Luxembourg, February 21 (ELTA) – The EU consumption of natural gas has dropped by 19.3% in the period August 2022-January 2023, compared with the average gas consumption for the same months (August-January) between 2017 and 2022.

This information comes from energy data published by Eurostat and transmitted by the National Statistical Institutes of the Member States.

The Council Regulation (EU) 2022/1369 on coordinated demand-reduction measures for gas, part of the REPowerEU plan to end EU dependence on Russian fossil fuels, set a reduction target of 15% for the period August 2022-March 2023 as compared to the average of the same period of the five previous consecutive years.

Between August 2022 and January 2023, among EU countries, Ireland (-0.3%) registered the smallest decrease in natural gas consumption in the reference period, while Spain (-13.7%) and Slovenia (-14.2%) recorded a significant drop but have not yet reached the 15% target. In other EU members, consumption dropped beyond the 15% target, in some, by a large margin (above 40%).

Consumption fell the most in Finland (-57.3%), Lithuania (-47.9%) and Sweden (-40.2%).

 

NEO FINANCE POSTS EUR 3.5MN REVENUE IN 2022

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – NEO Finance AB has published the interim report and unaudited financial statements for the 12 months of 2022. Q4 2022 was a successful quarter for NEO Finance on all indicators, the company said in a press release.

In Q4 2022, compared to Q4 2021, the amount of loans granted grew by 55% and revenue by 11%. The company’s profitability indicators, EBITDA and profit before tax, grew respectively: EBITDA from a negative amount of EUR -12,291 to EUR 162,817 and profit from a negative amount of EUR -79,076 to EUR 75,951. As the recognition of the company’s income is delayed compared to the period of the loans granted, the rapid growth of the loan volumes allows for a faster growth of income in the future. Revenue related to the issuance and management of electronic money grew by 23% in the quarter compared to the same quarter in 2021. Q4 growth outpaced that of 2022 as a whole. This was mainly driven by increased volumes of payment initiation services.

According to unaudited data, company’s revenue in 2022 was EUR 3,530,460 and increased by 3% compared to 2021. Cost of sales decreased by 7%, from EUR 1,769,674 in 2021 to EUR 1,650,676 while operating costs increased from EUR 1,250,886 to EUR 1,721,176 in 2022 resulting in 38% increase. EBITDA increased by 9.5% from EUR 422,522 to EUR 462,603 and profit before taxes for 2022 was EUR 158,608 while pre-tax profit in 2021 was EUR 179,054. Net profit for the reporting period has decreased by 12 % from EUR 117,739 in 2021 to EUR 103,895 in 2022.

After the end of the reporting period, 9 February 2023, NEO Finance AB was awarded the prize for the best performance in capital market development in Lithuania at Nasdaq Baltic Awards 2023. This is a significant recognition, which shows that the company played an important role in the local capital market in 2022 by consistently developing investment products and by striving to provide investors with the most complete and transparent information possible.

In order to implement the company’s strategy, the focus will continue to be on growing both Neopay’s business and lending platforms: Paskolų klubas and Finomark. The company has focused a significant part of its human and financial resources on product development and expansion, as well as on increasing business volumes, and it is expected to see faster revenue growth in 2023 than in 2022.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Wednesday, February 22

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to attend the Bucharest Nine summit with US President Joe Biden and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg (Warsaw, Poland).

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to give an interview to the radio station Žinių radijas (8:00);

-- -- to attend a meeting of the Board of the Seimas (9:00);

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (10:00);

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (15:00).

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to chair a sitting of the Government (13:00).

MINISTRIES

-- Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis to pay a working visit to the United Kingdom;

-- Minister of the Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė to participate in the Women Go Tech press conference (10:00);

-- Minister of Agriculture Kęstutis Navickas to visit the United Arab Emirates.

-- END.

 

 

 

ESTONIAN ELECTION DEBATE ON SPORTS: AGGRESSOR COUNTRIES MUST NOT BE AT OLYMPICS

 

Tallinn, February 21 (ELTA) – Ahead of the upcoming Riigikogu elections, the Estonian Olympic Committee (EOK) held a debate on issues related to sports, with representatives of Estonia’s political parties presenting their respective positions, reports public broadcaster ERR.

However, the issue of Russian and Belarusian athletes’ potential participation in the 2024 Paris Summer Olympics and how Estonia should act if they are allowed to take part, was impossible to avoid.

Kristina Kallas (Eesti 200), Heino Märks (EKRE), Marko Kaljuveer (Isamaa), Mihhail Kõlvart (Center), Jüri Jaanson (Reform) and current Minister of Culture Piret Hartman (SDE) all took part in the debate.

In recent weeks, there has been a great deal of talk about the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) recent statement, that Russian and Belarusian athletes should gradually be allowed back to compete in international sporting events. Some have suggested that to do so, they would have to compete as "neutral” athletes, unable to use their national flags or anthems.

Estonian culture min signs joint statement on Russian athletes ban – ERR

Tallinn, February 21 (ELTA) – Estonian Minister of Culture Piret Hartman signed a joint statement by sports ministers and senior officials from 34 countries, stressing that there is no practical reason to consider allowing the full return of Russian and Belarusian athletes to international sporting competition, reports Estonia’s public broadcaster ERR.

The joint statement emphasises, that Russia’s aggression in Ukraine continues and that the situation has only worsened since February 2022. The ministers also asserted, there solidarity with the Ukrainian athletes, "whose facilities have been destroyed and who have had to leave their country (or stay to fight for the defence of Ukraine in which very many have lost their lives).” As a result, the statement continues, "there is no practical reason to move away from the exclusion regime for Russian and Belarusian athletes set by the IOC in their statement of 28 February 2022.”

The ministers also pointed out, that, "through their choices, action and ongoing invasion Russia broke the Olympic Truce that has been continuously supported by the United Nations General Assembly since 1993.”

 

IT IS VITAL FOR EU ENERGY MARKET REFORM TO ACT AS STIMULUS TO INVESTMENT INTO RENEWABLE RESOURCES – LATVIAN FORMIN

 

Riga, February 21 (ELTA) – On 21 February, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Latvia Edgars Rinkēvičs took part in the meeting of the General Affairs Council of the European Union in Brussels, which featured an exchange of views on an annotated draft agenda of the European Council on 23-24 March, including the topics related to Ukraine and Russia, economy and energy.

Edgars Rinkēvičs voiced his support for the agenda of the European Council to be held in March, reports the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia.

In a discussion on energy and the next winter period, the minister drew attention to the need to take stock of progress in the EU’s energy sector. Regardless of this year’s warm winter, vigilance needs to be maintained and attention paid to the situation in preparation for the next heating season. Therefore, any further work must be preceded by a systematic and broad assessment of a possible electricity market reform. It is also important for the reform of the EU electricity market to provide an incentive for investment in renewable energy.

The long-term competitiveness and productivity of the EU economy were also discussed. The minister expressed the opinion that an open and ambitious trade policy was an essential pillar in enhancing the EU’s competitiveness.

 

AIRBALTIC INTRODUCES REVOLUT PAYMENT OPTION

 

Riga, February 21 (ELTA) – The Latvian airline airBaltic announces a new convenient and secure addition to its online payment options – Revolut bank transfer – the company said in a press release.

Starting with February, it is available on the homepage www.airbaltic.com[http://www.airbaltic.com] for passengers, who have chosen to make payments from their bank account via Klix service app, provided by Citadele bank.

Jolanta Rema, vice president e-commerce and commercial distribution of airBaltic said, "We are committed to offer passengers an excellent service, which also means – payment options tailored to customer needs, when purchasing flight tickets. Similar to airBaltic, Citadele is a company of innovations, thus we are happy to extend our partnership, and approach passengers with an even wider range of payment solutions, as well as improved user experience.”

Vladislavs Mironovs, Citadele member of the Management Board, chief strategy officer comments, "Klix solution gives travellers more freedom to pay online. Planning travels is one of the most important parts before highly anticipated trip and Klix together with the customer journey of airBaltic makes it seamless.”

Over 25 million customers are using the Revolut digital bank globally, of whom more than 160,000 in Latvia.

airBaltic provides flights to more than 70 destinations from Riga, Tallinn, Vilnius and Tampere, offering connections to a wide range of destinations in the airline’s route network in Europe, Scandinavia, the CIS and the Middle East.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230222ej2m000gp


Baltics and Poland push to make sanctioning oligarchs’ associates easier - diplomats
LETA
633 字
2023 年 2 月 22 日 13:42 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
BRUSSELS, Feb 22 (LETA--POLITICO) - The Baltic states and Poland want to make it easier to sanction the family members and entourage of Russia's richest men and women but are facing resistance from Hungary, several EU diplomats told the Politico news portal.

Under its current rules, the EU can freeze the assets and impose visa bans on "leading businesspersons operating in Russia." Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland now want to expand this definition, according to their proposal seen by Politico, to include "their immediate family members, or other natural persons, benefitting from them."

The EU has sanctioned more than 1,400 people in relation to Russia's activities in Ukraine, many of who are Russian oligarchs. An additional 96 people could be added to the EU's next sanctions package, draft documents seen by Politico indicate. Including oligarchs' family members and other associates of oligarchs would make it possible to sanctions thousands more people without having to prove that they are directly involved in the war in Ukraine or acting in the economic interest of the Russian state.

This could, for example, apply to the ex-wife of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Lyudmila Ocheretnaya, whose daughters have been sanctioned but has not been herself, and other members of the oligarchs' entourage.

While some countries had doubts, legal experts are on board, said one of the diplomats.

Yet, in a meeting on Tuesday, at which EU ambassadors discussed the bloc's next round of sanctions, Hungary resisted such plans, the diplomats said. Budapest argued that this is not part of the 10th sanctions package, said one of the diplomats. Hungary has long been skeptical of including too many names on the list.

Hungary also pushed to strike four people out the already existing sanctions list, two of the diplomats said.

It was not immediately possible to learn the identity of the four individuals.

That request is igniting tensions, and will be likely subject to another heated debate during a meeting of EU ambassadors on Wednesday. During that meeting, they will not only discuss the new package of sanctions against Russia, but also the so-called rollover of the 1,400-plus names already on the list to keep them sanctioned.

That's because the regime is subject to a six-month review, which has hitherto been more or less a formality. Now, Hungary is using this extension review as leverage by insisting that four specific people have to be struck from the EU’s existing sanctions list before it will agree to the rollover. If Hungary blocks the rollover and refuses to compromise, all 1,400 people would be de-listed, the two diplomats warned.

One of the diplomats didn't hide his frustration: "It shows Hungary’s disregard for unity and European values that they are willing to risk this in the week where we commemorate one year since the Russian invasion," he said.

And those aren't the only measure that Hungary takes issue with. It also is chiefly against sanctioning personnel working in the nuclear sector.

But a Hungarian official poured water on this last point, saying that “the only open issue for Hungary is with the length of the rollover and not with the listings.”

On the oligarchs issue and the proposal of the Baltics and Poland, the same Hungarian official said that this is not part of the 10th package.

As all EU countries have to agree to the proposal, any country could veto the move even if all other 26 EU countries were in favor. Time is running out, with the EU wanting to adopt the 10th sanctions package before the one-year anniversary of Russia's invasion of Ukraine on Friday, Politico reports.

39443341324630302D434241362D3443

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230222ej2m001xh


CE Noticias Financieras English
Latvian exports raise suspicions of Russia sanctions evasion
627 字
2023 年 2 月 22 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Juris Kaza

Riga, Feb. 22. Latvian authorities are investigating the sharp rise in exports to Kazakhstan, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan last year, which raises suspicions that these countries are being used to evade sanctions against Russia.

According to Latvia's Official Statistical Portal, "exports to Kazakhstan have increased by €70.4 million or 2.5 times, to Kyrgyzstan by €17 million or 3.5 times and to Armenia by €15 million or 2.8 times" in 2022 compared to 2021.

The data could be an indication that goods that due to sanctions cannot be supplied directly to Russia, such as smartphones and electronic devices, are sent to intermediaries in those countries, which still have relatively open trade with Russia.

Latvian public television LSM reported that precisely those products that are subject to sanctions are those whose export has experienced the highest growth last year.

This has also been confirmed by the customs services, which reported that in 2022 proceedings have been opened for possible sanctions evasion offenses in connection with exports to these three Asian countries.

Andzejs Vilumsons, undersecretary of state at the Latvian Foreign Ministry, explained to EFE that there are clear indications that attempts are being made to evade sanctions against Russia by various means, such as deception in documentation and shipments that are obviously unsuitable for the supposed recipient.

He added that over the past year, customs services have ordered the return of some 3,000 shipments considered suspicious.

For example, customs agents found some truckers "with two sets of documents, one for final delivery to a recipient, for example in Kazakhstan, and a second for the actual recipient in Russia," Vilumsons recounted.

Among the "unusual" exports on the other side were re-exports of goods coming from other parts of Europe and sent to a Latvian distributor as if they were destined for the local market.

Vilumsons explained that if customs officers detect a suspicious shipment a second time at another border crossing, they have the power to confiscate it.

He also noted that Kazakh officials are cooperating with Latvia to shed light on the use of his country in the alleged evasion of sanctions.

"Sanctions are binding on everyone in the European Union. European and UN sanctions are directly applicable in Latvia and have the force of law," Latvia's Ministry of Economy said in an email to EFE.

It added that evasion is punishable under the Latvian criminal code but did not express concern about the unusual changes in export statistics.

"Without excluding the possibility of individual attempts to evade sanctions, in general, from the dynamics of the data we cannot confirm the assumption that the decrease in foreign trade with Russia has been offset by trade with other countries in the region," the ministry said.

"On the contrary, the decrease in the value of transactions with Russia in comparable prices is much faster than the increase in trade with other countries in the region," it concluded.

However, customs officials quoted by LSM said they have detected shipments of goods that cannot be supplied directly to Russia headed for newly founded companies in Kazakhstan, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan.

At least one shipment of components was officially destined for a factory in Kyrgyzstan that does not actually exist.

Although Latvia and the other Baltic countries, which border Russia and Belarus, are the most likely route for the transport of sanctions-evading goods, the authorities claim that they alone cannot prevent or sanction such ploys.

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins and his Lithuanian counterpart Ingryda Simonyte jointly called this month after a meeting in Tallinn for the criminalization of sanctions violations throughout the EU. EFE

jkz/cph/jam

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230222ej2m0083a


We're doing good job in terms of sanction control – Lithuanian PM
BNS/TBT Staff
392 字
2023 年 2 月 23 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS - Lithuania is doing a good job in enforcing the existing international sanctions, Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte says amid media reports that urea fertilizers made by Belarusian company Grodno Azot are illegally transported through Lithuania.

According to the prime minister, attempts to circumvent the sanctions in Lithuania are common due to the country's geographical location. However, she also questioned the responsibility of Lietuvos Gelezinkeliai (Lithuanian Railways, LTG), the country's state-owned railway company

"I believe Lithuania, considering the burden we have – the logistics of exports and imports to and from the European Union - well, we are still managing really well," Simonyte told the Ziniu Radijas news radio on Thursday.

In her words, the import of Belarusian urea into Lithuania by allegedly bypassing the bans does not prove that the state is not able to ensure proper sanction control as the amount of the fertilizers is much lower, compared to previous cargo flows.

"This sometimes leads people to thinking that, look, the sanctions are not working. I would like to remind you that before the sanctions were introduced, the turnover of fertilizers transported by rail in Lithuania stood at around one million tons per month. And now we’re having a discussion about several thousand tons of urea," Simonyte said.

The Belarusian urea may have been imported to Lithuania using forged documents, the prime minister said, adding that and an investigation will answer all questions and reveal how the cargo got to Lithuania, and those responsible will be held accountable for it.

Simonyte says attempts to circumvent the sanctions in Lithuania happen because of the country's geographical location as re-export routes from the West to the East running through the country.

"Lithuania's geographical situation is complicated because we export very little of our own products to Russia or Belarus, our businesses are reoriented towards Western markets. But the re-export logistics system goes a long way. (...) Unfortunately, there are people whose morals allow them to participate in these schemes," the prime minister said.

She also believes any questions regarding LTG's responsibility are valid.

The urea is believed to have been transported by rail to Lithuania from its only producer in Belarus, Grodno Azot, which is subject to the existing EU sanctions.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230223ej2n0000a


Romania This Week - February 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 24 日, 10168 字, (英文)
Bank loans in Romania lag behind inflation at end-JanThe stock of retail loans in Romania has decreased in nominal terms since last September while the stock of corporate loans was marginally pushed up only by bullet loans visible in ...

Kazakhstan This Week - February 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 24 日, 10197 字, (英文)
Kazakhstan ranks 48th out of 192 countries in latest Open Data Inventory rankingKazakhstan has moved up six spots to rank 48th out of 192 countries in the latest Open Data Inventory (ODIN) ranking by Open Data Watch.

Bulgaria This Week - February 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 24 日, 10479 字, (英文)
Net FDI in Bulgaria up 86.2% y/y in 2022 to €2.25bnNet foreign direct investment (FDI) in Bulgaria was €2.25bn in 2022, up by 86.2% year on year, preliminary central bank data showed. The net investment figure is equal to 2.7% of projected ...

Slovakia This Week - February 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 24 日, 7052 字, (英文)
ING: Green sovereign bond sales stabilise and so does the greenium.The euro sovereign and supranational, sub-sovereign and agency (SSA) green bond market is maturing after a turbulent 2022. Supply levels have stabilised and there are signs ...

Ukraine This Week - February 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 24 日, 23481 字, (英文)
Russian invasion of Ukraine costs Germany $100bnGermany is paying a hefty price for Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, which has cost its economy $100bn, Ukraine Business News reported on February 22.

Moldova's proposal to sanction oligarchs who help Russia destabilize Moldova is justified - Foreign Ministry
Inese Trenča
123 字
2023 年 2 月 25 日 14:56 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
RIGA, Feb 25 (LETA) - Moldova's proposal that the European Union (EU) impose sanctions on oligarchs who help Russia destabilize Moldova is justified, the press secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Diana Eglite, told LETA.

She also points out that Moldova's call to the EU has been heard and internal discussions will be held, however, further talks are needed to reach a consensus among EU member states.

On February 20, Moldova urged the EU to impose sanctions on oligarchs who help Russia destabilize Moldova. It comes shortly after accusations that Moscow is preparing a coup to topple the pro-Western government in Chisinau.

45423338334646362D303634372D3436

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230225ej2p000jh


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10828
Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen: Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Karolis Broga
7428 字
2023 年 2 月 27 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10828 (95234) MONDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 27

 

RUSSIA FINDS IT INCREASINGLY DIFFICULT TO MOBILISE ITS SUPPORTERS AT UN – NAUSĖDA

 

Vilnius, February 24 (ELTA) – On Friday, President Gitanas Nausėda participated in the discussion Lithuanian and Regional security: Challenges and Opportunities in the Context of War in Ukraine together with students at the library of Kaunas University of Technology, said the presidency.

The president noted that in the face of the anniversary of Russia’s barbaric aggression against Ukraine, not only Lithuania, but also the entire free world had a strong belief in Ukraine’s ability to resist this brutal aggression, to defeat the enemy, to consolidate democracy, and to create a solid foundation for the future growth of this country.

Nausėda pointed out that Lithuania’s and the region’s security was positively affected by the fact that the assessment of Russia as a potential partner had changed dramatically in the West over the last year. The president underlined that even in the United Nations it was becoming increasingly difficult for Russia to find supporters to justify its aggression. Lithuania seeks the isolation of the aggressor Russia in all international organisations.

Yet, the president also spoke of the need to recognise the continuing dark reality of the war. In his latest state of the nation address, Russia’s dictator once again demonstrated his stubborn determination to continue his murderous aggression, no matter the cost. The Kremlin’s imperialist ambitions threaten not only the very existence of the Ukrainian people, but also the security architecture of Europe.

The students asked the president questions about how he understood the reasons for Russia’s fierce aggression, his opinion on mass conscription, the post-war reconstruction of Ukraine, and the international community’s reaction to Russia’s war against Ukraine.

Nausėda thanked the Lithuanian civil society for supporting the Ukrainian fight in various ways over this year and for making a significant contribution to strengthening Lithuania’s security.

 

TOGETHER WITH UKRAINE UNTIL VICTORY – PRESIDENT

 

Vilnius, February 24 (ELTA) – On Friday, President Gitanas Nausėda participated in the international forum Pursuing President Volodymyr Zelensky’s Peace Formula: Joint Actions of Ukraine and Lithuania towards the Long-Lasting Peace at Vytautas Magnus University. The forum discussed the peace plan proposed by the president of Ukraine, focusing on the areas of accountability for crimes of aggression and energy security, said the presidency.

Addressing the audience, the Lithuanian leader stressed that one year had passed since the start of the ongoing Russian full-scale invasion, and almost nine years since the start of the unprovoked Russian aggression against Ukraine – the country which was still standing strong after much bloodshed and huge sacrifices made by the brave Ukrainian defenders.

The coming months would be crucial for the outcome of the war, and the speed and scope of the Allies’ military and financial support would be key in seeking decisive Ukrainian victory, the president pointed out.

"While Ukrainian people are bravely fighting for their own dignity, identity and the sovereignty of their country, what also weighs on their shoulders is the future of Europe. Only Ukraine’s victory will safeguard our shared values of freedom and democracy as well as the rules-based international order,” Gitanas Nausėda spoke during the forum.

In his speech, the president reiterated Lithuania’s strong support for the initiative to establish a Special International Tribunal to prosecute the crime of aggression in Ukraine.

Gitanas Nausėda underlined that what we needed was peace that is just, sustainable and aimed at discouraging any new acts of aggression. A long-lasting peace as described by President Zelensky in his vision. According to the Lithuanian leader, Ukraine has stated it clearly that key preconditions for peace are the withdrawal of all Russian troops and armed formations and the restoration of justice, including accountability for the crime of aggression and compensation for the damages.

Lithuania remained a loyal ally and reliable partner on Ukraine’s road to European and Euro-Atlantic integration, President Gitanas Nausėda said, and commended the remarkable commitment to the European course shown by the government and people of Ukraine even in the midst of war. The president welcomed the progress that Ukraine had made in implementing reforms and in following the recommendations of the European Commission and called for the start of Ukraine-EU accession negotiations as soon as possible: "Ukraine’s place is in the EU family”.

"For us, there is simply no turning back. Lithuania will stand with Ukraine as long as it takes, and we will contribute as much as possible to the peace we all so sincerely desire,” the Lithuanian leader concluded his speech.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky also addressed the audience remotely at the international forum, which was organised by Vytautas Magnus University and the Embassy of Ukraine in Lithuania, under the patronage of the President of the Republic of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda.

The event was attended by Minister of Justice of Lithuania Ewelina Dobrowolska, Minister of Justice of Ukraine Denys Maliuska, Ambassador of Ukraine to Lithuania Petro Beshta, Rector of Vytautas Magnus University Prof. Juozas Augutis, Head of the Ukrainian Center Algirdas Kumža, representatives of embassies of foreign countries accredited to Lithuania, and representatives of Lithuanian universities, among other participants.

 

CONCLUSIONS SHOULD BE DRAWN FROM RUSSIA’S WAR IN UKRAINE – PARLT SPEAKER

 

Vilnius, February 24 (ELTA) – As the first anniversary of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine is marked on 24 February 2023, Lithuania’s Parliament on Friday hosted the conference One Year of War in Ukraine. Addressing participants of the event, Speaker of the Seimas of Lithuania Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen said that certain conclusions could be drawn from the war already, including how important Western support for Ukraine has been.

"The first conclusion is that some experts both in the West and in the East significantly overestimated the might of the Russian military and underestimated Ukraine’s,” said the speaker.

She pointed out that even though decisions were made on weapons deliveries to Ukraine by the West, yet it would take time for weapons to reach Ukraine, especially heavy equipment needed to achieve a breakthrough in the war and change its course.

What is more, Čmilytė-Nielsen stated that the war also proved that Ukraine is striving for European integration as Europe has what to offer Ukraine and vice versa.

"Whereas Putin’s Russia cannot give anything, it can only take away. Putin’s Russia has already lost Ukraine and is now risking losing Russia itself,” said the speaker.

The conference One Year of War in Ukraine hosted by the Seimas was attended by politicians, diplomats, political scientists and representatives of NGOs to discuss the security situation in the region, Russia’s military potential, scenarios for Ukraine’s victory and how the standpoint of the West towards the Kremlin’s threat has changed.

 

PROCESSION AND CONCERT HELD IN VILNIUS IN SUPPORT OF UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 24 (ELTA) – Several thousand people gathered in Vilnius in support of Ukraine on Friday evening, 24 February, to mark the first anniversary of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The event started by observing a moment of silence for those killed in the war started by Russia.

People attended the rally in Vilnius Cathedral Square carrying Ukrainian, Belarusian and Lithuanian flags, including a 50-metre-long Ukrainian and Lithuanian flags, banners expressing support for Ukraine and sunflowers, which have become a symbol of Ukraine. Participants chanted slogans supporting Ukraine and also displayed banners condemning Russia’s aggression.

The procession from Cathedral Square to Independence Square was attended and speeches delivered by Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė, Parliament Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen, Ambassador of Ukraine Petro Beshta and US Ambassador Robert S. Gilchrist.

The head of Government stated that the brutal war waged by the Kremlin has united the Lithuanian people who have shown solidarity and whose goal it is to help Ukraine.

On Friday evening, a concert is also held in Independence Square near the parliament building. It closes the Radarom! crowdfunding campaign aimed at collecting money for radars that would be transferred to Ukraine to protect the country.

The audience was addressed by President Gitanas Nausėda, Parliament Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen, Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas, former Conservative leader Vytautas Landsbergis, Ukrainian Ambassador Petro Beshta and others.

 

SOLIDARITY CAMPAIGN WITH UKRAINE TITLED NO PUTIN, NO WAR WAS HELD IN CATHEDRAL SQUARE

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – On Saturday, 25 February, a solidarity and support campaign for Ukraine was held in Cathedral Square in Vilnius.

People who joined the campaign No Putin, No War called for Ukraine’s victory in the war launched by Russia and freedom from Vladimir Putin for Russia.

More than 100 participants of the event expressed their solidarity with Ukraine, displayed its flags and banners in support of the country invaded by Russia. Some also carried white-blue-white flags, a symbol of opposition against the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Protesters also brought an effigy of Russian President Vladimir Putin closed in a cage.

 

AMBASSADOR HIGHLIGHTS US COMMITMENT TO CONTINUE HELPING UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 24 (ELTA) – US Ambassador to Lithuania Robert S. Gilchrist says President Joe Biden’s visit to Kyiv on 20 February has demonstrated the United States’ resolve to support Ukraine.

The ambassador told the news agency ELTA on Friday that Biden made historic visits to Kyiv and Warsaw, showing determination of the United States to continue rendering assistance to Ukraine in cooperation with partners in Europe and elsewhere in the world.

Mr Gilchrist stated that democracies of the world are committed to support Ukraine, while the US would continue providing weapons, economic aid and do everything to help Ukraine.

The ambassador added that the US administration has also highlighted the need to investigate crimes against humanity and ensure that justice would be served.

Friday, 24 February, marks one year since Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified full-scale invasion of Ukraine.

 

NATO SECRETARY GENERAL INVITES ZELENSKY TO ATTEND NATO SUMMIT IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said in an interview to the public broadcaster LRT that he has invited President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky to attend the NATO Summit in Vilnius, which will take place on 11-12 July.

The NATO secretary general strongly believes that the Summit will showcase solidarity and support for Ukraine, and expressed hope that Zelensky would be able to participate.

Mr Stoltenberg stated that allied unity and strength seemed to be the only language Russian President Vladimir Putin understood. The head of NATO stated that when deciding to invade Ukraine Putin underestimated the determination of Ukrainian leadership and the Armed Forces to fight for the country, as well as the resolve of foreign allies and partners to support Ukraine.

What is more, Stoltenberg noted that Lithuania has supported Ukraine for years and provided especially much aid after the invasion, placing Lithuania among the largest donors in terms of GDP.

The NATO secretary general emphasised that allies support Ukraine to send a message to Putin that he will not win on the battlefield and thus he must recognise Ukraine’s sovereignty and end the war by withdrawing Russian forces.

Furthermore, the head of NATO added that the Summit in Vilnius would be historic and would demonstrate allied unity in supporting Ukraine. He hopes new regional security plans and greater defence funding will be agreed and 2% of GDP funding for defence should be the minimum threshold.

Lithuania’s current defence spending stands at 2.52% of GDP.

 

FORMIN REGRETS THAT ROSATOM WAS NOT INCLUDED IN 10TH PACKAGE OF EU SANCTIONS

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis regrets that the European Union’s 10th package of sanctions against Russia did not include Rosatom State Nuclear Energy Corporation.

The head of Lithuania’s diplomacy says the latest package of sanctions is a small step that took a while to be made, but it is nonetheless in the right direction.

"Lithuanian diplomats contributed a lot to preparing concrete sanction proposals and evidence packages. We still have to regret that in this stage we did not sanction Rosatom, while our partners often negotiate not how to add and impose new sanctions, but how to negotiate exemptions and transitional periods,” Landsbergis said in a comment sent to the news agency ELTA.

In the 10th package of sanctions against Russia, the EU has included 120 individuals and entities to the sanction list. The new bans and restrictions cover EU exports worth EUR 11.4 billion and as of now the EU has sanctioned 49% of its 2021 exports to Russia.

New export restrictions have been imposed on sensitive dual-use and advanced technologies. Now the total of 506 military end-users are listed in sanctions.

Export bans now include: heavy trucks, semi-trailers and special vehicles; goods easily directed to the Russian military, such as electric generators, binoculars, radars and compasses; construction goods such as bridges and structures for buildings; goods critical for the functioning and enhancement of Russian industrial capacity; complete industrial plants; and goods used in the aviation industry (turbojets).

Import bans now include bitumen and related materials like asphalt, as well as synthetic rubber and carbon blacks.

Other restrictions include a ban on Russian nationals from serving on governing bodies of EU member states’ critical infrastructure companies, a prohibition on Russian nationals and entities to book gas storage capacity in the EU (excluding LNG), and measures to facilitate the divestment from Russia by EU operators.

 

ILLEGAL MIGRANTS DID NOT ATTEMPT TO CROSS FROM BELARUS TO LITHUANIA FOR 9 DAYS STRAIGHT

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) has not detected attempts by migrants to cross illegally from Belarus to Lithuania for 9 days in a row.

However, 17 migrants tried to enter Latvia from Belarus illegally on 24 February, 11 on 25 February and 9 on 26 February.

Meanwhile, Polish border guards stopped 92 migrants from illegally entering Poland from Belarus on 23 February, 55 on 24 February and 42 on 25 February.

Data published by the VSAT show that 357 illegal migrants tried to cross the border from Belarus to Lithuania so far in 2023, compared with 11,211 in 2022 and 8,120 in 2021, since 3 August until the end of the year.

Since the migrant crisis caused by Belarus, the VSAT has thwarted 19,672 illegal border crossing attempts.

 

TRANSPORT MIN WILL VISIT SWEDEN

 

Vilnius, February 24 (ELTA) – Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis will visit Sweden on 26-28 February, where he will participate in an informal meeting of EU transport ministers in Stockholm and meet with Minister of Infrastructure of Sweden Andreas Carlson.

On 27-28 February, EU transport ministers will gather for an informal meeting to discuss a shift to climate neutral transport and reduction of vehicle emissions striving for long-term and sustainable decisions in transport and logistics.

In the bilateral meeting, Lithuanian and Swedish ministers will address closer cooperation opportunities in the area of maritime transport and discuss the review of the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T) regulations and the agenda of Sweden’s Presidency of the Council of the European Union.

Minister Skuodis also plans to view Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s remote tower centre, as well as to visit Stockholm port and meet with its leadership.

Sweden, which holds the Presidency of the Council of the EU, highlights such matters as aid to Ukraine, EU energy security and independence, fulfilment of goals tackling climate change and enhancement of EU competitiveness, which are also important for Lithuania.

 

COMPETITION COUNCIL AND PARTNERS FINISHED EU TWINNING PROJECT IN UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – This week, the Lithuanian, German and Romanian authorities partnering under the EU twinning project Legal and Enforcement Support to the Anti-monopoly Committee of Ukraine (AMCU) met to discuss the results that they have achieved during the project implementation, reports the Competition Council of Lithuania.

Over 30 representatives of relevant authorities of Ukraine, including the AMCU as the main beneficiary, high-level decision makers, EU representatives and other stakeholders attended the final online event of this international project.

Throughout the project, the experts of the Competition Council together with their colleagues from German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy, the Federal Cartel Office (Bundeskartellamt), as well as the Romanian Competition Council, shared the best European practices of the antitrust enforcement, merger control and competition advocacy with the AMCU, strengthened the culture of competition in Ukraine. During 800 working hours, an international team of experts conducted trainings and seminars for Ukrainian specialists, shared their professional experience, working practices and insights, assisted the AMCU in further approximation of local competition law and procedures with EU competition rules. 28 experts from Germany, 23 from Romania, and 14 from Lithuania were actually involved in project’s missions.

An international project started in May 2020 and continued despite the Russia’s war against Ukraine.

Over the last almost three years, nearly 2,000 employees of the AMCU participated in trainings, 35 consultations in specific cases were held, two sets of draft amendments to the Law on Competition of Ukraine were prepared, and 21 secondary legal acts were proposed, including various guidelines and guidance documents. In addition, the procedures applied by the AMCU for implementing competition law were improved to enrich the quality of the AMCU’s decisions. The AMCU improved its PR and competition advocacy efforts with both businesses and the Ukrainian society at large aiming to change their false perceptions of the competition legislation and the AMCU’s functions. Also, AMCU’s staff capacity for public outreach and advocacy was improved.

Olha Pishchanska, head of the AMCU, was pleased that the first set of draft amendments to the Law on Competition prepared together with international partners had already been submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament for consideration. Once the draft and other secondary legal acts are adopted, the AMCU will be able to apply the basic principles and standards used by other EU competition institutions in its work and to finally prepare the second set of draft amendments to the Law on Competition for submission before the Parliament.

Šarūnas Keserauskas, chairman of the Competition Council, the twinning project leader, also emphasised the importance of the competition rules in general, because they form the basis for the economic constitution of any country and the EU.

"We are happy with the results we have achieved but we have to keep an eye on the future – there are still many things to do. Despite the fact that the project ends, international partners stand ready to continue providing Ukraine with full assistance”, said Keserauskas.

The twinning project was funded by the European Union with a contribution of EUR 1.2 million. The Lithuanian Central Project Management Agency ensured the overall project administrative and financial management.

 

LITHUANIANS MORE OPTIMISTIC ABOUT ECONOMY, FEBRUARY POLL SHOWS

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – In February 2023, the consumer confidence indicator in Lithuania stood at minus 3 and, against January, increased by 1 percentage point, the State Data Agency said.

Compared to January, Lithuanians had slightly more pessimistic expectations for the changes in the household’s financial situation, but slightly better opinion of the changes in the household’s financial situation in the last 12 months, slightly more optimistic expectations for the changes in the country’s economic situation, and intended to spend more on larger purchases, according to the agency.

In February, compared to January, the population provided slightly better assessment of the changes in the household’s financial situation in the last 12 months: the proportion of those indicating improvement grew by 2 percentage points (from 16 to 18%), and as in the previous month, deterioration was indicated by 37% of the population.

In February, compared to January, the population’s expectations for the changes in the household’s financial situation were slightly more pessimistic: 22% of the population expected improvement in the household’s financial situation in the coming 12 months (in January, 23%), and as in the previous month, deterioration was expected by 15%. In February, in the opinion of the population, forecasting the household’s financial situation was harder than in January: the proportion of those stating that it was easy or rather easy dropped from 46 to 41%, the proportion of those stating that it was difficult or rather difficult – grew from 51 to 54%, the press release reads.

As regards the country’s economic situation, 21% of the population expected it to improve in the coming 12 months (in January, 22%), while the proportion of those expecting it to deteriorate decreased by 2 percentage points (from 37 to 35%).

In February, 28% of the population intended to spend more on such purchases as furniture or household appliances in the coming 12 months, compared to the last 12 months, 16% – less (in January, 27 and 19% respectively).

Consumer confidence indicator in urban and rural areas

In February, the consumer confidence indicator in urban and rural areas differed by 2 percentage points: in urban areas, it stood at minus 4, in rural areas – at minus 2. Compared to the previous month, consumer confidence indicator in urban areas remained unchanged, in rural areas – increased by 3 percentage points.

Compared to January, the urban population provided slightly more pessimistic expectations for the changes in the household’s financial situation and slightly more optimistic expectations for the changes in the country’s economic situation. The proportion of those intending to reduce expenses on larger purchases decreased.

In February, compared to January, the rural population provided better assessment of the changes in the household’s financial situation in the last 12 months and intended to spend more on larger purchases: the proportion of those indicating improvement in the household’s financial situation grew from 14 to 18%, the proportion of those intending to spend more on such purchases as furniture or household appliances increased from 26 to 30%.

Consumer confidence indicator, against the same period of the previous year

Over the year (February 2023, against February 2022), the consumer confidence indicator increased by 1 percentage point. Compared to the previous year, the population had slightly more optimistic expectations for the changes in the household’s financial situation and the country’s economic situation, yet they were more pessimistic about the changes in the household’s financial situation over the last 12 months, and intended to spend less on such purchases as furniture, household appliances, etc.

Over a year, the proportion of the population expecting improvement in the country’s economic situation in the coming 12 months grew from 17 to 21%, deterioration – decreased by 12 percentage points (from 47 to 35%).

Over a year, the proportion of the population expecting improvement in the household’s financial situation in the coming 12 months remained unchanged (22%), while 15% of the population expected deterioration (a year ago, 17%).

Compared to the previous year, the proportion of the population indicating improvement in the household’s financial situation over the last 12 months dropped from 20 to 18%, while deterioration – increased by 9 percentage points (from 28 to 37%).

In February 2023, compared to the same period of the previous year, the proportion of the population intending to spend more on such purchases as furniture or household appliances in the coming 12 months decreased from 31 to 28%.

Assessment of changes in the last 12 months and the current situation

In February, the population provided the same assessment of the changes in the country’s economic situation over the last 12 months as in January: improvement was indicated by 9, deterioration – 69%.

Assessment of the current household’s financial situation was slightly worse than in January. In February, 52% of the population stated that they made at least some savings, 8% – that they were living on savings or borrowings (in January, 54 and 7% respectively).

48% of the population expected to make at least some savings in the coming 12 months, 17% – did not expect to make any savings (in January, 50 and 16% respectively).

In February, compared to the previous month, the population’s expectations for the changes in the number of the unemployed in the coming 12 months were slightly more pessimistic: the proportion of those expecting an increase in the number of the unemployed in the coming 12 months increased from 44 to 46%. Meanwhile, 11% of those polled expected the number of the unemployed to decrease (in January, 14%).

Data were collected on 1–17 February by interviewing 1,286 individuals randomly sampled from the Population Register of the Republic of Lithuania. The survey is partially funded by the EU.

 

AB ORLEN LIETUVA POSTS PROFIT FOR Q4 2022

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – Total revenues of Public Company Orlen Lietuva for the last quarter of 2022 were by 28% higher vs the same period of 2021 (USD 1.688 billion in Q4 2021 compared to USD 2.158 billion for Q4 2022), the company said in a statement.

Such revenue growth was largely driven by the high increase of global oil and petroleum product prices in October-December last year, increasing product demand and resulting growth of sales as well as high capacity utilisation.

Exceptional performance results of Q4 2022 have also become visible in other performance indicators of Orlen Lietuva Group. The profit posted by the Company during the last three months of 2022 amounted to USD 73.2 million, with such result being significantly higher in comparison to USD 46.8 million net profit in Q4 2021. Favourable macro situation and increase in diesel sales had an effect on 3.8 times growth of EBITDA LIFO in comparison to the same period of 2021. This financial indicator amounted to USD 46.3 million in Q4 2021, demonstrating strong growth in the last quarter of 2022 reaching USD 177 million.

After the turnaround of the process facilities last year in summer, the only crude oil refinery in the Baltic States now operates nearly at its maximum capacity with capacity utilization in Q4 2022 reaching 96 percent. Progress, on the Baltic market in particular, is also noted in terms of the inland sales growth. In comparison to October-December 2021, the volume of sales to Lithuania in Q4 2022 boosted by 13 percent, volume of products sold in Latvia increased by 27 percent, with 17 percent growth of sales to Estonian market.

"The war in Ukraine which began in February 2022 has an obvious impact on the entire refining industry. And AB Orlen Lietuva with the only crude oil refinery in the Baltic States is no exception. We had to make a shift, we shun imports of Russian crude without waiting for sanctions to enter into force, and made changes in the logistics chain of the product shipments to Ukraine,” said Michal Rudnicki, general director of AB Orlen Lietuva. "Professional excellence and commitment of the entire team produce rewarding results in the fourth quarter of last year. Having demonstrated its inner strength and care about the true values, AB Orlen Lietuva managed to make its business profitable in a challenging year, thus making a considerable input in the national economy and contributing to its competitiveness as well as energy security”.

Since 2006, PKN Orlen has spent nearly 4 billion US dollars on the acquisition and further investments in the refinery of Mažeikiai. Orlen Lietuva has recently become a member of an integrated petrochemical chain of PKN Orlen. 

PKN Orlen is a modern player on the fuel and power market, and the largest company in Central and Eastern Europe listed in the prestigious Fortune Global 500.

 

GRIGEO COMPANY GROUP EARNED EUR 203MN SALES TURNOVER IN 2022

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – Over 12 months of 2022, Grigeo AB company group, consisting of Grigeo AB, Grigeo Packaging UAB, Grigeo Baltwood UAB, Grigeo Klaipėda AB, Mena Pak AT, Grigeo Recycling UAB, Grigeo Recycling SIA and Grigeo investicijų valdymas UAB achieved the consolidated sales turnover of EUR 203.2 million. It is by EUR 40.0 million more than over respective period of 2021, the company said in a press release.

Over the reporting period, the group earned EUR 11.7 million profit before taxes, which is by EUR 2.0 million less than in the same period in 2021.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) of the group, if compared with 12 months of 2021, decreased by EUR 2.4 million and reached EUR 21.4 million.

Over the reporting period, Grigeo AB sales amounted to EUR 90.5 million, which is by EUR 22.9 million more than in the same period in 2021.

Over the reporting period, the company earned EUR 17.2 million profit before taxes, which is by EUR 14.3 million more than in the same period in 2021. Significant increase in company’s profit before tax is related to the dividends received from the subsidiaries.

The company’s EBITDA reached EUR 10.1 million and, if compared with the same period in 2021, increased by EUR 4.2 million.

 

INDEPENDENT MEMBERS OF KN’S AUDIT COMMITTEE AND REMUNERATION AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE ELECTED

 

Klaipėda, February 24 (ELTA) – By the decision of Supervisory Council of KN (AB Klaipėdos nafta), as of 22 of February 2023, until the end of term of office of Company’s acting Supervisory Council, Šarūnas Radavičius was elected as an independent member of the Audit Committee of the Company. He will be joining current members Robertas Vyšniauskas and Mantas Šukevičius, the company has announced.

The Audit Committee consists of three members, of which one is independent, and two are designated independent members of the Supervisory Council.

In addition, Supervisory Council decided, to elect Živilė Valeišienė as an independent member of Remuneration and Nomination Committee of the Company as of 22 February until the end of term of office of Company’s acting Supervisory Council. She will be joining current members Dovilė Kavaliauskienė and Robertas Vyšniauskas.

The Remuneration and Nomination Committee consists of three members, one of which is independent, and two are designated members of the Supervisory Council.

 

DAIRY LUKŠIŲ PIENINĖ WILL LAY OFF ALL 150 EMPLOYEES

 

Vilnius, February 24 (ELTA) – Dairy producer Lukšių pieninė, which is going into bankruptcy, has informed the Employment Service that it foresees laying off 150 employees. The company’s insolvency administrator, Gintaras Adomonis, told the news agency ELTA that the company hopes to continue operating and to rehire all of the workers.

Based on the Legal Entity Register the sole shareholder of Lukšių pieninė is Marijampolės pieno konservai.

Adomonis told ELTA that a decision was made for Lukšių pieninė to continue operating if creditors approve of the move. He said law requires to inform the Employment Service about group layoffs, but workers would be rehired.

The Employment Service was informed about group redundancy on 15 February.

In 2021, Lukšių pieninė earned EUR 19.4 million income and posted EUR 1.8 million in losses.

Established in 1939, it is one of the oldest dairy companies in Lithuania. Data of the State Social Insurance Fund Board (Sodra) indicates that as of 22 February the company had 150 employees.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Monday, February 27

 

SEIMAS

 

8:00

To hold an internal meeting.

9:30

To hold a meeting of the secretariat.

11:00

To hold an internal meeting.

12:00

To meet with representatives of the National Coalition of Nongovernmental Organisations (Seimas).

 

GOVERNMENT

 

8:30

To hold an internal meeting.

10:00

To hold an internal meeting.

 

MINISTRIES

 

Minister of the Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė:

15:30

To meet with representatives of the public organisation Northtown Vilnius.

Minister of Energy Dainius Kreivys:

To visit Stockholm, Sweden, to attend a meeting of the EU Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council.

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis:

To pay a visit to Stockholm, Sweden.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

FREEDOM IS GUARANTEED BY NOT BEING ALONE – ESTONIAN PM, AT MEETING WITH NATO SECRETARY GENERAL AND EC PRESIDENT

 

Tallinn, February 24 (ELTA) – NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen are visiting Estonia at the invitation of Prime Minister Kaja Kallas to celebrate Estonia’s Independence Day, said the Office of the Government.

According to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, it feels good to be among friends on Estonia’s 105th anniversary. "Estonia’s most important achievement is freedom. The people of Estonia have a steadfast will to defend their country. Our defence spending is also significant, at around 3% of GDP this year. The European Union and NATO are also cornerstones of Estonia’s freedom and security. The guiding principle ‘Never alone again’ has been at the heart of Estonia’s foreign and security policy all these years since the restoration of independence,” said the prime minister.

24 February marks one year since the beginning of Russia's full-scale war against Ukraine. "The freedom struggle of Ukrainians is also a confirmation that freedom is courage and that you are not alone,” Kallas said.

Prime Minister Kallas congratulated Commission President von der Leyen and NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg for their leading role in preserving the unity of the European Union and NATO and supporting Ukraine. "Grey areas in European security must remain a thing of the past, because they create instability and lead to war. Ukraine’s place is in the European Union and after the end of the war also in NATO,” Kallas emphasised.

Prime Minister Kallas also pointed out at the meeting that Russia is attacking Ukraine, but their target is the entire free world. "Freedom will triumph over evil, sooner or later. However, history has shown that risks must be taken to defeat evil. There must be no room for fear in support of Ukraine. If we are afraid of Russian threats, we will wake up in a much more dangerous world. Ukraine does not feel fear. We have no fear here. There should be no fear among those countries who have much better neighbours than Russia. Ukraine's victory is important to break the endless cycle of Russian wars of conquest,” Kallas said.

Prime Minister Kallas’ proposal for a joint and rapid procurement of one million artillery shells for Ukraine for the value of four billion euros was also discussed at the meeting. "The European Union was able to react quickly and innovatively together during the COVID crisis. It is time to show the same resourcefulness and speed in sending ammunition to Ukraine,” Kallas explained.

The prime minister also noted that, in addition to supporting Ukraine, it is important that the European defence industry is able to produce in a quantity that corresponds to the changed security situation.

 

EU TO JOINTLY PROCURE AMMUNITION FOR UKRAINE – URSULA VON DER LEYEN

 

Tallinn, February 24 (ELTA) – The European Union will start jointly procuring "urgent military supplies” for Ukraine including ammunition, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said during a visit to Tallinn on Friday, reports public broadcaster ERR.

Speaking at a press conference, she said the EU will continue to support Ukraine's economic and military resilience.

"We aim to train 30,000 Ukrainian soldiers in the European Union. Our member states are delivering military equipment and we will turn to joint procurement to deliver urgent military supplies for Ukraine, such as 155 millimetre ammunition,” von der Leyen said, adding Europe must ramp up its defence industry to help both Ukraine and replenish Europe’s stocks.

Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has previously suggested the EU jointly procure weapons for Ukraine, in a similar way it procured coronavirus vaccines for member states.

 

OUR DUTY IS TO PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE AS STRONG AS STEEL – LATVIAN PARLT SPEAKER

 

Riga, February 24 (ELTA) – On 24 February, the Saeima, the Parliament of Latvia, held an extraordinary sitting marking one year since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, reports the Saeima press service.

"Today, a new iron curtain has descended between Russia and the free world, but the entire world knows that the purest iron curtain can be found in Ukraine. It is made of blooded and battle tested iron. It is forged from steel hardened in battles. It is a steel barrier that protects the world from a predatory, wild beast. Our duty, our responsibility, is to provide support for Ukraine as strong as steel. In Latvia and internationally. In words and in deeds. Morally and practically," said Speaker of the Saeima Edvards Smiltēns.

The speaker of the Saeima noted that Russia deliberately tries to repeat history, and Russia’s imperialism is still alive – equally devastating, cruel and bloody. "Unfortunately, Europe has spent recent decades stubbornly clinging to wishful thinking that security in Europe cannot be achieved without Russia. Today, Riga, Tallinn, Vilnius, Warsaw strongly and unequivocally emphasise that Ukraine’s victory is the only way to restore security on the European continent. Security in Europe cannot be achieved without Ukraine!” said Smiltēns.

The speaker of the Saeima noted that the Latvian Parliament had done a lot to support Ukraine and its people, as well as to strengthen our security, often demonstrating the courage and leadership needed to reinforce the support for Ukraine at the European level. "This has been possible because it accurately reflects the convictions and values of our people. Our people’s strong stance on the side of justice and freedom. We can safely and confidently say that Latvia’s political, military, financial, humanitarian and human support will continue. No matter how much it costs and no matter how long it takes,” stressed Smiltēns.

"Ukraine’s security is our security, Ukraine’s freedom is our freedom, and Ukraine’s victory is our victory. Glory to Ukraine! May Latvia live forever!” concluded the speaker of the Saeima.

Members of the Saeima were also addressed remotely by Speaker of the Parliament of Ukraine (Verkhovna Rada) Ruslan Stefanchuk, expressing his gratitude for the support from Latvia and its people, noting that Ukraine is currently facing not only great sorrow, but also the support from real friends. "We are holding on, we are not giving up, we will win, because we are on the right side of the history,” underlined the Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament.

Stefanchuk particularly noted the decisions taken by the Latvian state in support of Ukraine, as well as the military, humanitarian assistance and rehabilitation facilities for Ukrainian soldiers in Latvia. We highly appreciate your strong support for Ukraine’s membership of the European Union and NATO and the work you are doing to convince the European partners that Ukraine must join the European Union as soon as possible. Granting Ukraine the status of a candidate country of the European Union is our common victory, emphasised the speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament.

The extraordinary sitting also featured addresses by President of Latvia Egils Levits and Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš.

 

63.9 % OF LATVIAN POPULATION WERE EMPLOYED IN 2022

 

Riga, February 24 (ELTA) – Results of the Labour Force Survey (LFS) conducted by the Central Statistical Bureau of Latvia show that in Latvia 886.2 thousand people or 63.9 % of the population aged 15–74 were employed in 2022.

Compared to 2021, last year employment rate grew by 1.4 percentage points and number of employed persons by 22.2 thousand.

The most notable upturn in the number of employed persons was observed among those engaged in wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles, information and communication, as well as manufacturing.

In Q4 2022, 890.6 thousand people aged 15–74 were employed in Latvia, which is 8.9 thousand fewer than in Q3 2022. Employment rate constituted 64.0 %, i.e., it was 0.6 percentage points lower than in Q3 2022.

The number of employed persons in the age group 75–89 accounted for 5.0 thousand in 2022 (5.3 thousand in Q4 2022). The statistics in this news release covers people aged 15–74 (incl.).

In Q4 2022 employment rate among men was 4.9 percentage points higher than among women (66.6 % and 61.7 %, respectively).

Irrespective of the fact that over the past decade Latvian employment rate has been higher than the EU average (in Q3 2022 – 61.2 %), in Q4 2022 it was the lowest among the Baltic countries (69.6 % in Estonia and 65.3 % in Lithuania).

Youth employment rate gone up by 2.7 percentage points

In 2022 employment rate among young people (aged 15–24) constituted 30.6 %, i.e., it was 2.7 percentage points higher than in 2021. Employed young people accounted for 54.6 thousand (48.0 thousand in 2021). In Q4 2022, compared to Q3 2022, the number of employed youngsters fell by 4.2 thousand or 7.2 % and constituted 53.8 thousand (58.0 thousand in Q3 2022). Youth employment rate, in turn, dropped by 2.6 percentage points (down to 29.6 %).

In the main job, 0.4 hours per week more were worked

Last year, in the main job employed persons worked on average 38.4 hours per week, which is 0.4 hours more than in 2021. In Q4 2022, in turn, in the main job on average 38.1 hours per week were worked, which is 0.7 hours fewer than in Q3 2022.

In 2022, 66.4 thousand people or 7.5 % worked part-time, which is 8.4 thousand people or 1.2 percentage points fewer than in 2021. Women constituted majority of those working part-time (69.1 %, compared to 30.9 % of men). In Q4 2022, each thirteenth employed person (67.7 thousand or 7.6 %) worked part-time, which is 3.3 thousand or 0.4 percentage points more than in Q3 2022 (64.4 thousand or 7.2 %).

Second job more commonly held by women

In 2022, 36.7 thousand employed persons (4.1 %) held a second job, i.e., had another job in addition to their main job or did odd jobs and earned extra income. The number has gone up by 2.0 thousand people or 5.4 per cent compared to 2021. Women had a second job more often than man (21.2 thousand and 15.5 thousand, respectively). Those having a second job the most often worked 11–20 hours per week (34.8 %) and 1–10 hours per week (34.6 %). In Q4 2022, 37.4 thousand employed persons (4.2 %) held a second job, which is 2.9 thousand or 7.2 % fewer than in Q3 2022 (40.3 thousand or 4.5 %).

11.3 % of employees worked remotely in Q4 2022

In Q4 2022, 11.3 % of employees (87.7 thousand) worked remotely. The number is 56.0 thousand people or 7.5 percentage points fewer than a year ago (143.7 thousand or 18.8 %) and 9.0 thousand people or 1.2 percentage points more than in the previous quarter (78.7 thousand or 10.1 %). Women accounted for 60.1 % and men for 39.9 % of the employees working remotely.

In terms of age, the largest share of the persons working remotely (35.0 %) was formed by people aged 15–34 (males 46.1 %, females 27.7 %). Followed by employees aged 35–44 (34.2 %), those aged 45–54 (18.6 %), and those aged 55–74 (12.2 %).

The largest share of remote workers (15.8 %) among all employees of the respective age group was observed among people aged 35–44 while smallest (5.4 %) among those aged 55–74.

Breakdown of the Q4 2022 data by economic activity shows that 53.6 % of the people engaged in information and communication sector worked remotely, followed by 44.8 % in financial and insurance activities, 23.0 % in public administration and defence, compulsory social security, and slightly less – 19.7 % – in scientific, administrative and real estate sectors (NACE Sections L–N). The smallest share (4.5 %) of remote workers was recorded in human health and social work activities as well as other economic activities (Q–U).

In terms of occupations, 28.2 % of professionals worked remotely, followed by 22.8 % of managers, 16.8 % of technicians and associate professionals, and 13.0 % of clerical support workers.

In 2022 LFS covered 18.5 thousand households in which 31.9 thousand people aged 15–89 were interviewed, including 16.5 thousand households with 27.9 thousand people aged 15–74. In Q4 2022 LFS covered 4.8 thousand households in which 8.3 thousand people aged 15–89 were interviewed, including 4.3 thousand households with 7.2 thousand people aged 15–74.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230227ej2r000dx


Lithuanian formin regrets Rosatom not included in EU’s latest package of Russia sanctions
BNS/TBT Staff
381 字
2023 年 2 月 27 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis has described the European Union’s latest sanctions against Russia as a yet another “small and delayed step” and has expressed regret that the new package does not include Russia's state-owned energy corporation Rosatom.

He also says that he sometimes notices the desire of some partners to negotiate exemptions instead of introducing new restrictions.

“It’s a yet another small and delayed step, but nonetheless a step in the right direction. Lithuania’s diplomats strongly contributed to the preparation of specific sanction proposals and packages of evidence,” Landsbergis said in comments sent to BNS.

“It is regrettable, however, that Rosatom has not been sanctioned at this stage and our partners often negotiate on exemptions or transitional periods instead of supplementing existing sanctions or introducing new ones,” the Lithuanian top diplomat added.

The European Union on Saturday adopted its new sanctions over Russia’s war in Ukraine, targeting 121 individuals and entities, including Iranian drone manufacturers.

As part of the sanction package, an export ban on industrial goods to Russia was expanded to include dual-use items like electronics, specialized vehicles, machine parts, spare parts for trucks and jet engines, antennae, cranes, drones, rare earth materials, electronic circuits and thermal cameras.

Trade in those goods, which battlefield evidence suggests Moscow is using for its war, amount to more than 11 billion euros, according to EU officials.

The latest EU sanctions target an additional 96 Russian entities – meaning businesses or state agencies – including another three Russian banks, according to an EU statement.

Sanctions on Russia's propaganda outlets were stepped up, with moves to suspend the broadcasting licenses of the Arabic outlets of state-controlled media groups RT and Sputnik, which are already banned in Europe.

The Lithuanian Foreign Ministry said on Saturday that some of Lithuania’s proposals had been taken into account when negotiating the tenth package of sanctions.

Brussels’ officials initially hoped to announce the new restrictions to mark the first anniversary of the war unleashed by Russia in Ukraine, but negotiations got stalled over Poland's objections, as Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki described the latest proposed EU sanctions against Russia as "too soft, too weak".

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230227ej2r0005u


Russia’s war in Ukraine has distorted global trade routes
bne Magazine, 2023 年 3 月 1 日, 2840 字, (英文)
“The Russian aggression in Ukraine caused a significant increase in the transported volumes and a change in the composition of traded categories”

FID warns the risk of breach of sanctions in Latvia is very high
LETA
341 字
2023 年 3 月 2 日 15:08 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
The risk of anti-Russian sanctions being breached in Latvia is very high, said the head of Strategic Analysis Department of the Office for Prevention of Laundering of Proceeds Derived from Criminal Activity (FID) Paulis Iļjenkovs at a seminar organised to discuss the risks of circumvention of sanctions on Thursday, the 2nd of March.

This can be explained with both Latvia’s geographical location and the Russia’s historical role in Latvia’s economy. For example, in 2021 Russia was in the Top 5 countries with which Latvia performed various financial transactions. Even before 2021 Russia was in 4th to 5th place in terms of export and import operations, Iļjenkovs reminded.

«The risks of sanctions being breached are too high for Latvia to ignore. This is why we recommend businesses to perform risk analysis. Otherwise they may lose access to their bank account and enter criminal liability,» said Iļjenkovs.

He explained that FID has informative materials to help identify sanction circumvention risks.

For example, one such indicator is involvement in various sectors under sanctions as a mediator,

as well as sudden requests from partners to wire payments to accounts in other countries or jurisdictions that are not under sanctions.

Attempts to change beneficial owners or the ownership structure without any economic or legal justifications may also indicate risks of sanction circumvention.

Iļjenkovs added that

last year FID received reports of 281 suspicious deals possibly involving circumvention of European sanctions.

For comparison: there were 12 such reports in 2021 and 13 in 2020.

Most often FID receives reports of suspicious deals from credit institutions. The number of reports received from accountants is beginning to go up as well. This year FID expects to receive reports about sanction circumvention from auditors as well.

Also read: BNN ANALYSES | Lithuania passes «gas exam», even harsh critics praise its LNG terminal

The post FID warns the risk of breach of sanctions in Latvia is very high appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020230302ej320008d


LATVIA: RISK OF BREACH OF SANCTIONS VERY HIGH
300 字
2023 年 3 月 3 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2023. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
The risk of anti-Russian sanctions being breached in Latvia is very high, the head of Strategic Analysis Department of the Office for Prevention of Laundering of Proceeds Derived from Criminal Activity (FID) Paulis Iljenkovs said at a seminar organised to discuss the risks of circumvention of sanctions on March 2.

This can be explained with both Latvia's geographical location and the Russia's historical role in Latvia's economy. For example, in 2021 Russia was in the top-5 countries with which Latvia performed various financial transactions. Even before 2021 Russia was in 4th to 5th place in terms of export and import operations, Iljenkovs reminded.

"The risks of sanctions being breached are too high for Latvia to ignore. This is why we recommend businesses to perform risk analysis. Otherwise they may lose access to their bank account and enter criminal liability," said Iljenkovs.

He explained that FID had informative materials to help identify sanction circumvention risks.

For example, one such indicator is involvement in various sectors under sanctions as a mediator, as well as sudden requests from partners to wire payments to accounts in other countries or jurisdictions that are not under sanctions.

Attempts to change beneficial owners or the ownership structure without any economic or legal justifications may also indicate risks of sanction circumvention.

Iljenkovs added that last year FID received reports of 281 suspicious deals possibly involving circumvention of European sanctions.

For comparison: there were 12 such reports in 2021 and 13 in 2020.

Most often FID receives reports of suspicious deals from credit institutions. The number of reports received from accountants is beginning to go up as well. This year FID expects to receive reports about sanction circumvention from auditors as well. (BNN/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020230303ej3300031


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10844
Karolis Broga
5231 字
2023 年 3 月 8 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10844 (95250) WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 8

 

SEIMAS MAJORITY NOT WIDE ENOUGH TO ADOPT ISTANBUL CONVENTION – PARLT SPEAKER

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen says parliamentary debate on adopting the Istanbul convention is unlikely in the spring session due to the lack of major support from MPs.

"The reality is that we do not have a majority wide enough to ratify the Istanbul Convention at the Seimas. (&) I would not like it very much to see the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania becoming one of the few parliaments, really few, which failed to ratify the Istanbul Convention,” Čmilytė-Nielsen told the LRT radio Wednesday.

The head of parliament noted that she had been in favour of adopting the treaty since the very start of her political career.

"It is an important commitment on the part of the state to fight violence against women and girls and defend human rights. But we must also look at the composition of the Seimas and whether we have the support we need for such an important issue,” the politician spoke.

The parliament should increase its efforts to rally support for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, Čmilytė-Nielsen highlighted.

The Istanbul Convention is short for the Council of Europe’s Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. It is an international legal instrument designed to protect women’s right to be free from violence. The treaty is known as after the city in which it opened for signature on 11 May 2011.

 

BALTIC FORMINS ISSUE JOINT STATEMENT OVER GEORGIAN ‘FOREIGN AGENTS’ LAW

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – The foreign ministers of the Baltic States have issued a joint statement voicing their concern over Georgia’s plans to adopt a law on "foreign agents", the Lithuanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.

The Baltic ministers claim that Tbilisi must uphold democratic values and the rule of law if it seeks EU and NATO memberships.

"The first reading of the law on foreign agents passed by the Georgian Parliament raises serious questions about the prospects of democracy in Georgia. We call on the Parliament of Georgia to responsibly assess the real interests of the country and refrain from decisions that may undermine aspirations of Georgia’s people to live in a democratic country which is advancing towards the EU and NATO. We call on the Government of Georgia to respect the right of people to a peaceful protest,” the joint statement by Lithuanian Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis, Estonian Minister Urmas Reinsalu and Latvian Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs reads.

On 7 March evening, thousands of people have taken to the streets in Georgia to protest against a controversial planned law aimed at curbing the influence of "foreign agents,” which many in the country in the Caucasus fear could serve to silence critics, the German Press Agency (dpa) reported.

A majority of lawmakers in the Georgian parliament approved the draft law dubbed "On Transparency of Foreign Influence” in a first reading on Tuesday. Officially, the legislation seeks to for organizations to disclose financial transactions from abroad, the dpa noted.

 

GOVT PROPOSES EXTENDING STATE OF EMERGENCY AT BORDER WITH BELARUS AND RUSSIA UNTIL MAY

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – On Wednesday, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the Interior Ministry’s proposal to extend the state of emergency at the border.

The state of emergency is currently in effect until 16 March but should be extended until 2 May inclusive. It would apply only at the border with Belarus and Russia’s Kaliningrad Oblast as well as at border control posts outside of the border area.

If parliament approves the proposal, tighter state border protection measures will continue to apply and checks will be carried out in the border area. Stricter visa regulations for Russian and Belarusian citizens would also be in effect.

In addition, in a state of emergency the use of the state reserve is facilitated to ensure the required funding for relevant agencies and eliminate potential threats to national security.

The final decision will be made by the Seimas on Friday, 10 March, when its spring session begins.

The state of emergency was initially introduced in the entire territory of Lithuania on 24 February 2022, when Russia invaded Ukraine. Later, the state of emergency was limited only to the border with Belarus and Russia.

 

SOCDEM LEADER CALLS FOR HELPING UKRAINIAN WOMEN AND GIRLS

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – On March 8, International Women’s Day, the leader of the Lithuanian Social Democratic Party is calling on Lithuanians to support Ukrainian women and girls by donating.

The war has obviously shown that gender does not matter in the defence of one’s homeland, Vilija Blinkevičiūtė says.

Ukrainian First Lady Olena Zelenska has said that around 37 thousand women are serving in the Ukrainian army, 13 thousand of them fighting directly on the battlefield. Other women are helping with the support for the army and other necessary assistance for institutions and communities.

"Unfortunately, women are becoming targets of the gravest war crimes as sexual violence is used as a weapon in the war. Women and girls are being raped and forced to watch violence against their own children and other family members. There is a catastrophic shortage of aid, ranging from medical supplies to psychological support and rehabilitation,” Blinkevičiūtė said.

International organisations admit that the actual scale of crimes committed against women in Ukraine is unknown at present. Thousands of reports, however, indicate that numbers are shocking.

The SocDem leader encourages residents to donate to various initiatives aimed at helping Ukraine. For example, Lygiai (Equally) association is collecting donations intended precisely for women.

"I know that a mobile gynaecology clinic was handed over to the Ukrainians last year to help women and girls living in remote areas. The mobile clinic was sent to Ukraine by Lithuanians people who donated money to the women’s aid organisation Lygiai. Our support is vitally important for these women,” Blinkevičiūtė noted.

 

STATE BUDGET DEFICIT TO SHRINK, FINANCE MINISTER SAYS

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – Finance Minister Gintarė Skaistė says that the state budget deficit projected for both this year and 2022 should shrink.

"Now we see, (&) that the budget deficit of last year would actually fall below 2 percent,” the minister told ELTA in an interview on Wednesday.

In May 2022 the Seimas and set the deficit at 4.9% of gross domestic product (GDP) when revising the state budget. However, the Ministry of Finance announced this year that in 2022 the state budget actually received EUR 15.9 billion in 2022 or 9.5% more than planned.

The budget deficit is certainly to look better than projected in the mid-2022 corrections, Skaistė noted, adding that specific figures will be available later.

The minister noted that certain budgetary expenditures would not be needed anymore this year too.

With electricity and gas prices lower than forecast, budget allocations for subsidising energy costs will decrease, Skaistė said.

Certain assumptions about tax deferrals have not proved to be the case either as enterprises have not been very active in using this opportunity, according to the minister.

The state budget for 2023 provides for EUR 530 million to subsidise electricity and gas bills for residents. The projected state budget deficit stands at 4.9% deficit of GDP this year.

 

ECONMIN SIGNS AGREEMENT ON COOPERATION IN LIFE SCIENCES DURING HER VISIT TO ITALY

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – Minister of the Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė is currently visiting Italy with a Lithuanian business delegation. The aim of the business mission, which consists of more than twenty business representatives, is to strengthen cooperation in the field of life sciences, announced the Ministry of the Economy and Innovation.

An agreement was signed on 7 March in Milan between the Life Sciences Cluster of the Region of Lombardy and the association LithuaniaBIO. This will strengthen the partnership to attract investment, promote technological innovation and encourage entrepreneurial initiatives.

"The agreement will allow us to develop life science projects. We want to double the GDP generated by life sciences from 2.5% to 5% in the next few years. We have a strong ecosystem in this sector - clusters are being established in Lithuania, about 60 start-ups have been established, and a number of globally recognised companies are operating in Lithuania. We certainly have a lot to offer to our partners in Italy and a lot to be proud of,” said Minister Armonaitė.

The Lithuanian Biotechnology Association (now LithuaniaBIO), founded in 2003, brings together 36 legal entities and 9 scientific institutions, and its main objectives are to promote biotechnology research, trade and product development.

"This cooperation will help Lithuanian and Lombard companies active in life sciences to find new opportunities for collaboration, product development, commercialisation and financing. The Lithuanian biotechnology sector has exceptional competences, such as gene editing or gene therapy technologies, metabolic engineering and others, which could be of interest to Lombard companies. Our association could be an excellent platform for Italian companies looking for new business or scientific opportunities in our country. We aim to establish relationships that could turn into reliable business models in the future,” says Tomas Andrejauskas, president of LithuaniaBIO Association.

Lithuania has great potential for life sciences research and production, accounting for around 2.5% of GDP and well above the EU average. The strategic goal is to achieve a life sciences share of 5% of GDP by 2030.

The Lithuanian business delegation, led by the Minister Armonaitė and comprising around two dozen representatives of Lithuanian companies, associations and research centres, is meeting existing and potential partners in Italy.

Last year, the bilateral trade turnover between Lithuania and Italy amounted to EUR 2.8 billion, and direct Italian investments in Lithuania amounted to around EUR 47 million.

 

ATTEMPTS ARE MADE DAILY TO CIRCUMVENT SANCTIONS AND TRANSPORT SANCTIONED GOODS VIA LITHUANIA – LTG REPRESENTATIVE

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – Edvinas Kerza, business resilience director at Lithuanian Railways Group (LTG), has revealed that on Wednesday night authorities overseeing sanction implementation stopped 32 freight wagons with sanctioned goods from entering Lithuania. According to him, attempts are also made to circumvent sanctions via Latvia, whereas some companies disregard LTG warnings to stop sanction circumvention.

"This night alone it was attempted to transport 25 Lukoil wagons to Kaliningrad Oblast claiming that this was transit freight (&) when in fact it was meant for export. We turned them around,” Kerza told reporters Wednesday.

Russian company Lukoil is engaged in exploration, production, refining and distribution of oil.

"Seven Lukoil wagons this night tried to reach Marijampolė. We turned them around, sent them away. Three more have been stopped at the border,” said Kerza.

LTG representative added that two trains with sanctioned goods attempted to enter Lithuania from Latvia, too.

He also said that prosecutors were addressed five times with proof how companies were forging documents to evade sanctions. According to him, attempts to transport sanctioned goods are made daily in various ways, including by smuggling.

Moreover, LTG business resilience director noted that some companies continue their efforts to violate restrictions despite warnings. Therefore, now LTG will issue a warning once and after the second violation will stop cooperating with such companies.

According to Kerza, goods that are sought to be transported despite sanctions include petroleum products, crushed stone, fertilisers, grain, timber, granules etc.

LTG representative has revealed that the company intends to change its strategy and weekly publish information about enterprises that attempt to circumvent sanctions, including what cargo is seized, their amounts, destinations etc. "This is needed so that the public would realise what LTG has to deal with every day,” said Kerza.

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis stated that freight is being checked more thoroughly as of 1 March. He does not rule out that Lithuanian companies may start complaining about this but LTG would apply zero tolerance to sanction circumvention. Since March, customers of LTG Cargo are required to provide more details about freight and its origin.

Discussions about the issue of circumvention of sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus emerged after journalistic centre Siena on 20 February reported about Belarusian fertilisers imported to Lithuania and mechanisms how this is done. It was reported that carbamide from Belarusian fertiliser producer Grodno Azot was shipped to the Bulk Cargo Terminal (BKT) in Klaipėda by rail in violation of sanctions. BKT is partially owned by Belarusian state company Belaruskalij. The EU has imposed sanctions on both Belaruskalij and Grodno Azot.

 

LITHUANIA PRESENTS INITIATIVE FOR SHORTEST TRANSPORT CORRIDOR BETWEEN UKRAINE AND BALTIC PORTS

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – Lithuania and Ukraine intend to develop new transport corridors from Klaipėda to Odesa and other Ukrainian ports, improve the rail connections between the countries and increase the volume of freight transport, reports the Ministry of Transport and Communications.

On 2–4 March, in Lviv, Ukraine, during a meeting between the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine and a delegation led by the Committee on Economics of the Seimas of Lithuania, there was also a discussion on joint actions to include an additional link to the Baltic–Adriatic Corridor across the European Union (EU)–Ukrainian border towards Dorohusk in the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T).

"We need to connect the Baltic and Black Seas via transport corridors with sufficient capacity, to transform the current rail connections from Klaipėda Seaport to Odesa and other Ukrainian ports into a European gauge TEN-T corridor. Such a corridor, bypassing Belarus and Russia, is important not only for Lithuania, but also for other Baltic States in order to effectively employ their seaports and reach Southern Europe,” says Loreta Maskaliovienė, deputy minister of transport and communications, who visited Lviv with the delegation.

Talking about specific steps of Lithuania and Ukraine, the Deputy Minister emphasised the identification of projects important for the implementation of this corridor and cooperation with the EU institutions. One of the most important issues at the moment is the integration of an additional connection to the transport corridor into the TEN-T Network, which would increase the overall permeability of the Ukrainian–EU border towards the Baltic Sea ports.

In order to improve the connections between Lithuania and Ukraine, the countries will continue to seek to increase the volume of freight transport by rail between Klaipėda Seaport and Ukraine. Ukraine’s involvement in the Free Rail initiative of Lithuanian Railways was also discussed, in strengthening the independence and resilience of the region’s railway systems together with the Baltic States.

The development of the European gauge track to Klaipėda and the aim of improving international logistics connections across the Polish–Ukrainian border are provided for in the memorandum of the ministers of transport of Lithuania and Poland signed in Vilnius in September 2022. At the initiative of Lithuania, other Baltic States joined the development of this corridor in January this year.

 

AVIATION SHOWS HIGHEST RECOVERY IN LITHUANIAN TRANSPORT SECTOR IN 2022 – MINISTRY

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – Last year, according to preliminary data, cargo transportation in the Lithuanian transport sector decreased by about 17%, however, 48% more passengers were transported by various modes of transport, whereas, the number of passenger flow at airports has more than doubled, the Ministry of Transport and Communications said presenting its Transport Sector Overview 2022.

The effect of inflation and increasing demand for transportation services ensured the growth of services export (24%) and generated income (22%), the ministry noted in a press release.

Every year increasingly more Lithuanian transport services are exported to European Union (EU) countries. According to the preliminary data of the Bank of Lithuania, during the first three months of 2022, quarterly export of transport services to the EU accounted for 80% (5.43 billion euros), in the corresponding period of 2021 – 74% (4.04 billion euros). Last year, the export of transport services to the main markets grew rapidly: to Germany – 29%, to France – 28%, to the Netherlands – 54%, to Denmark – 25%, and to Austria – 50%.

In the context of the export markets of the country’s transport services, Russia and Belarus continue to occupy lower positions. Last year, the export of these services to Russia fell by 10.5%, to Belarus – by 63%; these countries occupied the fourth and seventeenth positions in the list of markets, respectively. For comparison, in 2014, Russia occupied the first position and Belarus the third position.

"The changing geopolitical situation due to Russia’s war against Ukraine is promoting an increasingly rapid reorientation of Lithuania’s transport sector from East to West. This is noticeable not only in the field of road transport, but also in railway and seaport operations. The Lithuanian Railways has started to regularly transport freight from Kaunas to Duisburg in Germany, a new freight route to Trieste in Italy and the intermodal Amber Train connecting the three Baltic States on the Šeštokai–Riga–Tallinn route have been tested. The Port of Klaipėda, which is connected by a direct connection to the eastern coast of the USA and the seaports of other countries, is considering new cargo and passenger shipping lines between Klaipėda and Stockholm,” said Marius Skuodis, Minister of Transport and Communications.

According to preliminary data, last year, compared to 2021, cargo transportation by all types of transport in Lithuania decreased by 17% (145 mln. t). This was greatly influenced by Russia’s war against Ukraine, restrictions on cargo flows due to sanctions, increased inflation and prices of energy resources. Last year, cargo transportations by road transport decreased by 7% (105 mln. t), by rail – by 39% (31 mln. t), by inland water transport – increased by 19 % (8.71 mln. t), through the country’s airports – increased by 4% (21.3 thousand t). Cargo loading in the Port of Klaipėda and Būtingė decreased by 17% (44.3 mln. t). It should be noted that the decrease in cargo in the railway sector and in the Port of Klaipėda was lower than forecast at the beginning of last year.

Last year, 36.1 million tonnes of cargo were loaded in the Port of Klaipėda, i.e., 21% less compared to 2021. Loading of ore (-92%) and fertilizers (-77%) decreased the most, however, the loading of containers has increased by 57%, with more than 1 million TEU (standard container units) loaded. In this regard, Klaipėda surpassed the ports of Saint-Petersburg and Riga, where the loading of containers decreased by more than half. In addition, the amount of gas imported through the liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal increased significantly, and as the construction of wind farms became more active, a significant number of wind turbines was transported through the port.

Last year, the Lithuanian aviation sector recovered the most, returning to pre-pandemic levels after the COVID-19 pandemic. Compared to 2021, last year, the passenger flow at Lithuanian airports more than doubled – from 2.5 million up to 5.35 million passengers (+116%). Direct flight destinations increased from 94 to 98, beating the pre-pandemic 2019 record of 92 destinations.

As the economy slows down and consumption declines due to the forecast economic recession and the war in Ukraine, cargo will decrease, transportation costs will increase, and the profit margin of carriers will decrease accordingly, the ministry predicts. Despite that, there is also a positive trend that inflation in the transport sector is shrinking faster than in the country as a whole – last December it amounted to 14%, and in January of this year it decreased to 12%. Accordingly, the total inflation of the country’s economy was 22% in December and 20% in January.

 

BALTIC RAILWAYS FULLY INTEGRATED INTO EUROPEAN SYSTEM BY 2030 – LITHUANIAN RAILWAYS

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian Railways group (LTG) has introduced the FREE Rail programme Wednesday as major part of efforts to integrate the Lithuanian railway system along with the systems of other Baltic countries into the European railway system by 2030.

FREE Rail will enable setting up a railway model adapted to the Baltic region that is based on European Union (EU) railway standards, best practices and harmonised with the specifics of the broad gauge (EU+), CEO of LTG Egidijus Lazauskas said.

The LTG will seek to implement the technological integration of the railway systems of the Baltic States and upgrade the information system into the western one over the coming seven years.

"The work has started quite a while ago, the programme has just been given a very clear name and shape,” Lazauskas told reporters.

"We, the Baltic States, together with Finland, Ukraine, find ourselves in a hybrid, transitional period. We have two systems and we are working to move fully to European standards,” he said.

A large part of Lithuania’s railway fleet and parts used in the country are still made in eastern countries, and the LTG is looking for alternatives in many countries, ranging from Turkey to Great Britain.

Following the refusal of cargo flows from the East, the LTG is looking for transport partners in "more predictable" countries operating in the same system, the CEO said.

"Naturally, the north-south flow, the same Turkey, Scandinavia, the movement in Western Europe... We see great potential, given that the EU itself is promoting the development of the railway sector,” Lazauskas said.

 

LITHUANIA’S PRICES FOR CONSUMER GOODS UP BY 21.5% IN FEBRUARY Y-O-Y – AGENCY

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – In February 2023, against January, prices for consumer goods and services increased by 0.7%, the State Data Agency reports on Wednesday.

The increase was mainly influenced by an increase in prices for electricity, solid fuel, vegetables, waste water collection services, water supply, spirits, pharmaceuticals, wine and wine products, as well as by a decrease in prices for heat energy, milk and milk products, cheese, eggs, footwear.

Over the month, prices for consumer goods increased by 0.6%, those for consumer services – 1%.

Prices for consumer goods and services regulated by State and municipal authorities grew by 2%, market prices – 0.5%.

Over a year, prices for consumer goods went up by 21.5%, those for consumer services – 11.8%. On a yearly basis, prices for consumer goods and services regulated by State and municipal authorities rose by 22.6%, market prices – 18.1%.

In February 2023, against January, prices for housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels increased by 2.2%. The largest price growth was recorded for water supply (18.2%), waste water collection services (18%), solid fuel (6.6%), electricity (6.4%), maintenance and repair of the dwelling (1.1%), while price drop – liquefied gas for cooking (12.7%), heat energy (5.4%).

Overall change in prices for alcoholic beverages and tobacco products (prices increased by 1.7%) was determined by price growth recorded for wine and wine products (3.4%), spirits (3%), and beer (0.8%).

Prices of health care goods and services grew by 1.4%. Services of sanatoriums went up in price by 3.6, pharmaceuticals – 1.8, dentist services – 1.2%.

Food products and non-alcoholic beverages went up in price by 0.3%. The largest price growth was recorded for preserved milk, sauces and condiments, other edible animal fats, fresh and chilled fish, tea, while price drop – sunflower oil, baby food, yoghurt, flour, kefir. Changes in prices were also observed for some fruit and vegetables: the largest price growth was recorded for sweet pepper, tomatoes, long-fruited cucumbers, head lettuce, while price drop – mangoes, grapefruit, lemons, oranges.

Due to discounts, prices for clothing and footwear decreased by 1.9%. Other articles of clothing and accessories went down in price by 8.2, footwear – 4.5, clothing – 0.4%.

In February 2023, annual (February 2023, against February 2022) inflation stood at 18.7%.

The annual inflation rate was mainly influenced by an increase in prices for solid fuel, electricity, bread and cereal products, milk and milk products, cheese and eggs, meat and meat products, catering services of restaurants, cafés and the like, cars, gas, maintenance and repair of personal transport equipment, sugar, jam, honey, chocolate and confectionery, vegetables, beer, oil and fats, pharmaceuticals, as well as by a decrease in prices for heat energy, the reception, recording and reproduction of sound and vision.

 

CORONAVIRUS IN LITHUANIA: 404 NEW CASES CONFIRMED

 

Vilnius, March 8 (ELTA) – A total of 404 people were diagnosed with COVID-19 disease in Lithuania on 7 March, the State Data Agency said.

Reinfections confirmed yesterday accounted for 141 of the new cases.

At present, 6,057 people are ill with the virus nationwide, 128 of them have been hospitalised. Six patients are undergoing treatment in intensive care units.

The total number of confirmed cases in the country has reached 1,307,448 since the outbreak of the infection.

According to the agency, the death toll due to COVID-19 in Lithuania stands at 9,596.

The average number of new daily cases in the last 7 days is 322. The incidence rate per 100,000 residents in the last 14 days is 155.5.

 

ESTONIAN INFLATION SLOWED TO 17.6% IN FEBRUARY

 

Tallinn, March 8 (ELTA) – Data from Statistics Estonia show that yearly consumer price inflation slowed in February to 17.6%, Estonia’s central bank said in a press release, noting that inflation peaked last August at 25% and has since come down.

Energy prices have fallen steadily in recent months and the market prices of gas and electricity are now back to where they were in September 2021. The price level in February was 0.6% higher than it was in the previous month as food and services put pressure on prices.

A contraction in the economy and a fall in demand mean that many companies are no longer able to raise their prices as fast as before. The outlook for inflation is uneven across sectors, the press release reads.

Data from the Estonian Institute of Economic Affairs show that the price expectations of companies have dropped sharply in manufacturing as demand for exports has weakened. Surveys show that only a few companies in retail and services expect prices to fall in the months ahead. Domestic inflation is being driven by rapid growth in wages and the low rate of unemployment.

Inflation is expected to continue falling steadily throughout the year, and it should be under 10% by summer. The Estonian inflation rate for 2023 as a whole should still be around 9% though, Estonia's central bank predicts.

 

ESTONIA’S BALTIC TOURS SUSPECTED OF FRAUD BY EUROPEAN PROSECUTORS – ERR

 

Tallinn, March 8 (ELTA) –The European Public Prosecutor’s Office suspects one of the oldest travel agencies in Estonia, Baltic Tours, and its owner, Andreas Metsamaa, of major fraud in connection with the provision of nearly EUR 5 million in accommodation services to the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex), Estonia’s public broadcaster ERR reports citing the daily Eesti Ekspress.

Baltic Tours allegedly secretly inflated bills by 10 percent, totalling around EUR 460,000, the daily Eesti Express reported.

Metsamaa was taken into custody in early February by Harju County Court [of first instance] Judge Eha Popova to prevent him from continuing to commit crimes, i.e. submitting new false reports to Frontex.

Indrek Leppik, his lawyer, thought such an arrest was unjustified given the nature of the suspicion.

Furthermore, the businessman who was imprisoned was subjected to a total communication ban, allowing him to communicate only with his lawyer.

 

LATVIAN PRESIDENT TO PAY OFFICIAL VISIT TO AZERBAIJAN

 

Riga, March 8 (ELTA) – On 8-9 March, President of Latvia Egils Levits will pay an official visit to Azerbaijan, where he will meet with the President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev and participate in the opening of the 10th Baku Global Forum, the Latvian presidency said.

Latvia has enjoyed good bilateral relations with Azerbaijan for almost 30 years. The visit, which is taking place at the invitation of the president of Azerbaijan and the organisers of the Baku Global Forum, will provide an opportunity to discuss the regional security challenges facing both countries, as well as opportunities for cooperation in the energy sector, given the common move towards renewable energy solutions.

Cooperation in international organisations and forums is important for both countries. Azerbaijan holds the presidency of the Non-Aligned Movement, which unites 120 countries and is an important group of countries in the United Nations. Latvia, for its part, from May to November this year will hold the presidency of the Council of Europe, which aims to strengthen European values in all 46 Member States, including Azerbaijan.

Azerbaijan’s good cooperation with NATO in the Partnership for Peace programme should also be noted. The Latvian Embassy is also the NATO contact point in Azerbaijan.

The visit will also include a discussion at the ADA University, meetings with businessmen, exhibitions by artists Krūmiņa and Deghati and the unveiling of a memorial plaque to Jāzeps Mediņš.

 

ELECTED COMMUNITY COUNCILS STRENGTHEN LOCAL DEMOCRACY, LATVIAN PRESIDENT SAYS

 

Riga, March 8 (ELTA) – During his regional working visit to Limbaži region today, President of Latvia Egils Levits took part in panel discussion ‘Community councils and public involvement in regional development’ with inhabitants of Limbaži region interested in community policies, the Latvian presidency said in a press release.

According to President Levits, elected community councils will facilitate local democratic processes. It will be a tier through which local communities will express their opinions about local priorities. 

"Democracy is a form of public self-governance. Governance through representatives elected by them,’” the president of Latvia stressed.

Towns with historical significance, which no longer have their local politicians as a result of municipal amalgamation, will benefit most from such councils, he added.

President of Latvia Levits insisted on the need to include elected community councils in the local government law when it was amended and repeatedly reminded that such regulations for local representation are extremely important for civic engagement.

Participants of the panel discussion were then invited to express their thoughts about elected community councils and various dimensions of them. Reluctance of some community groups to take part in local decisions was one of the problems raised. It could render councils inefficient.

Everyone agreed that the new regulation could foster intergenerational cooperation and thus multiply local resources and promote the culture of collective decision-making. According to the law, young people aged 16 and above would be eligible to take active role in elected community councils.

Discussion showed that elected local communities require synergies with regional government to be able to maximise the outcomes. This requires regions to carefully listen to and follow the suggestions of local councils. Dagnis Straubergs, Chair of the Limbaži Regional Council, indicated that the region is continuing work on regulations for elected community councils.

Latvian President Levits engaged in the panel discussion with Dagnis Straubergs, Chair of the Limbaži Regional Council, Andris Krogzems, businessman and Chair of the Viļķene Advisory Committee, Gunta Lāce, Headmistress of State Gymnasium, Director of Latvian Platform for Development Cooperation and active coordinator of Belarus and Ukraine support activities, as well as Aiga Briede, Head of the Legal Department at Limbaži Regional Council.

During the regional visit to Limbaži, President of Latvia Levits and Mrs Andra Levite visit food material producer Aloja-Starkelsen that manufactures potato starch-based and legume protein-based products. President Levits also took national defence class together with pupils of Limbaži Secondary School. Mrs Andra Levite spent time getting acquainted with traditional crafts and arts of Limbaži region in the lead up to the National Song and Dance Festival.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230308ej38001up


Sanctions proposed for attempts to destabilize Moldova - Romanian minister in Vilnius
BNS/TBT Staff
260 字
2023 年 3 月 13 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – As Moldova is rocked by anti-government protests, Romania is proposing creating of a separate sanction regime to help combat attempts to destabilize the country, Romanian Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu said in Vilnius on Monday after meeting with Lithuania's top diplomat Gabrielius Landsbergis.

"I highlighted the importance of creating a separate sanction regime to counter the destabilizing actions in the Republic of Moldova, as I proposed at the Foreign Affairs Council meeting on February 20," Aurescu said, adding that he's determined to support Moldova's resilience in every possible way.

Aurescu also hopes Romania will join the Schengen Area later this year.

In December, Bulgaria and Romania's applications to join the Schengen Area were blocked. Meanwhile, the EU backed Croatia's accession at the time.

Amid escalating tensions between Moscow and Chisinau, fugitive pro-Russian oligarch Ilhan Shor'spolitical party has pooled people in recent weeks again to protest against the pro-European government.

On Sunday, Moldovan police said they had arrested members of a Moscow-organized network ahead of an anti-government protest. They allegedly sought to destabilize the country.

Representatives of this network have organized several rallies and allegedly paid money for people to attend them.

A new protest took place in Chisinau on Sunday.

The White House has accused Russia of seeking to destabilize Romania and wanting to put a pro-Russian government in place.

Previously under Russian influence, Moldova is now governed by a firmly pro-European government.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230313ej3d000e0


French Open champ speaks out after having funding cut off by Latvia after Russia decision
Fraser Watson
482 字
2023 年 3 月 14 日 15:58 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2023
Former French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko is now battling to save her career after the decision from the Latvian government

Former French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko has vowed to keep fighting for her career after having her state funding cut by the Latvian government. The 25-year-old, who beat Coco Gauff en route to the quarter finals of the Australian Open this year, has broken her silence following the controversial announcement by her country's Olympic Committee.

Related articles

After holding talks with the Ministry of Education and Culture, the authority confirmed Latvian athletes would have their funding cut if they competed in events alongside Russian and Belarusian players. The sanction seems particularly harsh on the likes of Ostapenko, who have no control over who is permitted to enter tournaments.

Thus far, only Wimbledon have imposed an outright ban on Russian and Belarusian players, a decision that sparked a divided reaction last year. As a result, the tournament was stripped of its ranking points, while other event organisers have forced them to compete as neutrals.

Ostapenko isn't the only tennis player from her nation affected, with Daniela Vismane and Darja Semenistaja also set to be penalised. And the world No 10 has broken her silence on the saga that could profoundly affect her career.

JUST IN: Jack Draper sends message to Carlos Alcaraz ahead of clash after beating Andy Murray

"This is my sport," she told Women's Tennis Blog. "Of course, they contacted me, but to be honest, I can't really influence anything because I don't organise tournaments.

"The WTA organises these tournaments and I don't have the opportunity to play elsewhere. Basically, it means that I cannot play in any tournament. I have to quit tennis. I will not do that because I am a tennis player and this is my sport. Unfortunately, that is the reality."

DON'T MISS:

Novak Djokovic has key advantage over Rafael Nadal and everyone else that can't be taught

Ukrainian tennis ace withdraws from Indian Wells with 'panic attack' after 'shocking' chat

Ukrainian pro receives WTA reply after chief told her 'not to be upset' by Russian players

READ MORE

The star rose to prominence in 2017 when she became the first unseeded female player to reach the final at Roland Garos for 34 years. Furthermore, she was the first Latvian player to reach a Grand Slam final.

There, she stunned Simona Halep, coming from a set down to prevail. A year later, she reached the final four at Wimbledon, losing to eventual winner Angelique Kerber.

Related articles Djokovic already made feelings clear as he's banned from tournament Wawrinka and Rune involved in frosty exchange after Indian Wells match Nick Kyrgios makes allegiances clear after Wawrinka and Rune bust-up

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020230314ej3e001sf


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10861
Justina Vaišvilaitė
4152 字
2023 年 3 月 20 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10861 (95267) MONDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 20

 

CONSERVATIVES SUFFERED DEFEAT IN MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS – SOCDEM LEADER

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – Leader of the Lithuanian Social Democratic Party (LSDP), MEP Vilija Blinkevičiūtė, says the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD) suffered a defeat in 2023 municipal and mayoral elections.

"The Conservatives probably realise that these mayoral and municipal elections is not a victory for them. I would dare to say that in a sense it is a defeat because four years ago they had 11 mayors elected but this year just 5. This once again proves that Lithuanian people do not have trust in the Conservative party and perhaps it should draw certain conclusions from that,” Blinkevičiūtė stated Monday at a press conference held by the news agency ELTA.

The politician concluded that the Conservatives performed poorly in local elections probably because of decisions made by the Government and the ruling majority in parliament, where the party dominates.

Asked in which elections she would run next year, Blinkevičiūtė replied that the question was premature but she would make the announcement when time comes. In 2024, Lithuania will elected the president, the Lithuanian Parliament and members of the European Parliament.

 

TS-LKD STRONGHOLD LIES IN MAJOR CITIES, LANDSBERGIS SAYS

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis, chairman of the Homeland Union – Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD), admits that it is the leader of a political force who bears responsibility for the party’s election results.

"Every election is the responsibility of the party’s chairperson. I would not see it any other way. That is why I have said that I will no longer run for the chairperson of the party,” Landsbergis told LRT Monday in his comment on the unsuccessful performance of the TS-LKD in the mayoral elections.

On the other hand, the foreign minister noted, the party’s results drew certain direction for the elections to come. The Conservatives’ stronghold seems to be in the big cities, which is an important factor for both the forthcoming Seimas and presidential elections, Landsbergis emphasised.

"The Homeland Union’s main support is in the big cities. It is not for me to judge whether this is right or wrong. That is the reality today. Kaunas used to be, let us call it, the base of the Homeland Union. That does not mean that we are not a party of Lithuania anymore. The Homeland Union has always been a party of Lithuania,” Landsbergis said.

In any case, the politician continued, the performance of the TS-LKD in the last municipal elections is an important signal for the party which will also be a factor in its election of a new chairperson.

The TS-LKD has secured five mayoral seats and its members will head the municipalities of Palanga, Molėtai, Kupiškis, Pasvalys and Vilnius.

The Lithuanian Social Democratic Party (LSDP) was a leading party in the 2023 municipal and mayoral elections. The LSDP mayoral nominees won 17 seats. The political committees gained 11 mayoral seats, including in the major cities of Kaunas, Klaipėda, Šiauliai and Panevėžys. The Liberals Movement won mayorships in nine municipalities and the Lithuanian Farmers and Greens (LVŽS) secured 8 mayoral seats.

The Social Democrats also performed best in the elections of municipal councils held on 5 March. The party will have a total of 358 council seats in sixty municipalities.

The TS-LKD garnered slightly less support and will have 239 representatives on municipal councils.

 

LIBERAL MOVEMENT ASKS VRK TO ANNUL ELECTION RESULTS IN ANYKŠČIAI AND VISAGINAS

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – First Deputy Chair of the Liberal Movement Edita Rudelienė has announced that the party addressed the Central Electoral Commission (VRK) with a request to annul mayoral election results in Anykščiai district and Visaginas.

The Central Electoral Commission (VRK) initially barred two candidates from elections in these municipalities due to corruption convictions but they were soon reinstated by court.

"In my opinion the situation is not really normal. First, I would say that residents were cheated there. Not politicians (&) but people,” Rudelienė said in a press conference hosted by the news agency ELTA at the National Library on Monday.

The politician stated that the Liberal Movement has addressed the VRK with the request to annul election results in the two municipalities in question. She also called on the VRK to draw conclusions from the current situation, adding that the Code on Elections would also have to be reviewed and amended.

Kęstutis Tubis, the nominee of the Farmers and Greens Union (LVŽS), won the election in Anykščiai district. The VRK had eliminated him from elections after the first round held on 5 March due to conviction of trading in influence. However, court overruled the decision and the candidate was reinstated.

Meanwhile, LVŽS candidate Erlandas Galaguz won the mayoral race in Visaginas. He defeated Dalia Štraupaitė, the candidate of the party Freedom and Justice. She intends to appeal against the election outcome. The VRK had also eliminated Štraupaitė from elections after court barred her from being elected as mayor due to previous conviction of abuse of office. However, the Court of Appeal annulled the ruling and her candidature had to be reinstated.

 

MULTIPLE REASONS WHY PARTY STRUGGLED IN RURAL AREAS – CONSERVATIVES SAY

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – Andrius Vyšniauskas, head of the election campaign of the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD), is pleased that the party won mayoral elections in Vilnius but reasons behind losses in mayoral elections elsewhere will have to be analysed, he says.

"The situation in regions is more complex, we need to analyse losses in some municipalities. Of course, we are pleased about Vilnius because it outweighs half of Lithuania’s municipalities in size and importance. As regards regions, an in depth, detailed analysis is needed,” Vyšniauskas told the news agency ELTA on Monday.

Discussing why the party struggled in rural areas, the head of its election campaign said that in some municipalities voters wanted to see new mayors and the party should have probably renewed, whereas decisions made in national politics might have affected the election outcome, too.

"Of course, one should realise that being in the ruling majority, being in national government there always is the negative effect of ‘punishment’ in a sense. Political scientists have also named this. Therefore, I think there are multiple reasons. Which one was decisive today, it is hard to say. I do not think there was just one. What was their combination, as I have said, an in depth analysis is needed,” Vyšniauskas noted.

Meanwhile, MP Radvilė Morkūnaitė-Mikulėnienė disputed the idea that voters might have wanted to "punish” the TS-LKD, stressing that the Liberal Movement, which is part of the ruling coalition, won nine mayoral seats.

The MP added that, compared with 2019, the TS-LKD lost just 30 seats in municipal councils, which was not a dramatic change. However, she admitted that the situation was different with mayoral elections.

Five of the party’s candidates have won mayoral elections, compared with 11 in 2019. TS-LKD mayors have been elected in Vilnius, Molėtai, Palanga, Kupiškis district and Pasvalys district.

 

MAYOR-ELECT OF VILNIUS TO NEGOTIATE WITH SOCDEMS AND FREEDOM PARTY OVER COALITION

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – Valdas Benkunskas, mayor-elect of Vilnius, has revealed that the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD) will engage in talks with the Freedom Party and the Social Democratic Party (LSDP) in order to form a coalition at Vilnius City Municipal Council.

"It is important to have a coalition not only in arithmetical sense but also to somehow shape a broad one and on ideological basis. The Homeland Union is working together with the Freedom Party in the national government. The Social Democrats are returning to the city council after a break. Of course, this party is from the opposite spectrum, but it is a traditional party that has clear ideology, clearly expressed values in certain areas,” Benkunskas said in a press conference hosted on Monday by the news agency ELTA at the Martynas Mažvydas National Library of Lithuania.

The mayor-elect reiterated that other parties would be approached only if for some reason coalition talks are unsuccessful with the Freedom Party and the LSDP.

As reported, after 2023 municipal and mayoral elections the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD) has 19 seats in Vilnius City Municipal Council, the Freedom Party – 9, the party Freedom and Justice – 9, the Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania-Christian Families Alliance (LLRA-KŠS) – 7, the Lithuanian Social Democratic Party (LSDP) – 4, the National Alliance – 3.

 

CONTRARY TO TOMASZEWSKI’S CLAIMS ABOUT UNFAIR ELECTIONS, WATCHDOGS DID NOT DETECT VIOLATIONS

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – Election watchdogs stress that they did not detect violations in the second round of mayoral elections in Vilnius district on 19 March. They suggest that the Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania-Christian Families Alliance (LLRA-KŠS) should provide evidence of irregularities and file an appeal after its leader Waldemar Tomaszewski claimed that 2023 municipal and mayoral elections were unfair.

On Sunday, Waldemar Urban, the mayoral candidate of the LLRA-KŠS, lost the race in Vilnius district to Social Democrat Robert Duchnevič. The party lost the mayoral seat in Vilnius district after three decades. Afterwards, the party’s leader MEP Tomaszewski claimed that elections were not free and that there were too many observers whose goal it was allegedly to hinder elections. He was also displeased that other parties and politicians endorsed the Social Democratic candidate.

Deputy Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission (VRK) Maksimas Reznikovas said on Monday that if the LLRA-KŠS has proof of irregularities, then it should address the municipal electoral committee, which would consider the complaint. If the party were still dissatisfied by the decision, the complaint could be then handled by the VRK, he said.

Tomaszewski claimed that ballots were improperly counted in Rudamina. However, Reznikovas stressed that the local electoral committee is chaired by a representative of the LLRA-KŠS, as is the electoral committee of Vilnius district.

Moreover, head of election monitoring NGO Baltosios piršintės (White Gloves) Laimonas Petreikis said its observer stayed until all the ballots were counted and did not detect any violations. Social Democratic and LLRA-KŠS representatives also observed the counting of votes in this polling station.

 

NOT A FREE ELECTION – TOMASZEWSKI

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – MEP Waldemar Tomaszewski, leader of the Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania-Christian Families Alliance (LLRA-KŠS), claims that the 2023 municipal and mayoral elections were not free. LLRA-KŠS lost the mayoral seat in Vilnius district to a Social Democrat after holding power there for three decades.

"We had predicted a similar situation. This is not a defeat, this is the consequence of a political bazaar, when not only parties unite that are not running in this constituency, but when the country’s top leaders take advantage of their position to endorse and support one of the candidates,” Tomaszewski declared in a press conference held by the news agency ELTA at the National Library.

The politician welcomed LLRA-KŠS nominee Waldemar Urban garnering 49% of votes in runoff voting for Vilnius district mayor and finishing second.

"The result is good, but let us state the fact that after a dirty, biased election campaign we cannot call it a free election, unfortunately. It is what it is,” said the MEP.

Tomaszewski also claimed that when votes were being counted in one polling station, 100 ballots were initially granted to Social Democrat Robert Duchnevič instead of to Urban and the mistake was noticed after half an hour.

Tomaszewski said the leader has to assume responsibility for election results, adding that the LLRA-KŠS has received 5.5% of votes across the country this year, compared with 5% in 2019.

"We do not regard this to be a defeat because you can only lose in a fair fight, when the election is free,” he said.

In addition, mayoral hopeful Waldemar Urban intends to complain about the number of election observers from non-governmental organisations and about the presence of members of the Riflemen’s Union.

Tomaszewski also accused election observers of hindering voters to express their will. He claimed that a large number of election observers was sent to Vilnius district not to guarantee fair elections but to "psychologically pressure voters”.

Meanwhile, Laimonas Petreikis, a representative of NGO Baltosios pirštinės (White Gloves), told the public broadcaster LRT that few irregularities were noticed and they did not affect election outcome.

Responding to Tomaszewski’s accusations about the counting of ballots in Rudamina, he said the White Gloves’ observer was at the polling station until the counting of ballots finished and reported that everything went smoothly without any violations. Moreover, the election there was also observed by LLRA-KŠS and Social Democratic representatives.

As reported, Social Democrat Robert Duchnevič won elections in Vilnius district. The LLRA-KŠS has lost the mayoral seat in Vilnius district after three decades. Its representative Leokadija Počikovska was mayor in 1995-2004, followed by Marija Rekst in 2004-2023.

 

ICC’S ARREST WARRANT FOR PUTIN IS ALSO A MORAL STEP FORWARD – LANDSBERGIS

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – Ahead of Monday’s EU Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels, Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis welcomed the International Criminal Court’s decision to issue an arrest warrant for Vladimir Putin and stressed the major importance of the EU’s agreement on the joint purchase of ammunition for Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry said.

"We have always sought the creation of a Special Tribunal to prosecute war crimes in Ukraine. Thus, we welcome the issuance of an arrest warrant for Vladimir Putin by the International Criminal Court. We aim to find and punish not only the perpetrators of these crimes but also those who are politically responsible,” the head of Lithuania’s diplomacy said right before the Council meeting.

The foreign minister also noted that the EU’s agreement on the joint procurement of munitions was a significant political signal for Ukraine and the arms industry.

At the same time, the head of Lithuania’s diplomacy reiterated his call on the international community to sanction Rosatom.

In their meeting Monday, EU foreign ministers are set to exchange views on the situation in Ukraine, Russia’s accountability for war crimes and crimes against humanity, the extension of the Black Sea Grain Initiative, and cooperation with third countries on the global consequences of the Russian aggression.

Ministers will also discuss prospects for cooperation with Tunisia, the challenges of migration and possible assistance to Tunisia.

 

LITHUANIA’S FORMIN TO ATTEND THE EU'S FOREIGN AFFAIRS COUNCIL

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – On 20 March in Brussels, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis is attending the European Union’s Foreign Affairs Council to discuss Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine, Tunisia and Iran and the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue, announced the MFA.

EU foreign ministers will exchange views on the situation in Ukraine, Russia’s accountability for war crimes and crimes against humanity, the extension of the Black Sea Grain Initiative, and cooperation with third countries on the global consequences of the Russian aggression.

Ministers will also discuss prospects for cooperation with Tunisia, the challenges of migration and possible assistance to Tunisia.

In addition, the EU foreign affairs ministers will hold a joint session with EU defence ministers to discuss the implementation of the Strategic Compass one year after its approval and EU support to Ukraine.

 

FINMIN REVISES LITHUANIA’S GDP GROWTH PROJECTIONS DOWNWARD

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – The Ministry of Finance has updated the Economic Development Scenario projecting Lithuania’s GDP to grow by 0.5% in 2023 rather than 0.7% forecast earlier. In 2024-2026, the country’s GDP is projected to grow by around 3% a year.

The Finance Ministry also forecasts average annual inflation to stand at 8.5% this year, while salaries should grow by 9.1% on average.

What is more, unemployment may rise to 7% in 2023 but decrease to 6.8% in 2024 and 6% in the medium-term.

Annual change in export of goods and services at current prices is projected at 0% this year, but with foreign demand recovering it should grow by 4.9% per year in the medium-term.

Minister of Finance Gintarė Skaistė says Lithuania’s and the EU’s economy will continue to be affected by Russia’s war against Ukraine and uncertainty caused by it. Regardless of that, she says Lithuania’s economy has demonstrated resilience and economic growth is expected.

The minister says inflation in 2023 will be lower than forecast earlier as the situation in international energy markets has stabilised. Average salary growth is expected to remain rapid and exceed average annual inflation, which, according to the minister, is good news for people’s purchasing power.

 

LTG CARGO HELPS SAVE NEARLY 70MN KG OF CO2 IN 2022 BY TRANSPORTING INTERMODAL FREIGHTS

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – Customers of LTG Cargo, the freight transportation company of the Lietuvos Geležinkeliai Group (LTG), which is actively diversifying its operations, saved almost 70 million kilograms of carbon dioxide in 2022 by transporting intermodal freight by railways between Lithuania and the Western countries, the Lithuanian Railways said in a press release.

Lithuania joined the intermodal railway freight network in summer 2021 with the opening of Kaunas Intermodal Terminal. Currently, intermodal freights can be shipped to Duisburg in Germany, as well as to Slavkov in Poland, and from these terminals – to other European countries. In this way, it is convenient to transport by railway between Lithuania and the Western countries not only raw materials needed for industry, but also various types of equipment, furniture, car parts, industrial, household and other everyday commodities.

It is estimated that each container or trailer transported by railway from Kaunas to Duisburg saves almost 4,000 kg of CO2.

"In the few years that we have been organising intermodal railway freight transportation in Lithuania, we have already seen the special potential of this type of transportation. Moving freight from road to railway over long distances can be more sustainable and safer. Even individual customer containers can be transported by rail in this way. Also, from now on we will be able to calculate in a clear and certified way how much our customers have contributed to the environmental conservation namely by transporting their goods intermodally,” says Eglė Šimė, CEO of LTG Cargo.

According to Povilas Drižas, head of the International Transport and Logistics Alliance (ITLA), the direct connection of Kaunas Intermodal Terminal to the European railway network speeds up the regular services between Lithuania and the main European industrial centres, when trailers of trucks are transported by train.

Such combined freight transportation allows transport companies to save fuel and reduce CO2 emissions into the environment, he noted.

"Multimodal freight transportation opens up vast opportunities for the development of smart logistics hubs and for increasing the country's competitive advantage in the international transportation market. Increasing competition in the global freight transportation market and stricter environmental requirements prompt major transport and logistics companies to invest in sustainable infrastructure,” says Drižas.

Intermodal transportations help customers to balance their logistics chains, manage inflation and allow them to transport freight with a CO2 footprint up to 90% less.

 

CORONAVIRUS IN LITHUANIA: 439 NEW CASES, FOUR DEATHS IN LAST 3 DAYS

 

Vilnius, March 20 (ELTA) – A total of 439 people were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Lithuania on 17-19 March: 344 on Friday, 49 on Saturday and 46 on Sunday, the State Data Agency said.

Four virus-related fatalities were reported during the three-day period.

At present, 6,043 people are ill with the coronavirus, including 126 being treated in hospital. Five patients are undergoing treatment in intensive care units.

According to the agency, the death toll due to COVID-19 in Lithuania stands at 9,616.

The average number of new daily cases in the last 7 days is 325. The incidence rate per 100,000 residents in the last 14 days is 158.2.

Russian destabilisation of Moldova impacts Europe ‘considerably’ – Estonian minister

Tallinn, March 20 (ELTA) – Estonia’s outgoing Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu has recapitulated Estonia's support for Moldova's constitutional order and its sovereignty, in the face of destabilisation efforts in the country, which borders Ukraine, reports public broadcaster ERR.

Reinsalu said: "Estonia has been observing the repeated attempts of the Russian Federation to destabilise the Republic of Moldova and undermine the country’s democratic institution.”

"In our view, Russia’s attempts to destabilise the Republic of Moldova have a considerable impact on European security,” he said.

"We are watching the situation in Moldova closely and treating the developments there with utmost seriousness,” Reinsalu went on, according to a foreign ministry press release.

Reinsalu said Estonia was ready to come to Moldova’s aid, and added that Estonia would raise the issue at Monday’s EU foreign ministers’ meeting, during a phone call made to his Moldovan counterpart, Nicu Popescu, on Saturday.

 

IN FEBRUARY, PRODUCER PRICE INDEX IN ESTONIA WAS INFLUENCED BY FALLING PRICES IN MANUFACTURE OF WOOD

 

Tallinn, March 20 (ELTA) – The producer price index of industrial output, which expresses changes in the producer prices of industrial goods manufactured in Estonia for the domestic market and for export, decreased by 0.2% in February 2023 compared with January 2023 and increased by 11.6% compared with February 2022, reports Statistics Estonia.

Eveli Šokman, leading analyst at Statistics Estonia, said that, compared with January, the producer price index was most affected by falling prices in the manufacture of wood, electronic products, and paper and paper products. The index was also influenced by price increases in electricity and heat production and in the manufacture of electrical equipment.

Compared with February 2022, the index was primarily influenced by rising prices in the manufacture of food products, wood products, and building materials. Lower prices in the manufacture of fuel oils had the opposite effect on the index. The increase in producer prices was 12.1% in manufacturing as a whole and 21.0% in the manufacture of food products.

In February, the export price index remained at the same level compared with January. The biggest increase occurred in the prices of electricity, wearing apparel, and machinery and equipment. The biggest fall in prices was recorded in mining and quarrying and for paper products and petroleum products. Compared with February 2022, the export price index rose by 13.0%.

The import price index grew by 0.3% in February compared with January. The biggest increase was registered in the prices of electricity, agricultural products, and leather products and footwear. Prices fell the most in mining and quarrying, for paper products and for wearing apparel. Compared with February 2022, the import price index rose by 9.6%.

 

IN FEBRUARY ACTUAL UNEMPLOYMENT IN LATVIA WAS 7.0% AND REGISTERED 6.3%

 

Riga, March 20 (ELTA) – Results of the Labour Force Survey conducted by the Central Statistical Bureau of Latvia (CSB) show that in February 2023 actual unemployment rate in Latvia accounted for 7.0% and compared to January it has increased by 0.1 percentage points.

Unemployment rate among men grew by 0.1 percentage points up to 9.1% and among women it did not change and constituted 4.9%.

The unemployment rate registered with the State Employment Agency (SEA) constituted 6.3% and it has not changed since January. Compared to February 2022, actual unemployment rate has gone down by 0.3 percentage points and registered by 0.5 percentage points.

In February 2023 there were 66.5 thousand unemployed persons in Latvia (23.4 thousand women and 43.1 thousand men), which is an upturn of 0.6 thousand over the month and a downturn of 1.8 thousand over the year. Over the month, the number of both unemployed men and women grew by 0.3 thousand.

The SEA calculates registered unemployment rate by using own data on the registered unemployed persons and CSB data on active population (employed and unemployed persons) of working age. The actual unemployment rate is estimated based on not adjusted monthly survey results.

 

TENERIFE, MUNICH AND LONDON – AIRBALTIC TOP DESTINATIONS IN FEBRUARY FROM RIGA

 

Riga, March 20 (ELTA) – The Latvian national airline airBaltic has announced that its top destinations from Riga in February were Tenerife, Munich, London, and Brussels.

The airline’s focus on providing passengers with a wide range of travel options and convenient schedules has led to these destinations becoming increasingly popular among leisure and business travellers, airBaltic said in a press release.

In addition, flights to Paris, Berlin, Helsinki, and Amsterdam, operated by airBaltic, also ranked among the most favoured routes from Riga in February.

airBaltic provides flights to more than 70 destinations from Riga, Tallinn, Vilnius and Tampere, offering connections to a wide range of destinations in the airline’s route network in Europe, Scandinavia, the CIS and the Middle East.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230320ej3k001p5


EU approves Estonia's initiative to jointly send 1 mln artillery shells to Ukraine
BNS/TBT Staff
660 字
2023 年 3 月 20 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
TALLINN - The EU Foreign Affairs Council as well as a joint meeting of EU defense and foreign affairs ministers gave their political approval on Monday to Estonia's initiative to jointly send one million 155-millimeter artillery shells to Ukraine within 12 months.

Estonian Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu welcomed the EU's agreement in principle to give Ukraine one million artillery shells as part of a joint procurement within 12 months.

"Ukraine urgently needs additional ammunition to defend itself and the security of Europe," he said, adding that the EU's political decision is an important step in protecting the security of Ukraine and of all Europe.

The agreement will now be forwarded to the European Council for approval on March 23-24.

Estonian Minister of Defense Hanno Pevkur said that the aim of the initiative from Estonia is to provide Ukraine with urgently needed military aid as fast as possible and increase the European defense industry's manufacturing capabilities.

"Above all, Ukraine needs ammunition right now and today we put the clear objective in writing -- to send at least one million 155 mm caliber rounds of ammunition to Ukraine within the next 12 months,” Pevkur explained.

In addition to the political agreement, it now must be ensured that the mechanism chosen for carrying out the joint procurement is capable of meeting the objectives.

"Today’s agreement is only the beginning. To see it through, we need consistency and persistence, closer coordination and, of course, additional funding. For that, we fully support the proposal for an additional 3.5 billion euros to the European Peace Facility from member states," Pevkur added.

The agreement will be financed through the European Peace Facility. Its initial capacity was eight billion euros, however, in December 2022 the EU member states decided on an additional two billion euros to be allocated to the fund. In addition, member states agreed in December that the facility's budget will be increased by a maximum of 5.5, billion until the year 2027.

The EU Foreign Affairs Council meeting also addressed holding Russia accountable for its crimes in Ukraine.

"It is the moral obligation of the international community to hold Russian leaders accountable," Reinsalu said, and welcomed the International Criminal Court's decision from last week to issue arrest warrants against Russian President Vladimir Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova.

The Estonian foreign minister added that in addition, the EU needs to rapidly develop a joint position in order to make progress on a UN mandate in the creation of an international tribunal and prevent Russia going unpunished. Reinsalu also highlighted the importance of proceeding with an 11th package of sanctions against Russia, and underscored that in addition to imposing new sanctions, it is equally as important to ensure that Russia cannot circumvent existing ones.

"On top of additional sanctions, we also rapidly need to lower the price cap on oil because Russia is using the profit to finance its war in Ukraine," he said.

"We need to jointly establish in the EU sanctions against the people who were involved in the unlawful arrest of journalist and opposition activist Vladimir Kara-Murza," Reinsalu said. He added that the EU additionally also needs to create a separate sanction mechanism against the Russian oligarchs who act as proxy agents of Russia in Moldova.

The ministers also discussed the EU's strategic compass, situation in Tunisia, human rights violations in Iran and Iran's support to Russia's aggression against Ukraine.

Ahead of the EU Foreign Affairs Council meeting, Reinsalu spoke at the European Humanitarian Forum, saying that Russia's aggression has caused a humanitarian crisis in Ukraine and aggravated humanitarian aid needs globally.

"Estonia continues to make every effort to help ensure the necessary humanitarian aid and to stand up for compliance with the international humanitarian law," he said.

Click to view image[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/157522_16825818866418a1a48886d_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230320ej3k0002t


Lithuania mulls increasing fines for bringing cash from Russia, Belarus
BNS/TBT Staff
321 字
2023 年 3 月 22 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – Amid an increase in attempts to bring cash, linked to criminal activities and the war in Ukraine and broken down into small amounts, from Russia and Belarus into Lithuania, the government proposes to impose harsher punishment for those who help smuggle in the money and to allow the authorities to confiscate it.

The Cabinet approved on Wednesday legislative amendments to increase fines for providing inaccurate information on the origin, ownership and purpose of money.

The parliament will be asked to adopt the legislation, which is expected to help stem the flow of such cash into Lithuania, under a fast-track procedure.

"In many cases, in order to avoid the obligation to declare cash, individuals crossing the border in groups split up the amounts of cash they are carrying into smaller amounts equivalent to less than 10,000 euros," the Finance Ministry says.

The proposed amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and the Law on Tax Administration call for a fine of between 390 euros and 1,200 euros for inaccurate information on cash brought across the border, and between 1,040 and 3,900 euros for a repeated violation.

Currently, a person can be fined between 200 euros and 1,200 euros for inaccurate information on cash, which is not an effective sanction, according to the drafters of the amendments.

Data from the Finance Ministry show that in December and January, Lithuanian customs officers recorded 84 cases of Russian, Belarusian, Polish and Lithuanian citizens attempting to bring more than 41 million Ukrainian hryvnias (about 1.05 million euros) into the country.

"According to data obtained by the Lithuanian Customs in cooperation with European law enforcement authorities, the money may be linked to criminal activities and hostilities in Ukraine," the drafters of the amendments say.

It is said that a similar situation is observed in neighboring countries.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230322ej3m0000c


Lithuanian president, EU leaders to discuss new sanctions for Russia
BNS/TBT Staff
190 字
2023 年 3 月 23 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda and his EU counterparts will hold talks on new sanctions for Russia in Brussels on Thursday.

The president will also discuss support for Ukraine and talk about the EU at the European Council.

"The head of state will call on European leaders to continue their full support to Ukraine, to start negotiations on the 11th sanction package for Russia, and to pay attention to the situation in Moldova," the presidential press service said.

Lithuania will call for the inclusion of Russia's nuclear corporation Rosatom in the new package. Some countries, however, are against such a move as they use Russian technology.

Plans to sanction Belarus are also stalling in the EU. While Lithuania and other countries in the region are asking for more restrictions on Minsk, some of the EU member states want new exemptions Vilnius finds unacceptable.

Moreover, Nauseda is expected to one again raise the issue of a special tribunal in response to the International Criminal Court's recent decision to issue an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230323ej3n0002z


Latvian VID commences 150 criminal procedures over circumvention of sanctions
LETA
207 字
2023 年 3 月 31 日 10:11 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
The State Revenue Service (VID) has commenced about 150 criminal procedures over attempts to circumvent sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus, as VID deputy director general for customs affairs Raimonds Zukuls reported on Friday, the 31st of March.

Since the start of the war in Ukraine, VID Customs Office rejected a total of 3 692 shipments due to possible violations of sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus.

To prevent the risk of sanction violations, VID Customs Office performed 131 812 document control measures and 4 047 physical freight inspections.

VID Tax and Customs Police Department’s acting director Dairis Aniņš reported that of the commenced 150 criminal procedures, a total of three criminal cases have been submitted to commenced criminal prosecution. He explained the small number of cases submitted for criminal prosecution with the complexity and lengthy international information request procedures.

Additionally, 29 decisions on submission of evidence for evaluation and two decisions were made on the application of coercive measures on a legal person, said Aniņš.

Also read: Immigration Law amendment opponents could win in Constitutional Court

The post Latvian VID commences 150 criminal procedures over circumvention of sanctions appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020230331ej3v0005m


LATVIA: VID COMMENCES 150 CRIMINAL PROCEDURES OVER CIRCUMVENTION OF SANCTIONS
175 字
2023 年 4 月 3 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2023. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
The State Revenue Service (VID) has commenced about 150 criminal procedures over attempts to circumvent sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus, as VID deputy director general for customs affairs Raimonds Zukuls has reported.

Since the start of the war in Ukraine, VID Customs Office has rejected a total of 3 692 shipments due to possible violations of sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus.

To prevent the risk of sanction violations, VID Customs Office performed 131,812 document control measures and 4,047 physical freight inspections.

VID Tax and Customs Police Department's acting director Dairis Anins reported that of the commenced 150 criminal procedures, a total of three criminal cases were submitted for criminal prosecution. He explained the small number of cases submitted for criminal prosecution with the complexity and lengthy international information request procedures.

Additionally, 29 decisions on submission of evidence for evaluation and two decisions were made on the application of coercive measures on a legal person, said Anins. (BNN/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020230403ej4300021


Court of Justice of the European Union (General Court) Judgment: PNB Banka v ECB (T-275/19)
22277 字
2023 年 4 月 4 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Luxembourg: Court of Justice of the European Union (General Court) has issued the following Judgment on (07 December 2022):

JUDGMENT OF THE GENERAL COURT (Fourth Chamber, Extended Composition)

7 December 2022 (*)

(Economic and monetary policy - Prudential supervision of credit institutions - Powers of the ECB - Investigatory powers - On-site inspections - Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 - Decision of the ECB to conduct an inspection at the premises of a less significant credit institution - Action for annulment - Challengeable act - Admissibility - Competence of the ECB - Obligation to state reasons - Elements capable of justifying an inspection - Article 106 of the Rules of Procedure - Request for a hearing without a statement of reasons)

In Case T‑275/19, PNB Banka AS, established in Riga (Latvia), represented by O. Behrends, lawyer, applicant, European Central Bank (ECB), represented by C. Hernández Saseta, F. Bonnard and V. Hümpfner, acting as Agents, defendant, supported by

European Commission, represented by D. Triantafyllou, A. Nijenhuis and A. Steiblytė, acting as Agents, intervener, THE GENERAL COURT (Fourth Chamber, Extended Composition), composed, at the time of the deliberations, of S. Gervasoni (Rapporteur), President, L. Madise, P. Nihoul, R. Frendo and J. Martín y Pérez de Nanclares, Judges, Registrar: E. Coulon, having regard to the written part of the procedure, gives the following

Judgment

1 By its action based on Article 263 TFEU, the applicant, PNB Banka AS, seeks annulment of the decision of the European Central Bank (ECB), notified by letter of 14 February 2019, to conduct an on-site inspection at the applicant's premises.

I. Legal framework

2 Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 of 15 October 2013 conferring specific tasks on the European Central Bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions (OJ 2013 L 287, p. 63) contains a Chapter III, entitled 'Powers of the ECB'. Section 1 of that chapter, entitled 'Investigatory powers', includes Article 12, entitled 'On-site inspections', which is worded as follows:

'1. In order to carry out the tasks conferred on it by this Regulation, and subject to other conditions set out in relevant Union law, the ECB may in accordance with Article 13 and subject to prior notification to the national competent authority concerned conduct all necessary on-site inspections at the business premises of the legal persons referred to in Article 10(1) and any other undertaking included in supervision on a consolidated basis where the ECB is the consolidating supervisor in accordance with point (g) of Article 4(1). Where the proper conduct and efficiency of the inspection so require, the ECB may carry out the on-site inspection without prior announcement to those legal persons.

2. The officials of and other persons authorised by the ECB to conduct an on-site inspection may enter any business premises and land of the legal persons subject to an investigation decision adopted by the ECB and shall have all the powers stipulated in Article 11(1).

3. The legal persons referred to in Article 10(1) shall be subject to on-site inspections on the basis of a decision of the ECB.

4. Officials and other accompanying persons authorised or appointed by the national competent authority of the Member State where the inspection is to be conducted shall, under the supervision and coordination of the ECB, actively assist the officials of and other persons authorised by the ECB. To that end, they shall enjoy the powers set out in paragraph 2. Officials of the national competent authority of the participating Member State concerned shall also have the right to participate in the on-site inspections.

5. Where the officials of and other accompanying persons authorised or appointed by the ECB find that a person opposes an inspection ordered pursuant to this Article, the national competent authority of the participating Member State concerned shall afford them the necessary assistance in accordance with national law. To the extent necessary for the inspection, this assistance shall include the sealing of any business premises and books or records. Where that power is not available to the national competent authority concerned, it shall use its powers to request the necessary assistance of other national authorities.'

3 Article 13 of that regulation, entitled 'Authorisation by a judicial authority', provides:

'1. If an on-site inspection provided for in Article 12(1) and (2) or the assistance provided for in Article 12(5) requires authorisation by a judicial authority according to national rules, such authorisation shall be applied for.

2. Where authorisation as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is applied for, the national judicial authority shall control that the decision of the ECB is authentic and that the coercive measures envisaged are neither arbitrary nor excessive having regard to the subject matter of the inspection. In its control of the proportionality of the coercive measures, the national judicial authority may ask the ECB for detailed explanations, in particular relating to the grounds the ECB has for suspecting that an infringement of the acts referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 4(3) has taken place and the seriousness of the suspected infringement and the nature of the involvement of the person subject to the coercive measures. However, the national judicial authority shall not review the necessity for the inspection or demand to be provided with the information on the ECB's file. The lawfulness of the ECB's decision shall be subject to review only by the [Court of Justice of the European Union].'

4 Regulation (EU) No 468/2014 of the ECB of 16 April 2014 establishing the framework for cooperation within the Single Supervisory Mechanism between the ECB and national competent authorities and with national designated authorities (OJ 2014 L 141, p. 1) contains Part XI, entitled 'Access to information, reporting, investigations and on-site inspections', Title 5 of which contains Articles 143 to 146 and deals with on-site inspections. Article 143, entitled 'ECB decision to conduct an on-site inspection under Article 12 of [Regulation No 1024/2013]', provides, in paragraph 2:

'Without prejudice to Article 142 and pursuant to Article 12(3) of [Regulation No 1024/2013], on-site inspections shall be conducted on the basis of an ECB decision, which shall at a minimum specify the following:

(a) the subject matter and the purpose of the on-site inspection; and

(b) the fact that any obstruction to the on-site inspection by the legal person subject thereto shall constitute a breach of an ECB decision within the meaning of Article 18(7) of [Regulation No 1024/2013], without prejudice to national law as laid down in Article 11(2) of [Regulation No 1024/2013].'

5 Article 145 of Regulation No 468/2014, entitled 'Procedure and notification of an on-site inspection', provides:

'1. The ECB shall notify the legal person subject to an on-site inspection of the ECB decision referred to in Article 143(2), and of the identity of the members of the on-site inspection team, at least five working days before the start of the on-site inspection. It shall notify the NCA of the Member State where the on-site inspection is to be conducted at least one week before notifying the legal person subject to the on-site inspection of such inspection.

2. If the proper conduct and efficiency of the inspection so require, the ECB may carry out an on-site inspection without notifying the supervised entity concerned beforehand. The NCA shall be notified as soon as possible before the start of such on-site inspection.'

II. Background to the dispute

6 The applicant was, on the date of the contested decision, a less significant credit institution within the meaning of Article 6(4) of Regulation No 1024/2013 ('a less significant credit institution') established in Latvia. It was therefore placed under the direct prudential supervision of the Finanšu un kapitāla tirgus komisija (Financial and Capital Market Commission, Latvia; 'the FCMC').

7 The applicant's business model was that of a universal bank carrying out a significant proportion of its business with non-residents. Its main risk exposure concerned counterparties situated in Russia, Ukraine or in other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States.

8 On the date on which the action was brought, CR was the applicant's majority shareholder.

9 In February 2016, the FCMC imposed additional provisions on the applicant for loan losses and restrictions on activities. It also required the applicant, first, to remedy the breaches of the large exposure limits and, secondly, to strengthen its capital and to provide a regular liquidity report.

10 According to the applicant, on 25 August 2017, the applicant, together with CR and other members of his family, who are the applicant's shareholders, 'notified' the Republic of Latvia of a dispute relating to the protection of their investments. They claimed that the prudential requirements imposed by the FCMC on the applicant were unjustified and unreasonable.

11 According to the applicant, in August 2017, CR lodged a complaint with the United Kingdom authorities concerning acts of corruption alleged to have been committed by A, Governor of the Latvijas Banka (Central Bank of Latvia). The alleged acts of corruption consisted of attempts by the Governor to obtain, through his influence over the FCMC, bribes from CR.

12 On 31 August 2017, the FCMC notified the applicant of a decision imposing additional loan loss provisions on it, after establishing, following an on-site inspection, a persistent breach of the large exposure limits.

13 In September 2017, the applicant was classified as a 'less significant institution in crisis', within the meaning of the crisis management cooperation framework for less significant entities, which resulted in specific supervision of the applicant by a crisis management group composed of the FCMC and the ECB.

14 On 12 December 2017, the applicant, CR and other members of CR's family, the applicant's shareholders, brought arbitration proceedings against the Republic of Latvia before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), on the basis of the Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia for the Promotion and Protection of Investments ('the arbitration proceedings'). They maintained that, since the end of 2015, the applicant had been subject to excessive and arbitrary prudential supervision by the FCMC, resulting in increases in regulatory capital and restrictions on activities. They stated that that excessive and arbitrary prudential supervision was due to the influence which A exerted over the FCMC with the aim of obtaining bribes from the applicant and CR.

15 According to the applicant, in December 2017, CR reported to the Latvian authorities the acts of corruption referred to in paragraph 11 above.

16 On 17 February 2018, A was arrested following the opening, on 15 February 2018, of a preliminary criminal investigation initiated against him by the Korupcijas novēršanas un apkarošanas birojs (Anti-Corruption Office, Latvia; 'the KNAB'). The subject of that investigation was accusations of corruption in connection with the prudential supervision procedure in respect of a Latvian bank other than the applicant. By decision of 19 February 2018, when A was released, the KNAB imposed a number of security measures on him, including the prohibition on performing his duties as Governor of the Central Bank of Latvia.

17 On 28 June 2018, A was charged by the prosecutor leading the investigation referred to in paragraph 16 above. The indictment, supplemented on 24 May 2019, contained three charges. The first charge concerned the acceptance, in 2010, of an offer of a bribe by the Chairman of the supervisory board of a Latvian bank other than the applicant, and acceptance of the bribe itself, in return for which A allegedly provided advice to enable that bank to avoid supervision by the FCMC and refrained from participating in the FCMC meetings at which issues relating to the supervision of that bank were discussed. The second charge concerned, first, the acceptance, after 23 August 2012, of an offer of a bribe by the Vice-President of the board of directors of the same bank, in return for advice given by A in order to obtain the lifting of the restrictions on activities ordered by the FCMC and to prevent other restrictions, and, secondly, the acceptance by A of payment of half of that bribe. The third charge concerned money laundering intended to conceal the origin, transfers and ownership of the funds paid to A corresponding to the bribe referred to in the second charge.

18 By letters of 5 July and 12 September 2018, the applicant and CR informed the Chair of the Supervisory Board of the ECB that the investigation into the acts of corruption referred to in paragraph 11 above was ongoing. They stated that, after his arrest in February 2018, A had made hostile and incorrect public statements about them, claiming that CR's acquisition of the applicant was fraudulent. They considered that the prudential requirements of the FCMC vis-à-vis the applicant were excessive and discriminatory. They asked the ECB to intervene by conducting an investigation and by taking appropriate measures, such as appropriate changes in the staff responsible for the prudential supervision of the applicant. On that occasion they wrote: 'It was one of the key underlying ideas of the [Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM)] that a more objective and impartial supervision can be ensured under the control of the ECB rather than by the local supervisors. The [applicant] and [CR] look forward to cooperating with the ECB with this goal' (letter of 5 July 2018, page 13).

19 On 30 September 2018, ICSID issued interim measures recommending that the Republic of Latvia refrain from taking any measures to withdraw the applicant's authorisation, referring to an alleged non-compliance with one of the regulatory requirements that was subject to the final deadline laid down in a decision of the FCMC of 27 February 2018 ('the ICSID recommendation').

20 On 8 October 2018, the Chair of the Supervisory Board of the ECB informed the applicant and CR, in response to their letters of 5 July and 12 September 2018, that, in the context of its task of monitoring the functioning of the SSM, the ECB shared the FCMC's opinion that the applicant's situation in terms of capital required specific supervision. The Chair stated that the applicant had been granted repeated extensions of the deadlines for adopting measures on capital and that, despite the persistence of such problems, the applicant had not been subject to strict supervisory measures other than requests for capital strengthening, recovery measures and additional provisioning by the FCMC. The ECB took the view that the applicant had for several years disregarded the large exposure limit towards a third party and had been granted repeated extensions of the deadline for remedying that issue. The ECB considered that it had no indication that the supervisory measures imposed on the applicant were excessive or disproportionate. The Chair of the Supervisory Board concluded by stating that the ECB intended to carry out its oversight function by paying particular attention to the measures taken by the applicant to remedy the breaches of prudential requirements.

21 On 21 December 2018, the FCMC requested the ECB to take over the direct prudential supervision of the applicant.

22 On 10 January 2019, the Supervisory Board approved the draft decision to conduct an on-site inspection at the applicant's premises. That draft was submitted to the Governing Council for adoption in the context of the non-objection procedure. As the Governing Council raised no objection, the draft decision was deemed adopted on 21 January 2019 ('the draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council' or 'the contested decision').

23 The draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council states, as regards the reasons for the inspection, that several deficiencies and breaches of the applicable provisions were identified over the previous years and were not the subject of appropriate measures. First, since 2016, the applicant has breached the large exposure limits set out in Article 395 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ 2013 L 176, p. 1). Secondly, since February 2018, the applicant has breached the limits on transactions with related parties laid down in the Latvian legislation, due to the exposures to its main shareholder. Thirdly, since 2012, the FCMC has been obliged to take recurrent measures against the applicant in relation to anti-money laundering. Despite a fine imposed by the FCMC in July 2017, the applicant continues to breach the requirements relating to anti-money laundering and the fight against the financing of terrorism. Fourthly and lastly, the evolution of capital ratios over the last three years shows that, on several occasions, the applicant was close to breaching the Pillar 1 minimum capital requirements at group level. Since 2018, the applicant has periodically breached the Pillar 2 capital requirements. The auditors did not give an opinion in 2015, referring to issues as regards valuations of assets, whereas the newly appointed auditor issued qualified opinions in 2016 and 2017, also referring to issues as regards valuations of assets.

24 Next, the draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council states that the ICSID recommendation prevents the FCMC from implementing all supervisory measures with regard to the applicant. It states that, at the request of the FCMC, the ECB is preparing for the taking-over of direct prudential supervision of the applicant. It points out that an on-site inspection will enable the ECB to conduct its own analysis of the applicant's situation and states that that on-site inspection is possible irrespective of the taking-over of direct prudential supervision by the ECB. That decision indicates that, in conjunction with the taking-over of direct supervision, the ECB will then be able to take the supervisory measures necessary to ensure that the applicant complies with prudential requirements.

25 As regards the scope and timeline of the inspection, the draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council indicates that it is planned that the ECB will conduct an on-site inspection with the objective of an in-depth investigation of the applicant's risks, risk control and governance, in order to assess, inter alia, its procedures, systems and the quality of its management. The draft decision states that that on-site inspection will focus mainly on the credit risk.

26 The draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council also states that, on the basis of the results of the on-site inspection and the FCMC's most recent prudential reviews, an action plan, with a sufficiently close timeframe, will be prepared. It states that, if the irregularities identified during the on-site inspection are so serious and persistent that no prudential supervisory measure could ensure compliance with the rules in a reasonable timeframe, the ECB would initiate the procedure for withdrawal of authorisation.

27 The draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council also includes an annex entitled 'Overview of the recent supervisory history of [the applicant] as notified to the ECB'.

28 By letter of 14 February 2019, the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Micro-Prudential Supervision III ('the Director-General') informed the applicant that, pursuant to Article 6(5)(d) of Regulation No 1024/2013 in conjunction with Article 12 thereof and Articles 143 to 146 of Regulation No 468/2014, and according to a decision of the Supervisory Board of 10 January 2019, an on-site inspection would be conducted within the group with the objective of examining the credit risk. He stated that the scope of that review could be extended in the course of the investigation, if necessary, and that, in that case, the applicant would be informed by the Head of Mission on behalf of the ECB.

29 In that letter of 14 February 2019, the Director-General stated that the on-site inspection was scheduled for March 2019 and indicated the name of the head of the inspection mission. He stated that the head of the inspection mission would inform the applicant, on behalf of the ECB, of the identity of the members of the inspection team and would contact the applicant in the following days to organise an initial meeting.

30 In that letter of 14 February 2019, the Director-General requested the applicant to ensure that the entities concerned were informed of the content of that letter and of any subsequent changes. He requested the applicant to cooperate fully with the inspection and reminded it that, according to Article 143(2)(b) of Regulation No 468/2014, any obstruction to the on-site inspection by the legal person subject thereto constituted a breach of an ECB decision within the meaning of Article 18(7) of Regulation No 1024/2013, without prejudice to national law as laid down in Article 11(2) of that regulation.

31 By judgment of 26 February 2019, Rimšēvičs and ECB v Latvia (C‑202/18 and C‑238/18, EU:C:2019:139), the Court of Justice annulled the decision of the KNAB of 19 February 2018 in so far as it prohibited A from performing his duties as Governor of the Central Bank of Latvia. The Court considered that the Republic of Latvia had not established that the relieving of A from office as Governor of the Central Bank of Latvia was based on the existence of sufficient indications that he had engaged in serious misconduct for the purposes of the second subparagraph of Article 14.2 of Protocol No 4 on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the ECB.

32 By letter of 1 March 2019, the ECB notified the applicant that it had decided to classify it as a significant entity subject to its direct prudential supervision, pursuant to Article 6(5)(b) of Regulation No 1024/2013 and Article 39(5) of Regulation No 468/2014. That decision took effect on 4 April 2019.

33 On 5 March 2019, the head of the inspection mission met the applicant's management at an initial meeting, known as the 'kick-off meeting'. He set out, using a document handed to the applicant, the scope of the mission, entitled 'Credit risk and governance', namely classification and provisioning, inventory tape (foreclosed assets sold), collateral valuation and funds (assets held for sale), data quality, and governance and business model. He presented the members of the inspection team for each part of the mission. He specified the documentation requested from the applicant, in particular credit files and general documentation, and set out the method for exchanging information through a secure platform. He indicated the meetings to be planned which would cover the topics of the on-site inspection. He explained the organisation of the on-site inspection, in particular the inspection team's powers (access to premises, requests for information or documents within the scope of the inspection, read-only access to all relevant IT systems, interviews with any person, exchange of information with auditors) and the timetable of the inspection. That timetable referred to the Director-General's letter of 14 February 2019, an initial request for information of 26 February 2019, the kick-off meeting, on-site fieldwork from 11 March to 10 May 2019, the submission of a draft report on 12 July 2019, an 'exit meeting' on 19 July 2019, a final report, a 'closing meeting' and, finally, monitoring of the applicant's action plan.

34 The inspection began on 11 March 2019.

35 By application lodged at the Registry of the General Court on 24 April 2019, the applicant, CR and CT brought the present action.

III. Events subsequent to the bringing of the action

36 On 14 May 2019, the FCMC imposed on the applicant a fine of EUR 4 260 for infringements of the Kredītiestāžu likums (Law on Credit Institutions, Latvijas Vēstnesis, 1995, No 163) requiring the submission and publication of the annual accounts and the consolidated annual accounts, together with a sworn auditor's report.

37 By application lodged at the Court Registry on 14 May 2019 (Case T‑301/19), the applicant, CR and CT sought annulment of the ECB's decision, notified by letter of 1 March 2019, to classify the applicant as a significant entity subject to its direct prudential supervision (see paragraph 32 above).

38 On 12 August 2019, the on-site inspection at the applicant's premises was completed.

39 On 15 August 2019, the ECB concluded that the applicant was failing or likely to fail within the meaning of Article 18(1)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2014 establishing uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms in the framework of a Single Resolution Mechanism and a Single Resolution Fund and amending Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 (OJ 2014 L 225, p. 1). On the same day, the Single Resolution Board (SRB) decided not to adopt a resolution scheme under Article 18(1) of that regulation in respect of the applicant.

40 On 22 August 2019, the FCMC requested the Rīgas pilsētas Vidzemes priekšpilsētas tiesa (Riga City Court (Vidzeme District), Latvia) to declare the applicant insolvent.

41 On 12 September 2019, the Rīgas pilsētas Vidzemes priekšpilsētas tiesa (Riga City Court (Vidzeme District)) declared the applicant insolvent. It appointed an insolvency administrator to deal with the insolvency proceedings ('the insolvency administrator') and transferred to him all the powers of the applicant and its board of directors. It rejected the request of the applicant's board of directors to maintain its rights to represent the applicant in the context of the action against the ECB's assessment of 15 August 2019 which had found that the applicant was failing or likely to fail, against the SRB's decision of the same date not to adopt a resolution scheme in respect of the applicant, and against the FCMC's decision to initiate insolvency proceedings. That court added that that did not exclude the possibility for the applicant's board of directors to submit a separate request to the insolvency administrator concerning the rights of representation in specific assignments.

42 Also on 12 September 2019, the FCMC requested the ECB to withdraw the applicant's authorisation.

43 By application lodged at the Court Registry on 25 October 2019 (Case T‑732/19), the applicant and other shareholders or potential shareholders of the applicant sought annulment of the SRB's decision of 15 August 2019 not to adopt a resolution scheme in respect of the applicant.

44 On 21 December 2019, A ceased to hold office as Governor of the Central Bank of Latvia.

45 By application lodged at the Court Registry on 29 January 2020 (Case T‑50/20), the applicant sought annulment of the ECB's decision of 19 November 2019 refusing to instruct the insolvency administrator to grant the lawyer authorised by the applicant's board of directors access to the applicant's premises, information, staff and resources.

46 On 17 February 2020, the ECB withdrew the applicant's authorisation. That withdrawal took effect on the following day.

47 By application lodged at the Court Registry on 27 April 2020 (Case T‑230/20), the applicant brought an action against that decision.

IV. Procedure and forms of order sought

48 By document lodged at the Court Registry on 15 July 2019, the European Commission sought leave to intervene in the present proceedings in support of the form of order sought by the ECB. By decision of 28 August 2019, the President of the Fourth Chamber of the General Court granted the Commission leave to intervene.

49 On 16 July 2019, the ECB lodged its defence at the Court Registry.

50 On 10 September 2019, the Commission lodged its statement in intervention at the Court Registry.

51 On 19 December 2019, the General Court (Fourth Chamber), by way of a measure of organisation of procedure, requested the ECB to produce the draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council.

52 On 10 January 2020, the ECB produced a full confidential version of the requested document, addressed to the Court (Annex D.1), and a non-confidential version of that document. On 29 January 2020, the President of the Fourth Chamber decided not to place the confidential version of that document in the file.

53 On 28 April 2020, the President of the Fourth Chamber decided, pursuant to Article 69(d) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Court, to stay the proceedings until the delivery of the decision of the Court in Case T‑50/20. By order of 12 March 2021, PNB Banka v ECB (T‑50/20, EU:T:2021:141), the Court gave its decision in that case, and the proceedings in the present case resumed on that date.

54 On 28 April 2021, and subsequently on 28 June 2021, the applicant, CR and CT requested that the proceedings be stayed pending the ruling of the Court of Justice in Case C‑321/21 P, relating to the appeal brought against the order of 12 March 2021, PNB Banka v ECB (T‑50/20, EU:T:2021:141). On 20 May 2021, and subsequently on 6 August 2021, the President of the Fourth Chamber decided, after hearing the ECB, not to stay the proceedings.

55 By letter of 8 July 2021, the applicant's representative informed the General Court that he no longer represented CR and CT. By order of 21 December 2021, the Court (Fourth Chamber) decided, on the basis of Article 131(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that there was no longer any need to adjudicate on the present action in so far as it was brought by CR and CT.

56 The deadline for lodging the reply was last set at 30 September 2021. The applicant did not lodge a reply within the prescribed period.

57 The applicant claims that the Court should:

- annul the ECB's decision 'of 14 February 2019' to conduct an on-site inspection at its premises and its group companies;

- order the ECB to pay the costs.

58 The ECB, supported by the Commission, contends that the Court should:

- dismiss the action as unfounded;

- order the applicant to pay the costs.

V. Law

A. The existence, for the representative who brought the action on behalf of the applicant, of an authority to act

59 According to Article 51(3) of the Rules of Procedure, where the party represented by the lawyer is a legal person governed by private law, the lawyer must lodge at the Registry an authority to act given by that person.

60 An authority given by the Chairman of the applicant's board of directors on 5 March 2019 is included in the file (Annex A.2).

61 The applicant claims that the insolvency administrator refused to allow the lawyer appointed by the applicant to represent it access to the applicant's documents, premises, staff and resources. The applicant produced, in its reply of 13 March 2020 to a question put by the Court, a letter from the insolvency administrator of 16 September 2019 stating that the applicant's lawyer should, first, 'submit to the [Insolvency] Administrator a written status report on the performance of the Agreement [relating to the provision of legal services], indicating in detail the instructions received from [the applicant], tasks performed by [the lawyer] and whether there is any actual work in progress', secondly, 'inform the [Insolvency] Administrator regarding payments …', thirdly, 'refrain from any activities on behalf of [the applicant] without prior consultation with the [Insolvency] Administrator, especially to cease providing billable services to [the applicant]'.

62 Despite that letter from the insolvency administrator of 16 September 2019, it is not apparent from the documents in the file, nor does the applicant or the ECB claim, that the insolvency administrator revoked the authority given by the Chairman of the applicant's board of directors on 5 March 2019. That letter does not mention such a revocation, even though it states that the lawyer appointed by the Chairman of the board of directors must refrain from any activities on behalf of the applicant without prior consultation with the insolvency administrator.

63 Accordingly, the Court finds that the applicant lodged an authority for its lawyer to bring an action in accordance with Article 51(3) of the Rules of Procedure.

B. The requests for a stay of proceedings submitted on 28 April 2021, and subsequently on 28 June 2021

64 On 28 April 2021, and subsequently on 28 June 2021, the applicant requested that the proceedings be stayed. In support of its requests that the proceedings be stayed, it claimed that it needed access to its premises, files and financial resources and that the insolvency administrator was not cooperating in order to ensure that the applicant was represented effectively, despite the judgment of 5 November 2019, ECB and Others v Trasta Komercbanka and Others (C‑663/17 P, C‑665/17 P and C‑669/17 P, EU:C:2019:923).

65 Although the Court is not required to state the reasons for deciding whether or not to stay proceedings pursuant to Article 69(c) or (d) of the Rules of Procedure, it considers it appropriate, exceptionally, to state the following.

66 The decision whether or not to stay proceedings, on the basis of Article 69(c) or (d) of the Rules of Procedure, falls within the discretion of the Court (see, to that effect, orders of 20 October 2011, DTL v OHIM, C‑67/11 P, not published, EU:C:2011:683, paragraphs 32 and 33; of 15 October 2012, Internationaler Hilfsfonds v Commission, C‑554/11 P, not published, EU:C:2012:629, paragraph 37; and of 17 January 2018, Josel v EUIPO, C‑536/17 P, not published, EU:C:2018:14, paragraph 5).

67 In the present case, on 28 April 2020, the proceedings were stayed pending delivery of the Court's decision in Case T‑50/20, by which the applicant had sought annulment of the ECB's decision of 19 November 2019 refusing to instruct the insolvency administrator to grant the lawyer authorised by the applicant's board of directors access to its premises, information, staff and resources.

68 By order of 12 March 2021, PNB Banka v ECB (T‑50/20, EU:T:2021:141), the Court dismissed the applicant's action. It held, in particular, that the ECB manifestly lacked competence to accede to the request of the applicant's board of directors to instruct the insolvency administrator to grant the lawyer authorised by that board access to the applicant's premises, information, staff and resources (paragraph 73). The Court also held that decisions taken by the national authorities in the context of insolvency proceedings, such as those to which the applicant is subject, in response to any request for access to documents, premises, staff or resources of the credit institution at issue are, as a rule, subject to review by the national courts, which, if necessary, may refer questions to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling under Article 267 TFEU in cases where they encounter difficulties in interpreting or applying EU law (paragraph 72).

69 It should also be noted that, despite, inter alia, the stay of the proceedings from 28 April 2020 to 12 March 2021, the applicant has not established or even claimed, including in its request of 28 June 2021 that the proceedings be stayed, that it brought legal proceedings against the insolvency administrator, whom it nevertheless accuses, before the General Court, of depriving the lawyer authorised by the applicant's board of directors of access to its premises, information, staff and resources since the end of 2019.

70 After producing exchanges of letters and emails with the insolvency administrator that had taken place on 12 and 16 September 2019 and in November 2019, the applicant merely claimed, in its request for a stay of the proceedings lodged at the Court Registry on 28 April 2021, that it had 'reinforced its efforts' with regard to the insolvency administrator and the Latvian courts, without providing any details of the nature of those efforts.

71 In addition, it is not apparent from the decision of 12 September 2019 of the Rīgas pilsētas Vidzemes priekšpilsētas tiesa (Riga City Court (Vidzeme District)), referred to in paragraph 41 above, that the applicant would be prevented from bringing a potential dispute with the insolvency administrator before the Latvian courts. Not only does that decision mention that the applicant's board of directors does have the option to submit a separate request to the insolvency administrator as regards the rights of representation in specific assignments, but the judgment of 5 November 2019, ECB and Others v Trasta Komercbanka and Others (C‑663/17 P, C‑665/17 P and C‑669/17 P, EU:C:2019:923), relied on by the applicant in order to argue that the insolvency administrator did not cooperate satisfactorily to ensure that the applicant was represented effectively, came after that decision, with the result that the applicant could, a priori, rely on that judgment as a new element before the national court.

72 Accordingly, the Court considers that there is no need to stay the proceedings again.

C. Oral part of the procedure

73 According to Article 106 of the Rules of Procedure:

'1. The procedure before the General Court shall include, in the oral part, a hearing arranged either of the General Court's own motion or at the request of a main party.

2. Any request for a hearing made by a main party must state the reasons for which that party wishes to be heard. …

3. If there is no request as referred to in paragraph 2, the General Court may, if it considers that it has sufficient information available to it from the material in the file, decide to rule on the action without an oral part of the procedure. …'

74 It thus follows from the wording of Article 106 of the Rules of Procedure that, in the absence of a request for a hearing stating the reasons why a main party wishes to be heard, the Court may, if it considers that it has sufficient information, rule on the action without an oral part of the procedure.

75 The explanatory notes to the draft Rules of Procedure of 14 March 2014, which are accessible to the public on the website of the Court of Justice of the European Union, also confirm that, having regard in particular to the requirements of the sound administration of justice and procedural economy, 'the General Court proposes to be able to dispense with organising a hearing if it does not consider a hearing necessary, unless one of the main parties submits a request stating the reasons for which it wishes to be heard'.

76 The Practice Rules for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure ('the PRI') state, in paragraph 142, that a main party who wishes to present oral argument must submit a reasoned request for a hearing, within three weeks after service on the parties of notification of the close of the written part of the procedure. That reasoning must be based on a real assessment of the benefit of a hearing to the party in question and must indicate the elements of the case file 'or' arguments which that party considers it necessary to develop 'or' refute more fully at a hearing. In order better to ensure that the arguments remain focused at the hearing, the statement of reasons should 'preferably' not be in general terms merely referring, for example, to the importance of the case. Paragraph 143 of the PRI states that, if no reasoned request is submitted by a main party within the prescribed time limit, the Court may decide to rule on the action without an oral part of the procedure.

77 It thus follows from Article 106 of the Rules of Procedure and from paragraphs 142 and 143 of the PRI that, if no request for a hearing is made, or if a request for a hearing is made without a statement of reasons, the Court may decide to rule on the action without an oral part of the procedure if it considers that it has sufficient information available to it from the material in the case file.

78 In the present case, the applicant, by letter of 29 November 2021, expressed its view on the holding of a hearing in the following terms:

'1. I confirm that for the reasons which I have explained in great detail there is currently no effective representation of the [applicant]. Merely in order to comply with the relevant deadline I hereby request an oral hearing. However, it would be necessary for the effective representation [of the applicant] to be restored first.

2. A hearing can neither be prepared nor attended under the current circumstances.'

79 It is apparent from that letter of 29 November 2021 that the request for a hearing made by the applicant lacks any statement of reasons. That request does not state any reason why the applicant wishes to be heard.

80 In addition, in its letter of 25 October 2021 informing the main parties of the closure of the written part of the procedure, the Court Registry referred to the provisions of Article 106(2) of the Rules of Procedure and those of paragraph 142 of the PRI and drew the main parties' attention to the fact that, in the context of the health crisis, the statement of reasons had to satisfy the requirements of that paragraph of the PRI.

81 It is true that the applicant submitted, in its request for a hearing, that it considered that it did not have any effective representation.

82 Even if, in so doing, the applicant attempts implicitly to justify the failure to state reasons for its request for a hearing, which is not, however, apparent from that request, it must be held that its argument relating to a lack of effective representation cannot be regarded as a justification for the failure to state reasons for that request. In particular, the fact that the applicant had no effective representation, on the basis which it states, in no way prevented it from submitting detailed information in support of a request for a hearing.

83 Accordingly, given that the applicant did not submit any reasoning whatsoever in its request for a hearing and, moreover, it had been expressly reminded by the Court Registry of the obligation to state reasons for that request, it must be held that that request for a hearing does not comply with Article 106(2) of the Rules of Procedure.

84 In those circumstances, the Court, finding that it has sufficient information available to it from the documents in the file, has decided to rule on the action without an oral part of the procedure, in accordance with Article 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.

D. Subject matter of the action

85 In the application, the applicant seeks annulment of the ECB's decision 'of 14 February 2019' to conduct an on-site inspection at its premises and its group companies. It states that the Director-General's letter of 14 February 2019 refers to the decision of the Supervisory Board of 10 January 2019, but that the latter decision was not disclosed to the applicant. It states that it seeks the annulment of the decision to conduct the on-site inspection which was notified to it by the ECB by letter of 14 February 2019 'irrespective of when this decision was adopted internally within the ECB'.

86 It is apparent from that letter of 14 February 2019, the defence and the ECB's response to the measure of organisation of procedure of 19 December 2019 that the draft decision to conduct an on-site inspection at the applicant's premises, approved by the Supervisory Board on 10 January 2019, was deemed adopted by the Governing Council on 21 January 2019, in the context of the non-objection procedure referred to in Article 26(8) of Regulation No 1024/2013.

87 It must be held that the draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council on 21 January 2019, the main grounds of which have been set out in paragraphs 23 to 27 above, is the formal decision to conduct an on-site inspection at the applicant's premises approved by the Governing Council, it being noted that the applicant had access to that document, in a version where certain information was omitted, only following the measure of organisation of procedure adopted by the Court on 19 December 2019.

88 The essence of the decision to conduct an on-site inspection, in view of the confidentiality requirements attached to the deliberations of the Governing Council, was notified to the applicant by the letter of 14 February 2019 from the Director-General, summarised in paragraphs 28 to 30 above.

89 Consequently, the action must be regarded as seeking annulment of the decision to conduct an on-site inspection adopted by the ECB on 21 January 2019 and notified, in essence, by letter of 14 February 2019.

E. The plea of inadmissibility raised by the Commission, arguing that a decision to conduct an on-site inspection does not modify the legal situation of the person under investigation

90 The Commission submits that inspections carried out in the context of the supervision of credit institutions are a means by which a competent authority ensures continuous supervision, that is to say, collects factual evidence on the basis of which it may subsequently take measures by way of a decision, which will certainly be an act producing legal effects on the person inspected. The inspection measure does not conclude any procedure and does not establish the position to be adopted by the investigating authority. It is a stage in a procedure, possibly comprising several stages, which may be challenged by an action brought against the final decision. The inspection decision itself does not yet modify, as such, the legal situation of the person under investigation. Consequently, the action should be dismissed as inadmissible.

91 The applicant submits, on the contrary, that the contested decision constitutes a challengeable act under Article 263 TFEU.

92 As regards the Commission's standing to raise that plea of inadmissibility, it must be noted that, according to Article 142(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the intervention is to be limited to supporting, in whole or in part, the form of order sought by one of the main parties. In addition, according to Article 142(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the intervener must accept the case as he finds it at the time of his intervention.

93 It follows from those provisions that a party which is granted leave to intervene in a dispute in support of the defendant has no standing to raise a plea of inadmissibility not set out in the form of order sought by the defendant (see, to that effect, judgment of 1 July 2008, Chronopost and La Poste v UFEX and Others, C‑341/06 P and C‑342/06 P, EU:C:2008:375, paragraph 67 and the case-law cited).

94 It follows that the Commission has no standing to raise that plea of inadmissibility, therefore the Court is not required to respond expressly to it as regards the substance.

95 However, given that, in accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure, the General Court may at any time, of its own motion, after hearing the main parties, consider whether there exists any absolute bar to proceeding with a case, it is necessary, in the present case, in the interests of the sound administration of justice, to examine that absolute bar to proceeding with the case (see, to that effect, judgments of 24 March 1993, CIRFS and Others v Commission, C‑313/90, EU:C:1993:111, paragraph 23, and of 19 September 2018, HH Ferries and Others v Commission, T‑68/15, EU:T:2018:563, paragraph 41 (not published)).

96 Where the action for annulment against an act adopted by an institution is brought by a natural or legal person, the action lies only if the binding legal effects of that act are capable of affecting the interests of the applicant by bringing about a distinct change in his or her legal position (judgments of 11 November 1981, IBM v Commission, 60/81, EU:C:1981:264, paragraph 9, and of 13 October 2011, Deutsche Post and Germany v Commission, C‑463/10 P and C‑475/10 P, EU:C:2011:656, paragraph 37).

97 It does not follow from any provision or principle that any inspection at the premises of an undertaking must, whatever its nature, be the subject of an administrative decision amenable to judicial review or, a fortiori, be authorised by a judicial authority.

98 Although, 'in certain circumstances', the rights guaranteed by Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union ('the Charter') relating to private and family life, may be construed as including the right to respect for a company's registered office, branches or other business premises (see, to that effect, ECtHR, 16 April 2002, Société Colas Est and Others v. France, CE:ECHR:2002:0416JUD003797197, paragraph 41), objectives of general interest such as safety, health, protection of the fundamental rights of workers or of the public present in the premises of that company, economic public order or even the sound use of public funds, are capable of justifying the implementation of inspections laid down by the legislature. In that regard, the legislature has a broader discretion where the measure concerns legal persons and not individuals (see, to that effect, ECtHR, 2 October 2014, Delta Pekárny a.s. v. Czech Republic, CE:ECHR:2014:1002JUD000009711, paragraph 82).

99 Where the legislature provides that the administration is to conduct inspections at the premises of an undertaking, it is for that authority to define, having regard in particular to the objective pursued and the nature of the activity and premises in question, the powers conferred on inspection officials and the safeguards relating to those powers, in particular judicial safeguards, so that any interference with the company's right to respect for its premises caused by the inspection is necessary and proportionate.

100 Although certain inspections, such as the inspections in the field of competition laid down in Article 20(4) of Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 on the implementation of the rules on competition laid down in Articles [101 and 102 TFEU] (OJ 2003 L 1, p. 1), require the adoption of a decision amenable to judicial review, the same is not true of other types of inspections, in particular where the authorities do not have the power to enforce the inspection, even where the inspection is mandatory and the undertaking may be liable to administrative or criminal penalties if it opposes the inspection.

101 By way of example, the inspections in competition matters laid down in Article 20(3) of Regulation No 1/2003, the on-the-spot checks laid down in Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 809/2014 of 17 July 2014 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the integrated administration and control system, rural development measures and cross compliance (OJ 2014 L 227, p. 69), and the checks carried out in the Member States pursuant to Article 12 of Convention No 81 of the International Labour Organization of 11 July 1947 on labour inspection, do not require the adoption of an administrative decision amenable to judicial review.

102 In the present case, by adopting Article 12(3) of Regulation No 1024/2013, the EU legislature nevertheless decided, as it was entitled to do, that the inspections of the legal persons referred to in Article 10(1) of that regulation, in particular credit institutions established in participating Member States, had to be carried out by the ECB on the basis of a decision.

103 In that regard, it should be noted that, in accordance with Article 288 TFEU, a decision is binding in its entirety.

104 Thus, by providing that a legal person is to be subject to the inspection laid down in Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 on the basis of a decision, the EU legislature attributed binding legal effects to the act providing for that inspection.

105 Furthermore, Article 143(2) of Regulation No 468/2014 sets out the minimum information that must be included in the inspection decision, namely the subject matter and purpose of the on-site inspection and the fact that any obstruction to the on-site inspection by the legal person subject thereto constitutes a breach of an ECB decision within the meaning of EU legislation, without prejudice to the applicable national law. Article 145(1) of that regulation states that that decision is to be notified to the person subject to the on-site inspection.

106 In those circumstances, an on-site inspection decision adopted on the basis of Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 entails binding legal effects vis-à-vis the credit institution notified of that decision, by subjecting that institution to an inspection the subject matter and purpose of which are defined in the decision.

107 It is true that, unlike the provisions of Article 21 of Regulation No 1/2003 relating to the 'inspection of other premises', laid down for the implementation of competition rules, Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 provides that on-site inspections are to take place on the 'business premises of the legal persons' concerned, and not at 'other premises, land and means of transport, including the homes of directors, managers and other members of staff of the undertakings and associations of undertakings concerned'. From that perspective, on-site inspections of credit institutions are not capable of interfering with the right to privacy in the same way as the inspections of other premises laid down for the implementation of competition rules.

108 It is also true that, even though a decision of the ECB adopted on the basis of Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 entails binding legal effects vis-à-vis the credit institution notified of that decision, the possibility of using coercive measures to implement that decision is subject, as provided for in Article 13 of that regulation, to authorisation by a national judicial authority.

109 It is also true that, unlike Article 20(4) of Regulation No 1/2003, Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 does not mention the existence of an action before the EU judicature against an on-site inspection decision of the ECB. Only the provisions of Article 13 of that regulation, relating to authorisation by a national judicial authority, provide that the lawfulness of the ECB's inspection decision is subject to review only by the Court of Justice of the European Union.

110 However, it necessarily follows from the provisions of Article 13 of Regulation No 1024/2013 that, at the very least when the ECB seeks authorisation from a judicial authority after having adopted an on-site inspection decision, an action may lie against that decision before the General Court.

111 Moreover, given that the EU legislature decided, unlike the mechanism laid down in Article 20(3) and (4) of Regulation No 1/2003, to confer the status of decisions on all acts enabling the ECB to conduct on-site inspections in credit institutions, there is no need to distinguish the system of judicial review of those acts according to whether or not an application for authorisation by a judicial authority is submitted by the ECB. First, the possibility of bringing an action before the Court against a measure adopted by an institution is not subject to the existence of an express reference to that effect in the legislation. Secondly, a solution to the contrary would be liable to undermine the principle of legal certainty, given that the possibility of bringing an action before the General Court against an on-site inspection decision of the ECB would then depend on that institution's decision whether or not to seek, after the adoption of that decision, the authorisation of a national judicial authority laid down in Article 13 of Regulation No 1024/2013.

112 Finally, it is true that, as the Commission states, provisional measures intended to pave the way for the final decision do not, in principle, constitute acts which may form the subject matter of an action for annulment (see, to that effect, judgment of 11 November 1981, IBM v Commission, 60/81, EU:C:1981:264, paragraph 10).

113 However, the intermediate acts thus referred to are, first and foremost, acts which express a provisional opinion of the institution (see judgment of 13 October 2011, Deutsche Post and Germany v Commission, C‑463/10 P and C‑475/10 P, EU:C:2011:656, paragraph 50 and the case-law cited), which is not the case with ECB inspection decisions.

114 Furthermore, an action for annulment of the decision by which the ECB decides to conduct an on-site inspection at the premises of a credit institution does not entail a likelihood of confusion between the various administrative and judicial phases. Such an action should not lead the Court to rule on whether there has been an infringement of the rules on prudential supervision committed by the undertaking concerned (see, to that effect, judgment of 11 November 1981, IBM v Commission, 60/81, EU:C:1981:264, paragraph 20).

115 Consequently, bearing in mind that the legislature decided, in its discretion, to classify acts adopted on the basis of Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 as decisions irrespective of the existence of an authorisation issued by a national judicial authority, and decided to refer to the existence of a review of legality by the Court of Justice of the European Union in Article 13 of that regulation, on-site inspection decisions of the ECB cannot be regarded as provisional measures against which no judicial remedy lies.

116 It follows from the foregoing that an on-site inspection decision adopted on the basis of Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013, such as the contested decision, is capable of affecting the interests of the legal person notified of that decision, by bringing about a distinct change in its legal position, with the result that the decision may be the subject of an action for annulment brought by that person before the General Court on the basis of Article 263 TFEU, which, moreover, the main parties do not dispute.

117 Accordingly, the action is admissible.

F. Substance

118 The applicant raises ten pleas in law in the present action: the first plea in law, alleging that the ECB lacked competence to adopt the contested decision; the second plea in law, alleging infringement of Article 12(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013, in that the contested decision was not necessary within the meaning of that provision; the third plea in law, alleging infringement of that provision, in that the ECB failed properly to exercise its discretion; the fourth plea in law, alleging infringement of the principle of proportionality; the fifth plea in law, alleging infringement of the applicant's right to be heard; the sixth plea in law, alleging infringement of the ECB's obligation to examine and appraise carefully and impartially all the relevant aspects of the individual case; the seventh plea in law, alleging a failure to state reasons; the eighth plea in law, alleging infringement of the principles of the protection of legitimate expectations and legal certainty; the ninth plea in law, alleging infringement of the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination; the tenth plea in law, alleging infringement of Article 19 and recital 75 of Regulation No 1024/2013 and misuse of powers.

119 It is appropriate to examine the pleas relating to the formal legality of the contested decision before the pleas relating to its validity.

1. First plea in law, alleging that the ECB lacked competence

120 The applicant submits that the ECB was not the competent supervisory authority on the date of the contested decision. According to Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013, the ECB may carry out on-site inspections only at significant credit institutions. Under Article 6(5) of that regulation, a less significant credit institution is subject to direct supervision by the national competent authority, unless the ECB decides to take over direct supervision on the basis that the credit institution is significant.

121 The ECB, supported by the Commission, disputes those arguments.

122 It follows from the wording of Article 4(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013 that the ECB has exclusive competence to carry out the tasks stated in that provision in relation to 'all' credit institutions established in the participating Member States, without drawing a distinction between significant credit institutions and less significant institutions (see, to that effect, judgment of 8 May 2019, Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg v ECB, C‑450/17 P, EU:C:2019:372, paragraphs 37 and 38).

123 Under Article 6(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013, the ECB is to carry out its tasks within an SSM composed of the ECB and national competent authorities, and is to be responsible for the effective and consistent functioning of the SSM (judgment of 8 May 2019, Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg v ECB, C‑450/17 P, EU:C:2019:372, paragraph 39).

124 The national competent authorities assist the ECB in carrying out the tasks conferred on it by Regulation No 1024/2013, by a decentralised implementation of some of those tasks in relation to less significant credit institutions (judgment of 8 May 2019, Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg v ECB, C‑450/17 P, EU:C:2019:372, paragraph 41).

125 Article 6(5)(d) of Regulation No 1024/2013 provides that, with regard to the institutions referred to in paragraph 4 of that article, that is to say, less significant credit institutions, the ECB may at any time make use of the investigatory powers referred to in Articles 10 to 13 of that regulation, namely to send requests for information, conduct general investigations and conduct on-site inspections.

126 The fact that, in accordance with the provisions of the first subparagraph of Article 6(6) of Regulation No 1024/2013, the national competent authorities are to carry out, in a decentralised manner and under the supervision of the ECB, certain tasks set out in Article 4(1) of that regulation with regard to less significant credit institutions has no bearing on ECB's competence to exercise its investigatory powers with respect to those institutions, since those provisions are, according to their very wording, 'without prejudice' to paragraph 5 of Article 6 of that regulation, the relevant provisions of which have been set out in paragraph 125 above. Similarly, according to the second subparagraph of Article 6(6), the power of the national competent authorities, in accordance with their national law, to conduct on-site inspections in those institutions is also 'without prejudice' to Articles 10 to 13 of the regulation concerned, relating to the ECB's investigatory powers.

127 The ECB's power to conduct on-site inspections in less significant credit institutions is supported by Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013. That article provides that the ECB may carry out on-site inspections at the premises of the legal persons referred to in Article 10(1) of that regulation, point (a) of which refers to credit institutions established in the participating Member States, without drawing a distinction between significant and less significant institutions.

128 The fact, relied on by the applicant, that Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 provides that the ECB may carry out on-site inspections in any other undertaking included in supervision on a consolidated basis where the ECB is the consolidating supervisor in accordance with Article 4(1)(g) of that regulation does not alter that conclusion, since Article 12 merely adds to the legal persons referred to in Article 10(1) of that regulation other entities in which the ECB may conduct an on-site inspection.

129 Article 6(5)(d) of Regulation No 1024/2013, in so far as it confers power on the ECB to conduct an on-site inspection in a less significant credit institution, is also consistent with recital 16 of that regulation, according to which the ECB should be able to exercise supervisory tasks in relation to 'all' credit institutions, as well as with recital 47 of that regulation, according to which, in order to carry out its tasks effectively, the ECB should be able to conduct on-site inspections, 'where appropriate' in cooperation with national competent authorities.

130 Consequently, it follows from the provisions of Regulation No 1024/2013 referred to above that the ECB is competent to exercise, with regard to a less significant credit institution, the investigatory powers provided for in Articles 10 to 13 of that regulation, in particular the power to conduct an on-site inspection.

131 The fact that the ECB may conduct on-site inspections in less significant credit institutions is, moreover, expressly referred to in the second sentence of Article 138 of Regulation No 468/2014.

132 Furthermore, the ECB's power to conduct on-site inspections in less significant credit institutions is not invalidated by certain publications of that institution, such as the Guide to Banking Supervision published in November 2014, the Guide to On-site Inspections and Internal Model Investigations published in September 2018 or the public consultation conducted by the ECB prior to the adoption of the latter guide. In that regard, it is sufficient to note that those publications, which are not binding, as, moreover, each of them states, cannot in any way limit the competences conferred on the ECB by the EU legislature. Furthermore, none of those publications excludes the possibility of the ECB conducting on-site inspections in less significant credit institutions. On the contrary, the Guide to Banking Supervision (paragraph 75) and the document entitled 'LSI supervision within the SSM', published in November 2017 (pages 3 and 10), refer to that possibility.

133 The applicant's other arguments must be rejected.

134 First, the applicant is not entitled to submit, in order to establish that the ECB's power to conduct on-site inspections in less significant credit institutions is an 'anomaly' in the SSM, that the ECB cannot impose obligations on the entities concerned to remedy the shortcomings identified during inspections.

135 The competence conferred by the EU legislature on the ECB to conduct on-site inspections in less significant credit institutions is consistent with the creation of the SSM, which is composed of the ECB and national competent authorities, and with the control exercised by the ECB over the implementation by the national competent authorities, in relation to less significant credit institutions, of certain tasks laid down in Article 4(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013, which fall within its exclusive competence, but Article 6 of which allows for decentralised implementation (see, to that effect, judgment of 8 May 2019, Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg v ECB, C‑450/17 P, EU:C:2019:372, paragraph 49).

136 In accordance with the provisions of Article 6(5) of Regulation No 1024/2013, the ECB also has, in addition to the possibility, at any time, of making requests for information, general enquiries or on-site inspections in less significant credit institutions, a number of powers relating to the prudential supervision of those institutions, such as, for example, the power to request, on an ad hoc or continuous basis, information from the national competent authorities on the performance of their tasks or, if necessary to ensure consistent application of high supervisory standards, the power to decide, at any time, to exercise directly itself all the relevant powers for one or more less significant credit institutions. Article 6(6) of that regulation provides, moreover, that, although the national competent authorities maintain the powers, in accordance with national law, to obtain information and to carry out on-site inspections at the premises of less significant credit institutions, they are to inform the ECB of the measures taken and 'closely' coordinate those measures with the ECB.

137 Secondly, the applicant's assertion that the ECB realised that it was not competent to adopt the contested decision and, 'partly for this reason', decided, by a decision notified by letter of 1 March 2019, to classify the applicant as a significant entity is unfounded. No provision or principle prohibits the ECB from conducting an inspection at the premises of a less significant entity and from simultaneously or subsequently classifying that entity as a significant entity. Moreover, the applicant's assertion that the ECB realised that it was not competent is contradicted by the contested decision, which, on two occasions, states that the ECB is competent to adopt an inspection decision with regard to a less significant credit institution (see pages 1 and 4 of that decision).

138 The first plea in law must therefore be rejected as unfounded.

2. The seventh plea in law, alleging failure to state reasons

139 The applicant submits that the ECB failed to fulfil its obligation to state reasons, since the letter of 14 February 2019 does not in any way set out the reasons why the ECB decided to conduct an on-site inspection.

140 The ECB contends that the plea in law must be rejected.

141 The statement of reasons required inter alia by Article 296 TFEU must be appropriate to the measure at issue and must disclose in a clear and unequivocal fashion the reasoning followed by the institution which adopted the measure in such a way as to enable the persons concerned to ascertain the reasons for the measure and to enable the competent Court to exercise its power of review (judgment of 8 May 2019, Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg v ECB, C‑450/17 P, EU:C:2019:372, paragraph 85 and the case-law cited).

142 The requirement to state reasons must be assessed by reference to the circumstances of the case, in particular the content of the measure in question, the nature of the reasons given and the interest which the addressees of the measure, or other parties to whom it is of direct and individual concern, may have in obtaining explanations. It is not necessary for the reasoning to specify all the relevant facts and points of law, since the question whether the statement of reasons meets the requirements of Article 296 TFEU must be assessed with regard not only to its wording but also to its context and to all the legal rules governing the matter in question (see judgment of 8 May 2019, Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg v ECB, C‑450/17 P, EU:C:2019:372, paragraph 87 and the case-law cited).

143 The duty to state adequate reasons for acts of the EU institutions laid down in Article 296 TFEU is an essential procedural requirement which must be distinguished from the question whether the reasoning is well founded, which is concerned with the substantive legality of the measure at issue (see judgment of 10 July 2008, Bertelsmann and Sony Corporation of America v Impala, C‑413/06 P, EU:C:2008:392, paragraph 181 and the case-law cited).

144 As regards inspection decisions adopted pursuant to Article 12 of Regulation No 2014/2013, Article 143(2) of Regulation No 468/2014 provides:

'Without prejudice to Article 142 [of Regulation No 468/2014] and pursuant to Article 12(3) of [Regulation No 1024/2013], on-site inspections shall be conducted on the basis of an ECB decision, which shall at a minimum specify the following:

(a) the subject matter and the purpose of the on-site inspection; and

(b) the fact that any obstruction to the on-site inspection by the legal person subject thereto shall constitute a breach of an ECB decision within the meaning of Article 18(7) of [Regulation No 1024/2013], without prejudice to national law as laid down in Article 11(2) of [Regulation No 1024/2013].'

145 In the present case, the letter of 14 February 2019 notifying the applicant of the contested decision states that an inspection, based on Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 and Articles 143 to 146 of Regulation No 468/2014, will be carried out, in accordance with a decision of the Supervisory Board of 10 January 2019. It states that the purpose of that inspection is the credit risk and that it concerns the applicant and its group companies. It indicates that that inspection is scheduled for March 2019 and that the head of the inspection mission will contact the applicant to organise a first meeting.

146 It must be held that, in so far as that letter of 14 February 2019 states that the purpose of the on-site inspection is the credit risk, it does mention in an admittedly summary but sufficiently clear manner, in accordance with Article 143(2)(a) of Regulation No 468/2014, both the subject matter of the inspection, namely credit risk, and its purpose, namely the ECB's analysis of that risk. In that regard, the ECB was not under an obligation to mention in that letter that there was a suspicion of infringement, which, moreover, the applicant does not assert (see paragraphs 188 and 226 below).

147 The concept of credit risk is a fundamental concept of banking activity, which is unambiguous and is, in essence, the risk that a borrower will not repay their credit. It is referred to in Article 1 of Regulation No 575/2013, in Article 79 of Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OJ 2013 L 176, p. 338), and is subject, moreover, to Principle 17 of the Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision drawn up by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and published in September 2012 ('the Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision'), which are not mandatory, but constitute, in their own words, 'the de facto minimum standard for sound prudential regulation and supervision of banks and banking systems'.

148 It should also be noted that, during the meeting held on 5 March 2019, that is to say, several days before the start of the inspection, the head of the inspection mission provided clarifications on the inspection at issue, using a document handed over to the applicant. In particular, it specified the scope of the mission, entitled 'Credit risk and governance', detailing the content of the inspection as regards classification and provisioning, inventory tape (foreclosed assets sold), collateral valuation and funds (assets held for sale), data quality, governance and business model (see page 2 of that document).

149 The contested decision was also adopted in circumstances known to the applicant. The latter was in regular contact with the FCMC, which, for several years, had been closely following the credit risks to which the applicant was exposed, and the FCMC had adopted, in respect of the applicant, as indicated in paragraphs 9 and 12 above, prudential supervision decisions relating, inter alia, to those risks in 2016 and 2017. The applicant was in direct contact with the ECB, given that it had written to the ECB on 5 July and 12 September 2018 requesting it to intervene in its prudential supervision and given that the President of the Supervisory Board of the ECB had replied to the applicant, by letter of 8 October 2018, stating that she shared the FCMC's opinion that the applicant's situation required specific prudential supervision. The applicant was aware of all aspects of the arbitration proceedings, which it had itself brought. Lastly, it was informed of the procedure for the ECB to take over its direct prudential supervision, since the draft decision relating to that had been communicated to the applicant by the ECB's letter of 11 February 2019.

150 Consequently, even though the applicant did not have, on the date its action was brought, the draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council, which was confidential under Article 10.4 of Protocol No 4 on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the ECB (see, to that effect, judgment of 19 December 2019, ECB v Espírito Santo Financial (Portugal), C‑442/18 P, EU:C:2019:1117, paragraphs 43 to 46), it was sufficiently familiar with the grounds of the contested decision for the purposes of assessing its merits.

151 In addition, it should be noted that the applicant received a non-confidential version of the draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council following a measure of organisation of procedure adopted by the Court. That draft, the main grounds of which have been set out in paragraphs 23 to 27 above, sets out the recent history of supervision of the applicant and states that deficiencies and infringements of the applicable provisions, which it sets out in detail, were identified over the previous years and were not the subject of appropriate measures on the part of the applicant. It states that the ICSID recommendation prevents the FCMC from implementing all supervisory measures with regard to the applicant, that the ECB is preparing to take over direct prudential supervision of the applicant and that an on-site inspection will enable the ECB to conduct its own analysis of the applicant's situation. It adds that, in conjunction with the planned taking-over of direct supervision of the applicant, the ECB will then be in a position to take the supervisory measures necessary to ensure that the applicant complies with prudential requirements.

152 Thus, that communication enabled the applicant to obtain details of the grounds of the contested decision, on which it was given an opportunity to submit observations at the stage of the reply.

153 Consequently, the seventh plea in law must be rejected as unfounded.

3. The fifth plea in law, alleging infringement of the applicant's right to be heard

154 The applicant submits that the ECB infringed its right to be heard by not giving it an opportunity to comment on the planned on-site inspection before adopting the contested decision.

155 The ECB, supported by the Commission, disputes that argument.

156 As a preliminary point, the Court notes that, in support of the plea alleging infringement of the right to be heard, the applicant merely states briefly that it was not given an opportunity to comment on the planned on-site inspection before the contested decision was adopted.

157 Under Article 41(2) of the Charter, the right to good administration includes, inter alia, the right of every person to be heard, before any individual measure which would affect him or her adversely is taken.

158 In the present case, no provision of Regulation No 1024/2013 or of Regulation No 468/2014 provides that a decision as regards the inspection of a credit institution is to be preceded by the possibility for that institution to be heard. However, that fact is not, by itself, such as to relieve the ECB of its obligation to hear the entity to which an inspection decision is addressed prior to the adoption of that decision. The right to be heard, which is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Charter, is binding on the ECB without another text expressly providing for it.

159 However, in the first place, although Article 22 of Regulation No 1024/2013, entitled 'Due process for adopting supervisory decisions', provides, in paragraph 1, that the ECB is to give the persons who are the subject of supervisory decisions the opportunity of being heard in accordance with Article 4 and Section 2 of Chapter III, entitled 'Specific supervisory powers', Article 22 does not cover measures adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of that chapter, entitled 'Investigatory powers'.

160 Moreover, Article 145 of Regulation No 468/2014, entitled 'Procedure and notification of an on-site inspection', provides, in the first sentence of paragraph 1, that the ECB is to notify the legal person subject to an on-site inspection of the ECB decision and of the identity of the members of the on-site inspection team, at least five working days before the start of that inspection, but does not state that the person concerned has the right to be heard.

161 Above all, Article 31 of Regulation No 468/2014, entitled 'Right to be heard', expressly provides, in the last sentence of paragraph 1 of that article, that Section 1 of Chapter III of Regulation No 1024/2013 is not subject to the provisions of that article.

162 Accordingly, the applicable legislation provides that legal persons who are subject to one of the investigatory measures referred to in Section 1 of Chapter III of Regulation No 1024/2013, including an on-site inspection, are not entitled to be heard prior to the adoption of that measure.

163 By providing that the persons concerned are not to be heard before the adoption of an investigatory measure, the applicable legislation is consistent with the nature of such a measure, the sole purpose of which is to gather information (see, to that effect and by analogy, judgment of 26 June 1980, National Panasonic v Commission, 136/79, EU:C:1980:169, paragraph 21, and Opinion of Advocate General Wahl in Italmobiliare v Commission, C‑268/14 P, not published, EU:C:2015:697, point 119).

164 Furthermore, it follows from Article 22(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013 that decisions by which the ECB decides, where appropriate, to impose prudential measures in the light of information gathered during an investigation must be the subject of a procedure including the right of the persons concerned to be heard.

165 It should also be noted that the fact that an inspection procedure is carried out over a number of months, includes on-the-spot checks and a hearing of the undertaking concerned, the declarations of which are placed on the file, may establish that the undertaking concerned was heard, with full knowledge of the facts, during the inspection (see, to that effect, judgment of 18 December 2008, Sopropé, C‑349/07, EU:C:2008:746, paragraphs 45 and 46).

166 The Court notes that, in the present case, according to the presentation made by the head of the inspection mission on 5 March 2019, several meetings were to be arranged between the members of the inspection team and the applicant's executives on the relevant matters (see page 5 of that presentation). It is also apparent from that presentation that the sending of a draft inspection report and an 'exit' meeting were planned before the sending of a final report and the 'closing' meeting (see page 7 of that presentation).

167 It follows from the foregoing that a decision by the ECB to conduct an on-site inspection in a credit institution pursuant to Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 is not subject to the right of the entity concerned to be heard before the adoption of that decision.

168 It is after the decision to conduct an on-site inspection and before any adoption of a decision pursuant to Article 4 and Section 2 of Chapter III of Regulation No 1024/2013 that the ECB is required to give the persons concerned the opportunity to be heard.

169 For the sake of completeness, even if the ECB were required to hear the applicant before adopting the contested decision, it should be noted that an infringement of the rights of the defence, in particular the right to be heard, results in the annulment of the decision taken at the end of the administrative procedure in question only if, had it not been for such an irregularity, the outcome of the procedure might have been different (see judgment of 4 April 2019, OZ v EIB, C‑558/17 P, EU:C:2019:289, paragraph 76 and the case-law cited).

170 In the present case, it is not apparent from the documents in the file that, if the applicant had been heard before the contested decision was adopted, the outcome of the procedure might have been different. In that regard, the Court notes that the applicant does not make that argument and that the contested decision was adopted in a context known to the applicant, as stated in paragraph 149 above.

171 The fifth plea in law must therefore be rejected.

4. The second plea in law, alleging infringement of Article 12(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013 in that the contested decision was not necessary within the meaning of that provision, and the fourth plea in law, alleging breach of the principle of proportionality

172 In the second plea in law, the applicant submits that, under Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013, an on-site inspection must be necessary. However, the on-site inspection to which it was subject was a retaliatory measure by which the ECB showed that it does not tolerate any criticism. In the letter of 14 February 2019, the ECB did not clearly define the scope and purpose of the on-site inspection. It did not explain how an on-site inspection was necessary in order to analyse the credit risk. That risk has, however, been closely monitored by the FCMC for many years. All of the applicant's credit decisions were monitored by the FCMC and all credit decisions relating to a sum in excess of EUR 50 000 were subject to approval by the FCMC. For a long time, no change has been made to the applicant's credit portfolio without the FCMC's approval.

173 In the fourth plea in law, the applicant claims that the contested decision breaches the principle of proportionality. The ECB should have used the least intrusive means to achieve the objective pursued. The applicant was always prepared to provide the ECB and the FCMC with all necessary information. It has not been shown that an on-site inspection, in particular carried out by the ECB, could not have been avoided by means of other appropriate investigatory measures. The on-site inspections conducted by the ECB are more restrictive than those carried out by the national competent authorities, in particular because they are conducted by staff who do not speak the language of the country concerned. That is particularly true for Latvia, whose language is not widely spoken outside its borders. Moreover, the inspection timetable was abusive, given that, at the time of the inspection, the applicant carried out its annual audit with a third-party undertaking and the ECB refused to postpone the inspection by one month. The applicant was not able to complete its annual audit in good time and the FCMC imposed a fine on it for that reason.

174 The ECB, supported by the Commission, disputes those arguments.

175 In view of the links between the second and fourth pleas in law, it is appropriate to examine those two pleas together.

176 Under Article 12(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013, the ECB may conduct all necessary on-site inspections at the business premises of institutions subject to prudential supervision, including credit institutions established in the participating Member States.

177 The qualifier 'necessary' used in Article 12(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013 is consistent with the principle of proportionality, which requires that acts of the EU institutions be appropriate for attaining the legitimate objectives pursued by the legislation at issue and do not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives; when there is a choice between several appropriate measures, recourse must be had to the least onerous, and the disadvantages caused must not be disproportionate to the aims pursued (judgments of 22 January 2013, Sky Österreich, C‑283/11, EU:C:2013:28, paragraph 50, and of 6 September 2017, Slovakia and Hungary v Council, C‑643/15 and C‑647/15, EU:C:2017:631, paragraph 206).

178 The assessment of the proportionality of a measure must be reconciled with compliance with the discretion that may have been conferred on the EU institutions at the time it was adopted (see judgment of 8 May 2019, Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg v ECB, C‑450/17 P, EU:C:2019:372, paragraph 53 and the case-law cited). The ECB has a broad discretion when it adopts, as in the present case, a measure relating to the prudential supervision of a credit institution (see, to that effect, judgment of 8 May 2019, Landeskreditbank Baden-Württemberg v ECB, C‑450/17 P, EU:C:2019:372, paragraph 86).

179 In accordance with the case-law cited in paragraph 177 above, the need for and proportionality of an on-site inspection must be assessed in the light of the objectives pursued by the legislation.

180 In that regard, it should be noted that the objective of prudential supervision of credit institutions is to ensure the safety and soundness of those institutions, the stability of the financial system and the protection of depositors (see recitals 30 and 65 of Regulation No 1024/2013).

181 Sound management of credit risk by credit institutions is one of the principal objectives of prudential supervision, as is apparent from Article 1 of Regulation No 575/2013, Article 79 of Directive 2013/36 and, moreover, from Principle 17 of the Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision.

182 Furthermore, it should be noted that each credit institution is subject to 'ongoing' prudential supervision by the competent authorities (see recital 37 of Regulation No 1024/2013, recital 3 of Directive 2013/36 and recital 25 of Regulation No 575/2013).

183 The competent authorities have, in accordance with Articles 14 to 16 of Regulation No 1024/2013 and Article 104 of Directive 2013/36, powers enabling them to withdraw, from a credit institution, the authorisation necessary to carry on its business, to oppose the acquisition of a holding in that institution and to impose supervisory measures, in particular the strengthening of its governance, the improvement of its capital or liquidity situation, the restriction of economic activity, the divestment of activities or the removal of a member of a management body.

184 The competent authorities also have, in accordance with Articles 9 to 13 of Regulation No 1024/2013 and Article 65(3) of Directive 2013/36, investigatory powers enabling them to require all information necessary for them to carry out their tasks, including information to be provided at recurring intervals and in specified formats for supervisory and related statistical purposes, to conduct investigations and to carry out on-site inspections. Recital 47 of Regulation No 1024/2013 states that the ECB should be able to require all necessary information, and to conduct investigations and on-site inspections 'in order to carry out its tasks effectively'.

185 The competent authorities are to carry out, in accordance with Articles 97 and 99 of Directive 2013/36, a supervisory review and evaluation. They are to establish the frequency and intensity of the review and evaluation, having regard to the size, systemic importance, nature, scale and complexity of the activities of the institution concerned and taking into account the principle of proportionality. The review and evaluation is to be updated at least on an annual basis for institutions covered by the supervisory examination programme. That programme, which includes a plan for on-site inspections, covers institutions for which the results of stress tests or the outcome of the supervisory review and evaluation indicate significant risks to their financial soundness or indicate breaches of relevant provisions, institutions that pose a systemic risk to the financial system and any other institution if the competent authorities deem it to be necessary. The competent authorities may, if appropriate in the light of Article 97, implement measures such as an increase in the number or frequency of on-site inspections of the institution or the permanent presence of the competent authority at the institution.

186 Principles 9 and 10 of the Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision provide, moreover, that the supervisory authority is to deploy its resources in proportion to the risk profile and systemic importance of the bank. They state that that authority is to apply an appropriate mix of on-site and off-site checks. First, the supervisory authority is to analyse the prudential reports and statistical returns provided by the banks. Second, it verifies the reports provided by the banks, on demand and at regular intervals, independently, by carrying out on-site checks or by using external auditors. It is in regular contact with the board of directors, external administrators, and senior and middle management. It meets regularly with the senior management and board of directors. It may call on independent third parties but may not delegate its prudential responsibilities to third parties.

187 It follows from the recitals, provisions and principles referred to in paragraphs 182 to 186 above that credit institutions are subject to 'ongoing' prudential supervision, which is based on a combination of off-site checks, carried out on the basis of information regularly communicated to the competent authorities, and on the basis of on-site checks, enabling the information provided to be verified. Off-site checks cannot, in principle, replace on-site inspections, which, inter alia, enable the competent authority to verify independently the information declared by those institutions.

188 It should be pointed out that, unlike inspections carried out by the Commission on the basis of Article 20(4) of Regulation No 1/2003, the purpose of which is to detect infringements of Articles 101 and 102 TFEU, the purpose of the on-site inspections carried out by the ECB is to verify, in the context of ongoing supervision combining off-site and on-site checks, that credit institutions ensure sound management and coverage of their risks and that the information communicated is reliable, so that the implementation of those inspections is not subject to the existence of a suspicion of an infringement. Moreover, that is not disputed by the applicant.

189 The conclusion in paragraph 188 above is not contradicted by the wording of the second sentence of Article 13(2) of Regulation No 1024/2013, according to which, in its control of the proportionality of the coercive measures, the national judicial authority may ask the ECB for detailed explanations, in particular relating to the grounds the ECB has for suspecting that an infringement of the acts referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 4(3) of that regulation has taken place and the seriousness of the suspected infringement and the nature of the involvement of the person subject to the coercive measures.

190 The second sentence of Article 13(2) of Regulation No 1024/2013 concerns not the need for the on-site inspection, but the control of the proportionality of the planned coercive measures, in particular where it is found that a person opposes an inspection.

191 Lastly, it follows from the provisions, recitals and principles referred to in paragraphs 182 to 186 above that the frequency and intensity of on-site inspections are set taking into account the principle of proportionality.

192 In the present case, first, it is apparent from the contested decision that deficiencies and infringements of the applicable provisions were identified by the FCMC during the years preceding the inspection and that the applicant did not adopt appropriate measures to address the prudential concerns arising from those findings.

193 In that regard, it should be noted that, in support of the second and fourth pleas in law, the applicant does not put forward any argument to dispute the reality of the deficiencies and infringements of the applicable provisions referred to in the contested decision. In particular, it does not claim to have challenged, before the national courts, the FCMC's decisions adopted in February 2016 and August 2017, and does not explain the outcome of any court proceedings. It does not dispute the finding in the contested decision that it did not adopt appropriate measures to address the relevant prudential concerns.

194 Secondly, the applicant's argument that it was prepared to provide the ECB with any necessary information cannot succeed, since such a provision of information was not equivalent to the possibility for the ECB to verify on-site the integrity and reliability of the information transmitted and to have meetings on various subjects with the applicant's representatives.

195 Thirdly, the fact that the credit risk to which the applicant was exposed was closely monitored by the FCMC for a number of years, meaning in particular that all the applicant's decisions relating to an amount exceeding EUR 50 000 were subject to the FCMC's approval, does not call into question the need for the on-site inspection. That monitoring supports the attention paid by the FCMC to the credit risk and does not contradict the ground of the contested decision according to which the applicant did not take appropriate measures to remedy the already identified shortcomings and infringements of the applicable provisions.

196 Fourthly, the applicant is not entitled to claim that the contested decision is a retaliatory measure against it. In that regard, the statements by a member of the Administrative Board of Review of the ECB, made at a conference on 21 November 2017, according to which, in the event of a formal procedure initiated by a credit institution against it, the competent authority could react by intensifying its supervision, do not constitute sufficient probative evidence that the contested decision is a retaliatory measure, given that those brief statements were made 'personally', do not necessarily imply retaliation and are not detailed.

197 Fifthly, the argument that, in the letter of 14 February 2019 of the Director-General, the ECB did not clearly set out the scope and purpose of the on-site inspection and did not explain how an inspection was necessary in order to analyse the credit risk must be rejected. The question of whether that letter of 14 February 2019 contains an adequate statement of reasons has already been examined in paragraphs 145 to 150 above and concerns, in any event, a notification formality, provided for in Article 145 of Regulation No 468/2014, which must be distinguished from the question of whether the contested decision is well founded, which is concerned with the substantive legality of the contested measure, in accordance with the case-law referred to in paragraph 143 above.

198 Sixthly, the applicant's argument that the inspections conducted by the ECB are more onerous than those of the national competent authorities must be rejected as having no factual basis.

199 First, as the ECB submits, the inspections that it conducts and those carried out by the national competent authorities are based on the same standards. Moreover, that is not disputed by the applicant. Second, as the ECB also submits, the use of English by the inspection staff cannot be regarded in the present case as a significant constraint, given that the applicant's representatives were not obliged to communicate in that language with the members of the inspection team, and given that the applicant also subsequently chose English as the only language of communication with the ECB.

200 Furthermore, the fact that the ECB's inspections are more onerous than those of national competent authorities does not, in any event, establish that they are disproportionate.

201 Seventhly and lastly, it has not been shown that the timetable for the inspection was abusive. In that regard, the Court notes that the inspection began more than three weeks after receipt of the letter of 14 February 2019 and that it was preceded by a 'kick-off' meeting containing details of the sequence of the inspection, which enabled the applicant to take organisation measures before the start of the inspection. The fact that the applicant carried out the annual audit of its accounts during the inspection does not demonstrate that that timetable was abusive. On the one hand, to require the ECB to postpone an inspection solely on the ground that the credit institution has to carry out the annual audit of its accounts would risk undermining the objective of financial stability, when Article 6(5) of Regulation No 1024/2013 provides, on the contrary, that the ECB may 'at any time' exercise its power to carry out an on-site inspection. On the other, it has not been established that the inspection prevented the applicant from completing the annual audit of its accounts in good time. In that regard, it should be noted that, first, it is for credit institutions to take the necessary measures to comply with the statutory deadlines for the submission of their audited accounts, secondly, according to the FCMC's decision of 14 May 2019 imposing a penalty on the applicant, the latter had already recorded delays in the submission of its accounts in 2017 and, thirdly, the applicant's delay in submitting its audited annual accounts can also be explained, if necessary, by the lack of means used by the audit team.

202 In those circumstances, the ECB was fully entitled to take the view, in the exercise of its broad discretion, that an on-site inspection at the applicant's premises was necessary within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013, in order to carry out an examination of the credit risk to which the applicant was exposed, and, more broadly, to ensure the soundness of that institution, the stability of the financial system and the protection of depositors. Moreover, it has not been established that the ECB could have used a less onerous measure than the on-site inspection which it carried out or that the problems caused by that inspection measure were disproportionate to the objective pursued.

203 It follows from the foregoing that the second and fourth pleas in law must be rejected as unfounded.

5. The third plea in law, alleging infringement of Article 12(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013 in that the ECB did not properly exercise its discretion, and the sixth plea in law, alleging infringement of the ECB's obligation to examine and assess carefully and impartially all the relevant aspects of the individual case

204 In the third plea in law, the applicant claims that the ECB failed to take account of the discretionary nature of a decision to conduct an on-site inspection. It has not been demonstrated that the ECB exercised its discretion as to whether an on-site inspection was appropriate. The absence of any 'relevant' consideration is apparent from the very unusual nature of a decision by the ECB to conduct an on-site inspection at a less significant credit institution.

205 In the sixth plea in law, the applicant submits that the ECB failed to fulfil its obligation, in accordance with the case-law, to examine carefully and impartially all the 'relevant' aspects of the individual case. The ECB failed to take into consideration the extensive relevant information available to the FCMC concerning any credit risk.

206 The ECB, supported by the Commission, contends that the third and sixth pleas in law must be rejected.

207 As a preliminary point, it must be held that the third plea in law must be regarded as alleging an error of law, to the effect that the ECB did not exercise its discretion to decide whether an on-site inspection was appropriate, as required by Article 12(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013, which is apparent in particular from the fact that the Director-General's letter of 14 February 2019 does not mention any 'relevant' circumstance.

208 By its sixth plea in law, the applicant again raises a plea alleging an error of law, in that the contested decision is vitiated by a failure to examine carefully and impartially the 'relevant' aspects of the present case.

209 It is appropriate to examine those two pleas simultaneously, given that they both seek to criticise the ECB for having erred in law by not examining or by not assessing the relevant elements of the present case.

210 In that regard, it should be noted that, where an applicant raises pleas alleging errors of law of that nature, it is for the applicant to adduce evidence to support the conclusion that there was such an error.

211 In support of those pleas, the applicant submits, in summary form, that the Director-General's letter of 14 February 2019 is devoid of 'any relevant considerations'. The applicant states that an on-site inspection by the ECB is unusual in a less significant credit institution and that the ECB failed to take into account the large amount of information available to the FCMC regarding the credit risk to which the applicant was exposed.

212 However, it is apparent from the draft decision deemed adopted by the Governing Council, in particular its annex, that the ECB took into account the information available to the FCMC concerning the credit risk to which the applicant was exposed. It is also apparent that the ECB took account of the fact that the applicant was a less significant credit institution, finding on two occasions that that did not prevent the on-site inspection from being carried out, as noted in paragraph 137 above. Lastly, it follows that the ECB duly assessed whether an on-site inspection was appropriate and concluded that it indeed was, taking into account, in particular, the deficiencies and infringements of the applicable provisions which had been identified in previous years and the fact that the applicant had not taken appropriate measures to remedy them.

213 It follows from the foregoing, as from the response to the second and fourth pleas in law, that the applicant is not entitled to claim that the ECB did not examine the relevant circumstances of its situation or did not assess whether an on-site inspection was necessary in the light of those circumstances.

214 The third and sixth pleas in law must therefore be rejected as unfounded.

6. The eighth plea in law, alleging breach of the principles of the protection of legitimate expectations and legal certainty

215 The applicant submits that the contested decision breaches the principles of the protection of legitimate expectations and legal certainty because its scope and purpose are not clear. Given that the Director-General's letter of 14 February 2019 mentions only the credit risk, the applicant is not in a position to know the scope of the binding effect of the letter and to ascertain to what extent a failure to comply with a request by the inspection staff could be regarded as an obstruction. That letter even states that the scope of the inspection could be extended without any limit during that inspection. However, the Guide to Banking Supervision states that an on-site inspection must have a pre-defined scope. The questions raised by the inspection staff covered many areas of no relevance to the analysis of credit risk. Certain questions did not have a discernible prudential supervision objective, but belonged more to a thorough anti-money laundering investigation, an area in which the ECB is not the competent authority, even in relation to significant institutions. Moreover, even in the context of an anti-money laundering investigation, the request made to the applicant to provide information on all incoming and outgoing payments for all its customers over the previous two years would have been unreasonable.

216 The ECB, supported by the Commission, disputes those arguments.

217 The principle of legal certainty requires, inter alia, that rules of law be clear, precise and predictable in their effect, especially where they may have negative consequences for individuals and undertakings (see judgment of 30 April 2019, Italy v Council (Fishing quota for Mediterranean swordfish), C‑611/17, EU:C:2019:332, paragraph 111 and the case-law cited).

218 The right to rely on the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations, which is the corollary of the principle of legal certainty, extends to any individual in a situation where EU authorities have caused him or her to entertain legitimate expectations. In whatever form it is given, information which is precise, unconditional and consistent and comes from authorised and reliable sources constitutes assurances capable of giving rise to such expectations. However, a person may not plead infringement of the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations unless he or she has been given precise assurances by the administration (judgment of 30 April 2019, Italy v Council (Fishing quota for Mediterranean swordfish), C‑611/17, EU:C:2019:332, paragraph 112).

219 The contested decision states that the purpose of the inspection is an in-depth investigation into the risks, risk control and governance of the applicant, in order to assess, inter alia, its procedures, systems and the quality of its management, and that that inspection will focus primarily on the credit risk.

220 The fact that the letter from the Director-General of 14 February 2019 stated that the purpose of the on-site inspection was the credit risk does not breach the principles of legal certainty and the protection of legitimate expectations.

221 Credit risk is a fundamental concept of banking activity, as stated in paragraph 147 above, which is understood by those involved in that sector. Moreover, the scope of the inspection was explained in more detail at the meeting of 5 March 2019, several days before the inspection began. As stated in paragraph 33 above, the head of the inspection mission explained, using a document handed over to the applicant, the scope of the mission, entitled 'Credit risk and governance', namely classification and provisioning, inventory tape (foreclosed assets sold), collateral valuation and funds (assets held for sale), data quality, and governance and business model.

222 In those circumstances, the applicant is not entitled to claim that that letter of 14 February 2019, in so far as it referred to credit risk, was not clear and that, consequently, it could not ascertain to what extent a failure to comply with a request from the inspection staff could be regarded as an obstacle to the inspection.

223 Furthermore, the fact that the letter from the Director-General of 14 February 2019 stated that the scope of the inspection could be extended during the inspection and that, in that event, the applicant would be informed of the extension by the Head of Mission on behalf of the ECB does not breach the principles of legal certainty and the protection of legitimate expectations.

224 That letter of 14 February 2019 stated that the applicant would be informed in advance regarding such an extension of the scope of the inspection. It is therefore apparent from that letter that, if the applicant was not informed of an extension, the subject matter of the inspection would remain limited to credit risk.

225 As regards the applicant's argument that paragraph 69 of the Guide to Banking Supervision states that on-site inspections must have a predefined scope, it must be held that that was indeed the case for the inspection at issue, since it was focused on a specific risk.

226 Moreover, according to paragraph 73 of the Guide to Banking Supervision, on-site inspections may be 'full-scope', that is to say, cover a broad spectrum of risks and activities in order to provide a holistic view of the credit institution, or 'targeted', that is to say, focus on a particular part of the credit institution's business, or on a specific issue or risk, or 'thematic', that is to say, focus on one issue (for example, business area or types of transactions) across a group of peer credit institutions. It states that joint supervisory teams, which include ECB staff and national competent authorities, may request a thematic review of a particular risk control or of the governance process across institutions. It states that thematic reviews may also be triggered on the basis of macro-prudential and sectoral analyses that identify threats to financial stability on account of weakening economic sectors or the spread of risky practices across the banking sector.

227 The complaint based on the claim that, during the inspection, inspection staff requested the disclosure of information unrelated to the credit risk must be rejected as ineffective.

228 The conditions for the implementation of an inspection decision based on Article 12 of Regulation No 1024/2013 do not, as such, affect the lawfulness of that decision, given that they concern facts subsequent to that decision (see, to that effect, judgment of 28 January 2021, Qualcomm and Qualcomm Europe v Commission, C‑466/19 P, EU:C:2021:76, paragraph 82 and the case-law cited). The legality of such a decision cannot therefore depend on the manner in which the inspection staff implement the decision.

229 It should be noted that, where inspection staff request the disclosure of information going beyond the subject matter of the inspection, the entity concerned has the right to refuse to provide such information, unless the ECB, by using coercive measures, enforces the decision concerned.

230 If the ECB decides to adopt a decision imposing a sanction on a legal person for obstructing an inspection, pursuant to Article 18(7) of Regulation No 1024/2013, that decision may be the subject of an action before the General Court. In the context of such an action, the legal person concerned may claim, if it considers that it is entitled to do so, that the inspection staff requested the disclosure of information going beyond the subject matter of the inspection.

231 The entity concerned may also, without refusing a request to disclose information in the context of an inspection, raise objections to that disclosure and request the ECB not to use the information at issue on the ground that it does not fall within the scope of the subject matter of the inspection. A refusal by the ECB to accede to the legitimate requests of the legal person concerned is capable of rendering the ECB liable and, where appropriate, of vitiating the acts subsequently adopted by the ECB.

232 In any event, in support of its argument that the inspection staff requested the disclosure of information unrelated to the credit risk, the applicant refers, first of all, in a general manner, to Annex A.12, which contains requests for information sent in writing to the applicant by the inspection staff in March and April 2019. By merely stating that that annex, which is approximately 10 pages long, contains examples of questions unrelated to the credit risk, without identifying the relevant questions and without stating the reasons why those questions are irrelevant for the analysis of the credit risk, the applicant does not place the Court in a position to assess the merits of its argument (see, to that effect, judgment of 13 June 2013, Versalis v Commission, C‑511/11 P, EU:C:2013:386, paragraph 115).

233 Although the applicant goes on to submit specifically that the ECB requested it to provide information on the incoming and outgoing payments of the bank's clients during the previous two years, which is indeed apparent from Annex A.12, it does not state that it raised an objection to that written request by the inspection staff. However, even if that request went beyond the scope of the inspection or if it was disproportionate in view of the amount of information requested, it does not demonstrate that the contested decision itself, which is unambiguous, infringes the principles of the protection of legitimate expectations and legal certainty.

234 The eighth plea in law must therefore be rejected.

7. The ninth plea in law, alleging breach of the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination

235 The applicant submits that the contested decision infringes the principle of equal treatment. On-site inspections at less significant credit institutions are very rare and the ECB has not explained why it adopted that unusual measure in the present case. Account should also be taken of the fact that the ECB failed to answer the questions raised by the applicant in its letters of 5 July and 12 September 2018 concerning the problems of corruption and the hostile comments made publicly by Latvian officials. The ECB has not demonstrated that it conducted an investigation in that regard and has not acknowledged that A's public threats were inappropriate. The judgment of 26 February 2019, Rimšēvičs and ECB v Latvia (C‑202/18 and C‑238/18, EU:C:2019:139), did not resolve the problem, given that the Court of Justice annulled the measures imposed by the Republic of Latvia against A because the Republic of Latvia had not submitted evidence of the acts of corruption in good time. The contested decision was therefore adopted even though solid evidence supported the complaints of corruption and illegal conduct and the ECB refused to investigate and rectify that situation. The applicant concludes from this that, in the absence of any justification, the unusual treatment to which it was subject must be interpreted as a discriminatory act, bearing in mind that, in the meantime, A was reinstated in his post as Governor of the Central Bank of Latvia.

236 The ECB disputes the applicant's arguments.

237 The principle of equal treatment, as a general principle of EU law, requires comparable situations not to be treated differently and different situations not to be treated in the same way, unless such treatment is objectively justified (see judgment of 6 June 2019, P. M. and Others, C‑264/18, EU:C:2019:472, paragraph 28 and the case-law cited).

238 A breach of the principle of equal treatment as a result of different treatment presumes that the situations concerned are comparable, having regard to all the elements which characterise them (judgment of 16 December 2008, Arcelor Atlantique et Lorraine and Others, C‑127/07, EU:C:2008:728, paragraph 25).

239 In the first place, the applicant does not state which institutions were in a situation comparable to its own and were not treated in the same way.

240 In the second place, even if the applicant is complaining of discriminatory treatment in comparison with less significant credit institutions which were not the subject of an inspection conducted by the ECB itself, it should be noted that not only does the ECB have the power to conduct inspections in less significant credit institutions, but that it has in fact done so in institutions other than the applicant, as the ECB contends and as, moreover, the applicant acknowledges.

241 Although it is apparent from the documents in the file that the inspections conducted by the ECB itself in less significant credit institutions are indeed considerably less frequent than those carried out by the ECB in institutions considered to be significant, it must be held that the grounds of the contested decision, in particular the ground that the ICSID recommendation prevented the FCMC from implementing all supervisory measures in respect of the applicant, are such as to explain how the applicant's situation was a particular one, and therefore not comparable to the situations of other less significant credit institutions not subject to an on-site inspection by the ECB and, therefore, why the ECB decided in the present case to carry out such an inspection itself.

242 If the applicant is complaining of discriminatory conduct in comparison with credit institutions the main shareholder of which, unlike the applicant, did not complain of acts of corruption, it must be held that it is apparent from the grounds of the contested decision that the latter is not based on the existence of such a complaint.

243 In addition, first, it should be noted that (i) the criminal investigation which gave rise to A being charged concerns not the applicant, but a third-party Latvian bank, and (ii) as regards the acts of corruption complained of by CR, the applicant states, without providing further details, that the investigation is ongoing.

244 Secondly, although the applicant considers that the ECB was under an obligation to conduct an investigation into the acts of corruption complained of by CR, the ECB is fully entitled to argue that it is not competent itself to conduct an investigation into such acts and that it cooperates in that regard with the national competent authorities.

245 Moreover, even if the ECB made an error by not conducting an investigation into the acts of corruption complained of by CR, or into the comments made by A in respect of the applicant, it has not been demonstrated that that error was such as to render unlawful the contested decision in which a conclusion is reached not on whether it is appropriate to conduct such an investigation, but on the appropriateness of carrying out an on-site inspection.

246 Thirdly, it should be noted that the contested decision appears to respond in part favourably to the applicant's requests which are set out in its letters of 5 July and 12 September 2018 and referred to in paragraph 18 above, since the effect of that decision was that the ECB would intervene more closely in the prudential supervision of the applicant.

247 Consequently, since the contested decision is not contrary to the principle of equal treatment, the ninth plea in law must be rejected as unfounded.

8. The tenth plea in law, alleging infringement of Article 19 and recital 75 of Regulation No 1024/2013 and misuse of powers

248 The applicant submits that Article 19 and recital 75 of Regulation No 1024/2013 require the ECB to carry out the tasks entrusted to it irrespective of any undue political influence. ECB decisions must not be influenced by any non-prudential considerations.

249 The applicant states that the contested decision is a retaliatory measure adopted because it and its shareholders complained of illegal conduct by a member of the Governing Council of the ECB. That is apparent from the decision by which the ECB decided to take over the direct prudential supervision of the applicant, the sole reason for which was the applicant's initiation of arbitration proceedings, that is to say, the legitimate exercise of a legal remedy. That is also apparent from the letter of 14 February 2019 from the Director-General, who did not provide any reasons in support of the unusual decision to conduct an on-site inspection in a less significant credit institution.

250 The applicant submits that account should be taken of the ECB's failure to respond to its attempts to engage in a dialogue on the problems of corruption, the unfair regulatory treatment to which it was subjected and the hostile and inappropriate comments which were made publicly by Latvian officials, in particular the threat made by A that there would be a withdrawal of authorisation. Those corruption problems are widely recognised, including by the Latvian authorities, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the United States of America. In February 2018, those corruption problems led to A's detention and to security measures, which in practice prevented A from performing his duties as Governor of the Central Bank of Latvia and as a member of the Governing Council of the ECB. The ECB's only reaction was to bring an action before the Court of Justice (Case C‑238/18) in order to defend its independence against alleged interference by the Republic of Latvia. The ECB took no steps to investigate and rectify the problems at issue in order to restore confidence in the regulatory process. In response to the ECB's action, the Republic of Latvia confirmed that there was evidence proving A's acts of corruption, but did not provide that evidence. The applicant submits that, in the present case, it is for the ECB, and not the applicant, to prove that prudential supervision is carried out in a lawful manner.

251 The applicant concludes from this that, in the present case, the ECB did not investigate serious issues relating to the quality of the prudential supervision, but adopted the unusual decision to conduct an on-site inspection in a less significant credit institution without providing any reasons whatsoever. That should be interpreted as conveying the message that criticism of the regulatory authorities leads to heavy retaliation.

252 The applicant requests the General Court to order the ECB and the Republic of Latvia to disclose all relevant correspondence between the ECB and the FCMC so that the real reasons for the contested decision can be determined.

253 The ECB disputes that line of argument.

254 Under Article 19(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013, when carrying out the tasks conferred on it by that regulation, the ECB and the national competent authorities acting within the SSM are to act independently and the members of the Supervisory Board and the steering committee are to act independently and objectively in the interest of the European Union as a whole and are neither to seek nor take instructions from the institutions or bodies of the European Union, from any government of a Member State or from any other public or private body.

255 Recital 75 of that regulation states that, in order to carry out its supervisory tasks effectively, the ECB should exercise the supervisory tasks conferred on it in full independence, in particular free from undue political influence and from industry interference which would affect its operational independence.

256 A measure is vitiated by misuse of powers only if it appears, on the basis of objective, relevant and consistent evidence, to have been taken solely, or at the very least primarily, for purposes other than those for which the power in question was conferred or with the aim of evading a procedure specifically prescribed by the FEU Treaty for dealing with the circumstances of the case (judgments of 14 December 2004, Swedish Match, C‑210/03, EU:C:2004:802, paragraph 75, and of 8 December 2020, Hungary v Parliament and Council, C‑620/18, EU:C:2020:1001, paragraph 82).

257 In the first place, in order to attempt to demonstrate that the contested decision is a retaliatory measure adopted because the applicant and its shareholders complained of the unlawful conduct by a member of the Governing Council of the ECB, the applicant relies on the grounds of the ECB's decision, notified by letter of 1 March 2019, classifying the applicant as a significant institution subject to direct prudential supervision by the ECB.

258 However, even if that decision of the ECB were unlawful, it would have no effect on the lawfulness of the contested decision, which is not based on the decision relied on by the applicant.

259 In addition, contrary to what the applicant claims, the ECB's decision to take over direct prudential supervision of the applicant was not adopted on the ground that the applicant initiated the arbitration proceedings. In that decision, the ECB relied not on the initiation of those proceedings, as such, but, in essence, on the ground that, following the ICSID recommendation made in the context of those proceedings, the FCMC considered itself to have no capacity to carry out high-level supervision of the applicant and had requested the ECB to take over the prudential supervision of the applicant.

260 The applicant is therefore not entitled to claim that the ECB's decision to take over the direct prudential supervision of the applicant is based on the legitimate exercise of a legal remedy, namely the initiation of the arbitration proceedings, or, in any event, that the ECB's reasons demonstrate its desire to adopt retaliatory measures against the applicant for having initiated such proceedings.

261 In the second place, the contested decision sets out the grounds on which the ECB decided to conduct an on-site inspection at the applicant's premises.

262 It is apparent from those grounds that the contested decision was adopted with an aim consistent with prudential legislation. In so far as the contested decision is based on deficiencies and infringements relating to prudential requirements identified over previous years, it is consistent with the objective of financial stability. In so far as the ECB took account of the fact that the ICSID recommendation prevented the FCMC from implementing all the supervisory measures in respect of the applicant and decided itself to conduct an on-site inspection at the applicant's premises, it did not pursue an objective unrelated to its prudential supervision mission, but merely implemented, taking into account that recommendation, a form of prudential supervision expressly provided for in Article 6(5)(d) of Regulation No 1024/2013.

263 Furthermore, it is apparent from the response to the second and fourth pleas in law that the ECB did not misconstrue the scope of its discretion in taking the view that an on-site inspection was necessary within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Regulation No 1024/2013 and consistent with the principle of proportionality, which is an additional factor in support of the finding that the ECB did not vitiate its decision by a misuse of powers.

264 In the third place, for the same reasons as those stated in paragraphs 243 to 245 above, the applicant's argument that the ECB did not open an investigation into the acts of corruption complained of by CR or into the statements made by A following his arrest is not probative evidence capable of demonstrating that the ECB's aim, in adopting the contested decision, was to take a retaliatory measure against the applicant in relation to the reporting of those acts of corruption.

265 In the fourth place, as regards the alleged unfair regulatory treatment associated with the acts of corruption which it complains of, the applicant does not explain precisely which administrative measures are, in its view, vitiated by illegality or, in any event, how the unlawfulness of those acts, even if demonstrated, is such as to render the contested decision itself unlawful.

266 In the fifth place, although the applicant claims that A was a member of the Governing Council of the ECB, the contested decision was adopted on 21 January 2019, whereas, according to the applicant, on that date, the security measures adopted by the KNAB on 19 February 2018 in practice prevented A from performing his duties as a member of the Governing Council of the ECB and from sitting within that body.

267 Lastly, in the light of the considerations set out in paragraphs 257 to 266 above, there is no need to grant the applicant's request that the Court order the ECB and the Republic of Latvia to disclose 'all relevant correspondence between the ECB and the FCMC [concerning the applicant] so [as] to determine the true motivation behind the Contested Decision'.

268 The Court has before it the information enabling it to resolve the present dispute and considers, inter alia, that the grounds of the contested decision are apparent from that decision.

269 Thus, it is not apparent from the documents in the file that the contested decision was adopted in breach of Article 19 of Regulation No 1024/2013. Nor does it appear, on the basis of a body of objective, relevant and consistent evidence, that the contested decision was adopted with the aim of retaliation against the applicant in relation to the complaints as to A's allegedly illegal conduct or that the contested decision is, for that reason, vitiated by a misuse of powers.

270 The tenth plea in law must therefore be rejected as unfounded.

271 It follows from all of the foregoing that the action must be dismissed.

VI. Costs

272 Under Article 134(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the unsuccessful party is to be ordered to pay the costs if they have been applied for in the successful party's pleadings. Since the applicant has been unsuccessful, it must be ordered to pay the costs incurred by the ECB, in accordance with the form of order sought by the ECB.

273 The Commission shall bear its own costs, in accordance with Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure.

On those grounds, THE GENERAL COURT (Fourth Chamber, Extended Composition)

hereby:

1. Dismisses the action;

2. Orders PNB Banka AS to bear its own costs and pay those incurred by the European Central Bank (ECB);

3. Orders the European Commission to bear its own costs.

Gervasoni

Madise

Nihoul

Frendo

Martín y Pérez de Nanclares

Delivered in open court in Luxembourg on 7 December 2022.

E. Coulon

S. Papasavvas

Registrar

President

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020230405ej44000ek


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10886
President Gitanas Nausėda: Seimas Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen: Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Justina Vaišvilaitė
5791 字
2023 年 4 月 6 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10886 (95292) THURSDAY MORNING, APRIL 6

 

NAUSĖDA SAYS POLITICAL OPPONENTS ARE AFTER HIM WITH CERTAIN CAMPAIGNS

 

Vilnius, April 6 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda believes he is a target of "certain campaigns” carried out by political opponents who are after him, with the presidential election nearing.

The president said that on a television broadcast when speaking of the recent news that he had not disclosed his ties with the Communist party.

"If it were just me, you would consider it to be my subjective opinion. But I have the impression that, as we approach the 2024 elections, this state of what I call the hunting state is already becoming very systematic, and that the actions that have been recently taken are, however, probably projected into 2024. Although I have neither decided nor announced that I will run [in the election – ELTA],” Nausėda told TV3 broadcast Dėmesio centre on late Wednesday.

"Those parties that may have had a reserved attitude towards a president not a member of the conservative party from the very start, they may in fact be aiming to carry out certain campaigns that would weaken the position of the incumbent president, perhaps due to a lack of candidates or a lack of competitors that they see,” he noted.

The president called on his critics and the conservative party to "turn to the people” and not to seek political dividends by antagonizing the society.

"We are looking forward to the NATO summit, we are looking forward to other very important events that will take place in Lithuania. And what is probably the least needed, or what could be the most welcome thing for the people in the corridors of Moscow, is that we start bombing each other now. My wish is that we return to normal dialogue,” the head of state said.

 

NAUSĖDA SAYS JOINING COMMUNIST PARTY WAS MISTAKE OF HIS YOUTH

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – It has transpired that President Gitanas Nausėda had concealed becoming a member of the Lithuanian Communist Party (LKP) in 1988. The head of state says he joined the party because he was pursuing a career in research.

"In 1987, finishing my economics studies in Vilnius University, I wanted to dedicate my life to science, I desired for a career as a researcher. Soon after graduation, I was enticed to join the party for better opportunities striving for a scientific career. I considered this for some time before finally agreeing. I was an ambitious and stupidly stubborn young man. I even disregarded my mother who disapproved of the move,” Nausėda said in a comment sent to the news agency ELTA.

The president stressed that the initiative group of Sąjūdis, the reform movement of Lithuania, was founded at the same time and when its mass rallies began he participated in the national revival movement but did not take any part in the activities of the Communist Party he had joined recently.

As reported, journalist Dovydas Pancerovas announced on 5 April that archives released a new collection of documents and Nausėda’s file was discovered among them, including the application to join the Communist Party in 1988.

The president had concealed this from the Lithuanian public before the 2019 presidential election, as it was not mandatory to provide information about past membership in political parties or organisations.

The journalist noted that unlike Nausėda, former president Dalia Grybauskaitė had disclosed her ties to the Communist Party.

 

SEIMAS SPEAKER VIRTUALLY MEETS WITH UKRAINIAN COUNTERPART

 

Vilnius, April 6 (ELTA) – Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen on Wednesday had a remote meeting with her Ukrainian counterpart Ruslan Stefanchuk.

The officials discussed Ukraine’s preparations for negotiations on European Union (EU) membership and prospects for NATO membership.

Čmilytė-Nielsen and assured Stefanchuk that Lithuania will continue to support the Ukrainian people’s struggle for freedom, European and democratic future.

"Mr Stefanchuk said that harmonisation of the legal system between Ukraine and the EU is now high on the agenda. We discussed the need to continue coordinating efforts on sanctions and to isolate Russia internationally, including the ban on its athletes together with Belarusian athletes from international competitions,” Čmilytė-Nielsen said after the meeting.

The head of Lithuanian parliament invited the chairman of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine to the summit of NATO parliament speakers to be held in Vilnius on 1-3 June. Stefanchuk promised to attend the meeting.

"I told my colleague that Lithuania has ambitious goals on the agenda of the Vilnius summit, including the future of Ukraine’s NATO membership, and that these goals will be reflected in a special resolution to be discussed by the Seimas,” Čmilytė-Nielsen said.

 

SEIMAS INTRODUCED ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIVE MEASURES AIMED AT ENSURING INTERESTS OF NATIONAL SECURITY OF LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – In response to the military aggression in Ukraine and in order to protect the interests of Lithuania’s national security and foreign policy, the Seimas approved the Law on Imposing Restrictive Measures Regarding the Military Aggression Against Ukraine, reports parliament’s press service.

The Law defines the content of restrictive measures; entities subject to the restrictive measures and the criteria applied to these entities; the period of application of restrictive measures; review of the duration of the restrictive measures; exemptions from the implementation of restrictive measures and other provisions.

"We have worked out a strong instrument for imposing national sanctions. This instrument will ensure that the Russian and Belarusian societies assume their responsibility for the war and aggression in Ukraine and that potential threats and risks to the national security of Lithuania are mitigated,” said Laurynas Kasčiūnas, chair of the Seimas Committee on National Security and Defence, to the Press Office of the Office of the Seimas.

Article 3 of the Law on Imposing Restrictive Measures Regarding the Military Aggression Against Ukraine lays down the following restrictive measures:

- The receipt of visa applications from Russian and Belarusian nationals at the Lithuanian visa services abroad (except where this is mediated by the Lithuanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs) and the receipt of applications for the issue of national visas via an external service provider abroad shall be suspended;

- The receipt of applications of Russian nationals for the issue of a temporary residence permit in Lithuania via an external service provider abroad (except for the cases mediated by an institution authorised by the Government) and in Lithuania shall be suspended, unless Russian nationals hold a valid Schengen or national visa issued by the Lithuanian visa service abroad or in Lithuania, or a residence permit issued in Lithuania, or a residence permit issued by another EU Member State;

- Russian nationals crossing the external border of the European Union into the territory of Lithuania shall be subject to an additional detailed individual screening on the grounds of the threat their entry poses to Lithuania’s national security, public policy, public order, domestic security, public health or international relations, unless they meet the conditions for entry laid down in the Schengen Borders Code and at least one of the additional conditions laid down in the law (as set out in the notice below);

- The receipt of applications of Russian and Belarusian nationals for the status of an e-resident of Lithuania is suspended; and the validity of valid electronic identification certificates and qualified certificates for electronic signature entered in the e-resident’s electronic identification and electronic signature means issued to Russian and Belarusian nationals shall be suspended, unless Russian and Belarusian nationals hold a permanent or temporary residence permit in Lithuania;

- The right of Russian nationals and legal entities established or controlled by them, as set out in the Law on Competition, to acquire, by the right of ownership, immovable property located in the territory of Lithuania shall be suspended, unless a Russian national has been issued a temporary residence permit in Lithuania or a permanent residence permit in Lithuania or where a Russian national acquires the right of ownership to immovable property by inheritance;

- The right of Russian and Belarusian nationals to import/export cash in the Ukrainian Hryvnia to/from the territory of Lithuania shall be suspended.

The restrictive measure referred to in Article 3(2) of the Law shall apply from 1 July 2023 until 2 May 2024.

The Law shall enter into force on 3 May 2023 and shall remain in force until 2 May 2024.

If deemed necessary, the Government may, at least 3 months prior to the expiry of the period of application of restrictive measures, address the Seimas with a recommendation to extend the period of their validity.

The Law was adopted by 76 votes in favour, 13 votes against, and 34 abstentions.

 

NATO MINISTERIAL MEETING INSPIRES HOPE ALLIANCE WILL BE ABLE TO AGREE ON A PATH TO UKRAINE’S MEMBERSHIP – LANDSBERGIS

 

Vilnius, April 6 (ELTA) – On Tuesday and Wednesday, Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis participated in a North Atlantic Council (NAC) meeting at the level of Foreign Affairs Ministers in Brussels, the Foreign Ministry reports.

"This meeting of NATO Ministers of Foreign Affairs inspires hope that the Alliance will be able to agree on a path to Ukraine’s membership. Ukraine’s ambition is clear. It is to join NATO when conditions allow. It is the duty of all of us to apply the most appropriate political instruments to help Ukraine step on a clear path to NATO membership already in 2008,” Landsbergis said after the meeting.

Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, who attended the NATO-Ukraine Commission meeting, reiterated that Ukraine’s ambition was to join NATO. Kuleba also expressed hope that the NATO summit in Vilnius would identify steps to bring Ukraine closer to accession.

Landsbergis also met with General Christopher G. Cavoli, Supreme Allied Commander Europe.

"As the Vilnius NATO summit is approaching, together with the General, we agreed that Russia remained a long-term threat to Lithuania and the Alliance. Thus, a comprehensive set of measures is needed to counter it,” Landsbergis said.

During the session with Indo-Pacific partners and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell, foreign ministers discussed threats posed by Russia and China and the necessary steps to boost the Alliance’s and its allies’ capabilities to counter these threats.

During the session with Indo-Pacific partners and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell, foreign ministers discussed threats posed by Russia and China and the necessary steps to strengthen the capabilities of the Alliance and its allies to counter these threats.

It was the first meeting of NATO Ministers of Foreign Affairs with the participation of Finland as a full-fledged member of the Alliance.

 

AT VILNIUS SUMMIT UKRAINE NEEDS A CLEAR PLAN FOR ITS PATH TO NATO – DEFMIN

 

Kharkiv, April 5 (ELTA) – Minister of National Defence of Lithuania Arvydas Anušauskas, who visited Kharkiv and met with Ukraine’s Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov, emphasises that Ukraine needs not only military but also political support.

"The upcoming NATO Summit in Vilnius was the main topic of our conversations. It is my belief that in Vilnius a clear response must be given as regards Ukraine’s path to NATO and guidelines for this path. My colleague [Reznikov] confirmed Ukraine’s resolve to expend maximum effort in the time remaining until the Vilnius Summit to have a clear plan as to what its overall relations with the Alliance will look like after the meeting,” Anušauskas told the news agency ELTA.

The NATO Summit in Vilnius is scheduled for July. Lithuania’s defence minister emphasised that NATO countries are Ukraine’s main military supporters providing the majority of weapons and training Ukrainian soldiers. At the latest meeting Lithuania announced another military aid package for Ukraine valued at EUR 41 million, including all-terrain vehicles, trucks, other types of transport as well as ammunition for artillery, light weapons and grenade launchers.

Minister Anušauskas visited Ukraine for the fourth time since Russia’s full-scale invasion in February 2022 and personally transferred anti-drone equipment and other weaponry. Lithuania’s military aid to Ukraine since the invasion is nearing EUR 0.5 billion.

Lithuania is also seeking to step up political support named by the minister. The Seimas is drafting a resolution encouraging NATO to directly and officially invite Ukraine to join the Alliance.

However, politicians from Lithuania, Ukraine and other allied countries admit that at the moment the geopolitical context is not too favourable for such aspirations of Ukraine and its strongest supporters. Currently Kyiv is avoiding blunt calls to accept Ukraine to NATO and instead highlights the need of military assistance of the West and requests NATO to set out guidelines for joining the Alliance, which would define the format of relations between Ukraine and NATO. Being able to address this directly and firmly, Lithuania and her politicians are supporting Ukraine by maintaining this political narrative in political and public discourse of the West.

Reznikov, who invited Anušauskas to visit Kharkiv, told ELTA that Lithuania’s support for Ukraine is crucial. Ukraine’s defence minister noted that Anušauskas was the first foreign defence minister to visit Kharkiv to see for himself how heroic locals defended their city and region, and how they were not only fighting but also continuing to build peaceful lives.

Reznikov stressed it was critical for Lithuania’s defence minister to relay the message to other allies about what he has seen and heard in Kharkiv, expressing hope that other allied ministers would also visit the city in eastern Ukraine. The minister again expressed gratitude to the Lithuanian people, parliament and to Minister Anušauskas personally for their support.

Asked what the officials discussed, Minister Reznikov said they addressed the prospects of creating a new global security architecture.

In Kharkiv region, Minister Anušauskas also met with Head of Kharkiv Regional Military Administration Oleg Sinegubov, Mayor of Kharkiv Ihor Terechov and Head of the Defence Forces of the city of Kharkiv Brigadier General Serhii Melnyk.

General Melnyk said that a small area of Kharkiv region still remained under the Russian occupation after Ukraine’s 2022 autumn counteroffensive. Whereas the area around the liberated city of Kupiansk remains a "hot spot” as Russia has 40,000 troops, various heavy equipment and long-range artillery there and is still hoping to break through in order to surround Ukrainian troops in Donetsk region, where heavy battles are ongoing.

 

DEFMIN HANDS OVER PART OF LATEST SUPPORT PACKAGE WHILE ON VISIT IN UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas on Tuesday visited Ukraine and handed over part of the latest support package, said the Ministry of National Defence.

"The next package of military assistance to Ukraine will be worth of approx. EUR 41 million, it will encompass equipment, new acquisitions, contributions to international funds,” said Minister Anušauskas.

Anušauskas visited Kharkiv Oblast with Minister of Defence of Ukraine Oleksii Reznikov, met with Head of Kharkiv Regional Military Administration Oleg Sinegubov, Mayor of Kharkiv Ihor Terechov and head of the Defence Forces of the city of Kharkiv Brigadier General Serhii Melnyk. 250 thousand of hectares of Kharkiv Oblast is still infested with mines and the estimated USD 9 billion is necessary for rebuilding the city.

The minister also visited a military hospital, villages and towns 20 km away from the border with Russia that were destroyed by the invaders. The aggressor continues delivering fire at border regions.

Ministers of defence of Lithuania and Ukraine discussed further bilateral cooperation, the training assistance delivered by the Lithuanian military, Ukraine’s defence reform and preparation for the NATO Summit in Vilnius in July. 

"Our intention is to send a strong message to Ukraine together with the like-minded nations at the NATO Summit about the membership prospects. We cannot leave Ukraine without a clear path,” stated Anušauskas.

 

RUSSIA POSES LONG-TERM THREAT TO LITHUANIA AND NATO – FORMIN

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis on Wednesday met with General Christopher G. Cavoli, commander of the United States European Command.

"As the NATO Summit in Vilnius is approaching we discussed together with the general that Russia remains a long-term threat not only to Lithuania but to the entire Alliance,” the head of Lithuania’s diplomacy said after the meeting.

The minister and the general also discussed the implementation of decisions adopted at the NATO Summit in Madrid in 2022 and actions crucial for enhancing defence and resilience on NATO’s eastern flank.

 

GOVT APPROVES PROPOSED BANK SOLIDARITY CONTRIBUTION

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – On Wednesday, 5 April, the Government approved the temporary solidary contribution for banks. The proposal made by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Lithuania was approved by all ministers but Aušrinė Armonaitė, minister of the economy and innovation. The bill is expected to be presented in parliament at the end of April.

Minister Armonaitė said the new tax on banks would make the investment environment more unpredictable and hinder attraction of new financial institutions to Lithuania.

President of the Lithuanian Banking Association (LBA) Eivilė Čipkutė also criticised the solidarity contribution arguing that the law would lead to unlawful state assistance to other sectors that also posted exceptionally high profits but would not be taxed.

However, Chairman of the Board of the Bank of Lithuania Gediminas Šimkus and Minister of Finance Gintarė Skaistė disputed these arguments. Speaking about the investment environment, they emphasised the importance of energy security, national defence and the geopolitical situation, which, the minister said, was also highlighted by investors.

Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė stated, "Security is the only universal public good that cannot be purchased in the market and which can be ensured only by the state.”

The temporary solidarity contribution would be paid by credit institutions and their branches after they posted unexpectedly high net interest income. The proceeds would be used to fund military mobility and military infrastructure projects.

It is expected to collect EUR 130 million in 2023, EUR 230 in 2024 and EUR 50 in 2025. New credit agreements would be exempt from the contribution.

The Bank of Lithuania announced on 3 April that the banking sector earned EUR 468 million profit in 2022, by EUR 140 million or 42.7% more than in 2021. Net interest income was by EUR 291 million or 55.9% greater than in 2021 and totalled EUR 811 million in 2022.

 

LITHUANIA LAUNCHES INVESTIGATION INTO INT’L SANCTION CIRCUMVENTION

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian Transport Safety Administration (LTSA) has transferred to the Financial Crime Investigation Service (FNTT) data on Cessna 172, a single-engine aircraft, which sought to fly from Lithuania to Russia in violation of international sanctions.

The FNTT will have to examine the details regarding the aircraft and its planned flight from the point of view of circumvention of international sanctions, and has already launched a pre-trial investigation.

The LTSA collected the official information and documents concerning the flight in cooperation with the Danish Civil Aviation Authority.

On 16 March, the Danish registered aircraft Cessna 172, piloted by a Russian citizen, flew from Sweden to Lithuania’s Palanga airport. Following EU legislation, internal EU flights did not require permits from Sweden or Lithuania, thus the plane was able to travel to Palanga in western Lithuania.

However, when the plane landed and the Russian citizen asked for ground services, it transpired that he planned to continue flying to Pskov, Russia. Lithuanian authorities reacted quickly and prohibited the flight. The plane is not allowed to leave Palanga airport until law enforcement examines all the details regarding the flight.

EU regulations bar granting permission to take off, land or cross EU territory for Russian-registered aircraft and aircraft owned, chartered or otherwise controlled by Russian entities and individuals.

Violation of international sanctions enforced in Lithuania is punishable by a fine, an arrest or a custodial sentence of up to 5 years.

Public broadcaster LRT reported that a Russian network existed to circumvent sanctions and purchase aircraft from the EU. The scheme includes companies in Turkey, Kirgizstan, Italy and Russia. A Russian citizen, who had a residence permit in Lithuania, sought to fly with the Cessna aircraft to Russia. Although the plan is still in Palanga airport, yet the Russian man has disappeared.

 

FOUR IRREGULAR MIGRANTS TRIED TO CROSS BORDER LAST DAY

 

Vilnius, April 6 (ELTA) – On Wednesday, border guard officers stopped four foreign nationals attempting to enter Lithuania from Belarus at unauthorised locations, the State Border Guard Service (VSAT) reports.

Latvia denied entry to 33 foreigners trying to cross into the country illegally from Belarus last day, while Polish border guards pushed back 106 irregular migrants on Tuesday.

According to the VSAT, this year, by 4 April, 694 migrants tried to access Lithuania from Belarus unlawfully.

The number of irregular crossing attempts prevented stood at 11,211 in 2022.

 

LITHUANIA’S CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT AT EUR 0.6BN IN Q4 2022 – EUROSTAT

 

Luxembourg, April 5 (ELTA) – In the fourth quarter of 2022, the EU seasonally adjusted current account of the balance of payments recorded a surplus of €10.5 billion (0.3% of GDP), compared with a deficit of €80.4 billion (-2.0% of GDP) in the third quarter of 2022 and a surplus of €67.2 billion (+1.8% of GDP) in the fourth quarter of 2021, according to estimates released by Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union.

In the fourth quarter of 2022 compared with the third quarter of 2022, based on seasonally adjusted data, the deficit of the goods account decreased (-€17.5 bn compared to -€74.1 bn) and the surplus of the services account increased (+€64.2 bn compared to +€20.6 bn). The deficit of the primary income account increased (-€11.3 bn compared to -€5.5 bn), as did the deficit of the secondary income account (-€25.0 bn compared to -€21.5 bn). During the same period, the deficit of the capital account decreased (-€1.0 bn compared to -€7.1 bn).

In the fourth quarter of 2022, based on non-seasonally adjusted data, the EU recorded external current account surpluses with the United Kingdom (+€38.0 bn), Switzerland (+€28.5 bn), Canada (+€16.0 bn), the USA (+€9.5 bn), Hong Kong (+€7.5 bn), Japan (+€5.6 bn), offshore financial centres (+€5.5 bn) and India (+€2.4 bn). Deficits were registered with China (-€57.7 bn), Russia (-€13.0 bn) and Brazil (-€3.1 bn).

Based on non-seasonally adjusted data, direct investment assets of the EU decreased in the fourth quarter of 2022 by €376.4 bn and direct investment liabilities decreased by €389.9 bn. As a result, the EU was a net direct investor to the rest of the world by €13.6 bn. At the same time, portfolio investment recorded a net inflow of €25.6 bn, while other investment recorded a net outflow of €26.3 bn.

As concerns the total (intra-EU plus extra-EU) current account balances of the EU Member States, based on available non-seasonally adjusted data, nine Member States recorded surpluses, sixteen recorded deficits and two had their current accounts in balance in the fourth quarter of 2022.

The highest surpluses were observed in Germany (+€53.1 bn), Ireland (+€15.8 bn), Denmark (+€12.3 bn), Sweden (+€7.8 bn), Spain (+€7.0 bn), as well as the Netherlands (+€4.3 bn) and Italy (+€3.0 bn). The largest deficits were recorded for Greece (-€9.2 bn), France (-€6.7 bn), Romania (-€5.9 bn), Hungary (-€4.7 bn) and Czechia (-€3.4 bn).

Lithuania recorded a €0.6 billion current account deficit in the fourth quarter of 2022.

 

INDEPENDENT ELECTRICITY SUPPLIER BIRŠTONO ELEKTRA TO CEASE OPERATIONS

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – Independent electricity supplier Birštono elektra has informed its clients that it would cease operations as of 1 May 2023.

All obligations of Birštono elektra will be transferred to another independent electricity supplier Elektrum Lietuva under identical conditions as stated in original contracts. Clients will not have to conclude new agreements.

Meanwhile, Energijos skirstymo operatorius (ESO) has assured customers that electricity would continue to be supplied to them.

ESO is responsible for electricity and natural gas distribution, guaranteed supply of electricity and natural gas, property connecting to electricity and gas networks, maintenance and development of electricity and gas distribution networks, and security and reliability of energy distribution assurance.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Thursday, April 6

Office of the President

10:30

To lay flowers at the memorial to the partisans of Dainava military district (Bažnyčios 2, Alytus).

10:50

To meet with Mayor of Alytus Nerijus Cesiulis (Alytus Municipality, Rotušės 4, Alytus).

11:55

To deliver remarks to the press (Alytus Municipality, Rotušės 4, Alytus).

13:45

The president to hold a discussion on civic engagement with students of Alytus Putinų, Adolfas Ramanauskas-Vanagas, Saint Benedict and Jotvingiai Gymnasiums (Putinų Gymnasium, Šaltinių 1, Alytus).

15:00

To attend the sakura planting event (The Sakura Alley, Žalioji street, Alytus).

15:45

To participate in a meeting on environmental issues (Alytus Branch of Kaunas Applied Art School, Dariaus ir Girėno 27, Alytus).

17:00

The president together with the first lady to meet with the community of Alytus (Alytus Culture Centre, Pramonės 1B, Alytus).

8:30

To attend a meeting of the Conference of Chairs of the Seimas.

10:00

To chair the morning sitting of the Seimas.

14:00

To attend the afternoon sitting of the Seimas.

Office of the Government

8:30

To hold an internal meeting.

9:00

To participate in a remote meeting of the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian-Democrat (TS-LKD) Political Group in the Seimas.

10:00

To participate in the morning sitting of the Seimas.

12:00

To participate at the Government’s Hour in the Seimas.

13:00

To hold a working meeting.

14:00

To participate in the afternoon sitting of the Seimas.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

 

 

ALLIES MUST RAISE THEIR DEFENCE SPENDING TO 2.5% – ESTONIAN FORMIN IN NATO

 

Tallinn, April 5 (ELTA) – Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu is in Brussels for the meeting of NATO foreign ministers, who on 5 April discussed the July summit in Vilnius, Russia’s war in Ukraine, and cooperation with Asian and Pacific partners, reports the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Estonia.

Speaking about preparations for the July NATO summit in Vilnius, Reinsalu emphasised that just like Finland became a NATO member yesterday, the flags of Sweden and Ukraine must fly in front of the Alliance headquarters in the future, and this means Ukraine, currently defending itself against Russia, needs a clear accession perspective.

The ministers also talked about reinforcing NATO’s deterrence and defence posture, including implementing the decisions of last year’s Madrid summit. "NATO’s greatest security threat is Russia, which disregards all international agreements and principles, including nuclear safety,” Reinsalu said. "At today’s meeting, I called on Allies to increase their defence investment to at least 2 percent of GDP and set themselves the goal of reaching 2.5 percent by 2030. Estonia has a more ambitious goal and we plan to increase our defence spending to 3.2 percent of GDP by next year.”

Reinsalu underlined that it was time to annul the Founding Act signed in 1997 with Russia, aimed at advancing dialogue and European security. "Since February last year, Russia has been ignoring all principles of international law and is waging an inhuman war at the heart of Europe,” Reinsalu said. "Why keep the founding act in your drawer if it is no longer valid?”

They also spoke about the partnership of China and Russia, the challenges related to China and reducing the dependence of Allies on China.

On 5 April, NATO foreign ministers and Sweden will meet with their Asian and Pacific partners Australia, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand. Ahead of the meeting, the foreign minister emphasised that the full-scale war in Ukraine affected the whole world, not just Europe. "We are grateful to our partners in Asia and the Pacific and value their contribution to raising the cost of the war for Russia and holding Russia accountable for the crimes committed in Ukraine,” he said.

"Estonia takes a broader view and this is why we are committed to NATO’s 360-degree approach to help fight terrorism and other security challenges,” Reinsalu said. "Early this year, Estonia decided to increase its contribution to the US-led operation Inherent Resolve in Iraq. Contributing to stability in the Middle East and the fight against terrorism with Allies also contributes to Estonia’s security.”

The European Union’s High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell will also attend the meeting of NATO and partners to discuss closer cooperation with the EU.

Court weighing up release of Aivo Peterson from custody – ERR

Tallinn, April 5 (ELTA) – The second-tier Tallinn Circuit Court has on Wednesday been discussing a request submitted by lawyers acting for a candidate at the 5 March Riigikogu election. The candidate, Aivo Peterson, has been in custody since 11 March on suspicion of acting against the Estonian state; his lawyers are appealing for his release, reports Estonia’s public broadcaster ERR.

Peterson ran in the Ida-Viru County electoral district on 5 March, polling at 3,969 votes and narrowly missing out on winning a seat, but had been making pre-election campaigning videos from on the ground in the occupied Donbas region of Ukraine, and which toed a pro-Kremlin line.

ERR’s Russian-language portal reports that the court is to make a decision next week.

The Internal Security Service (ISS) arrested Peterson and two other men on 11 March, on suspicion of fostering relationships harmful to the Estonian state, while court hearings have been declared closed at the request of the Prosecutor’s Office.

 

LATVIAN FORMIN CALLS ON ALLIES TO STRENGTHEN AIR DEFENCE AND ANTI-MISSILE DEFENCE CAPABILITIES IN BALTIC STATES

 

Riga, April 5 (ELTA) – On 5 April, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Latvia Edgars Rinkēvičs attended a meeting of NATO ministers of foreign affairs in Brussels, which included a working session on preparations for the NATO Vilnius Summit and a meeting with partners from the Indo-Pacific region, stated the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia.

The Latvian foreign minister expressed the position that, ahead the NATO Vilnius Summit, it was important to complete the implementation of the decisions of the Madrid Summit on defence and deterrence. The minister said he hoped that Sweden would become a full-fledged, 32nd NATO member state by the time of the Vilnius summit, thereby getting fully integrated into NATO structure and command alongside Finland.

The foreign minister reaffirmed Latvia’s goal of allocating 3% of its gross domestic product to national defence by 2027. "Latvia supports the initiative to reinforce the commitment of the 2014 Wales Summit, which urged the Alliance’s Member States to increase their defence spending to 2% of GDP per year by 2024. Latvia will increase its support provided as host country in a targeted manner and will continue to invest in its defence capabilities,” Edgars Rinkēvičs emphasised.

The minister also thanked Canada for its determination to lead a combat-capable multinational brigade in the long term, which is to include both an increase in the number of personnel and the deployment of additional capabilities and equipment in Latvia.

Taking into account the current experience with Russia’s war in Ukraine, Minister Rinkēvičs drew attention to ensuring the presence of allied anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence units in the Baltic States.

NATO ministers of foreign affairs together with their counterparts from Australia, South Korea, Japan and New Zealand, and the European Union’s High Representative exchanged views on the Russian aggression in Ukraine and the support of partners from the Indo-Pacific region to Ukraine, as well as China’s influence on the Euro-Atlantic security and that of the Indo-Pacific region.

The foreign minister highlighted the close link between the Euro-Atlantic security with that of the Indo-Pacific region. It is important for Latvia that there is a dialogue between NATO and like-minded countries in Asia-Pacific, especially Australia, New Zealand, Japan and South Korea. The minister expressed his gratitude to the countries of the region for their current support for Ukraine, which takes place within the framework of NATO mechanisms and bilateral cooperation.

 

US CONGRESSIONAL STAFF DELEGATION VISITS LATVIA

 

Riga, April 5 (ELTA) – On 4 April, the state secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia, Andris Pelšs, met with a United States Congressional staff delegation for a discussion on bilateral cooperation between Latvia and the United States of America, the security situation in the region, the war waged by Russia on Ukraine, and the fight against disinformation.

During their stay in Latvia, members of the US Congressional staff are having meetings with Latvian public officials, as well as visiting the military base of the National Armed Forces in Ādaži and US troops deployed in Latvia, said the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia.

In a conversation with US Congressional staff, State Secretary Andris Pelšs praised the excellent bilateral relations between Latvia and the US and the strong transatlantic unity, which is of particular importance in the current geopolitical situation. The meeting highlighted Latvia’s leadership in assistance efforts for Ukraine in both bilateral and multilateral formats, and the unwavering support by the US in the defence sector.

During their visit in Latvia from 3 to 5 April, the US delegation also has meetings with officials at the Saeima (the Latvian Parliament), the President’s Chancery, the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as experts from the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence. The delegation is also visiting the Office of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty in Riga and a Latvian company, Atlas Aerospace, where they will get acquainted with a manufacturing facility for unmanned aerial vehicles.

Visits by the US Congressional staff to the Baltic States have been taking place on a regular basis since 2013. They help the United States Congress to explore the security situation on the ground in the Baltic region and to understand what is required for the strengthening of the Baltic States’ security.

Each year, the United States Congress makes an assessment of and assigns funding for the development of the Baltic States’ defence sector under the Baltic Security Initiative.

In 2022, the United States Congress approved 225 million USD in defence assistance to the three Baltic States to bolster their capabilities in 2023.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230406ej46000gp


Lithuanian municipalities are allegedly buying sanctioned Russian, Belarusian timber
BNS/TBT Staff
207 字
2023 年 4 月 11 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – Lithuanian municipalities and municipal establishments and schools may have purchased sanctioned wood fuel from Russia and Belarus, Siena, a Lithuanian according to the investigative journalism center, reports.

It claims Andeta, a Salcininkai-based company that imports wood pellets from Kazakhstan, has won public procurement tenders worth more than 1.5 million euros since September.

In September, the company started importing wood pellets from Kazakhstan, and its supplier is DTRA, a Kazakh company registered in September. Siena claims it was possibly set up to circumvent the existing sanctions for Russia and Belarus and it has only several employees.

Ana Burinskaja, head of Andeta, told Siena the company checks its suppliers and, therefore, does not import from Russia or Belarus.

Siena and its partners have learnt that Russian and Belarusian timber may be entering the European Union from Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan via sanction circumvention schemes.

Investigators have found that Qazfancom, a birch plywood supplier and producer established in Uralsk, Kazakhstan, in May, is importing large quantities of wood products from two Russian plywood production plants in Russia's Voronezh region. Similar volumes of plywood from Uralsk are moving to Western countries, including Poland, Lithuania and Estonia.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230411ej4b00004


Highlights: Latvian Media 11 Apr 23
859 字
2023 年 4 月 11 日 11:02 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

Sweden’s and Finland’s readiness to contribute to Nato’s collective defence, questions about the ideology of a new political party, and legal cases against journalists for breaching EU sanctions are among the main topics covered by Latvian newspapers and websites on 10-11 April.

Sweden ready for any escalation from Russia - commander

In an interview with the military portal Sargs, Commander of the Swedish Land Forces Maj-Gen Karl Engelbrektson says Sweden is ready to meet all requirements and will participate in joint defence planning as soon as it becomes a full member of Nato. He says that Sweden takes the Russian threat very seriously and that the build-up of Gotland’s defence capabilities has been significantly accelerated following Russian propaganda narratives about a Baltic conquest from this island. The commander acknowledges that the war in Ukraine has led to a reassessment of previous knowledge of large-scale military operations and Russian military tactics. Sweden is preparing for any kind of escalation and the military leadership wants society to be prepared for a possible war and to be able to show its resilience, according to Gen Engelbrektson. (Sargs, 11 April)

Interview with commander of Finnish Land Forces

The online portal Puaro carries an interview with Commander of the Finnish Land Forces Maj-Gen Jukka Jokinen, who confirms Finland's readiness to contribute to Nato’s collective defence as well as to share its experience in building successful and effective defence systems in other countries. Maj-Gen Jokinen expands that Finland will be one of the few Nato members with a history of direct combat experience with the forces of the imperial and aggressive predecessor of Russia, the USSR. The Finnish army has considered several lessons from the war in Ukraine, including the fact that the importance of artillery and man in war is not lost, and that good communication, liaison and very capable leadership are particularly important, Puaro cites Jokinen as saying. The commander also stresses the need to focus on the new domains of cyber environment and space, which Finland is already doing. (Puaro, 10 April)

Support for incumbent president

Normunds Medens, owner of a farm and student of regional development at Riga Technical University, publishes an article in the liberal weekly Ir entitled "Our president in the ocean of the world's nations", expressing his support for incumbent President Egils Levits on the eve of the presidential election. He considers Levits to be a positive example of someone who, while working outside Latvia, has seen the prosperity of Europe's small countries and the power and economic allure of the big nations, but has come to work in Latvia. As Medens writes, a president can also be distracted, but not to the extent of going to the homeland at a crossroads of identity, plagued by decades of poorly managed integration with immigrants from neighbouring countries. He hopes that the president's life-tested experience can point out the mistakes and causes so as not to harm future Latvians in the face of history, encourage Latvians to cling to the traditions of their land, and prevent Latvians from disappearing into the "ocean of the world's peoples". (Ir, 10 April)

New political party

The conservative daily Latvijas Avize voices concern in the headline that the membership list and ideology of the party Together for Latvia, founded by the mayor of Rezekne, raises several questions, including whether it will be a pro-Kremlin party. The daily quotes one of its leaders, former MP Andrejs Klementjevs, who says that the new party will not be as radical as the Russian Union of Latvia or For Stability, thus not questioning Latvia's membership in the EU and Nato, which he sees as a guarantor of Latvia's security. However, earlier statements by party leader Aleksandrs Bartasevics gave a different impression, as earlier this year he said that Latvia should be a neutral country, Latvijas Avize notes. When asked about the party's ideology, Bartasevics and Klementjevs replied that the party would focus on economic issues and consolidated society without discrimination, the daily adds. (Latvijas Avize, 11 April)

Journalists accused of working with sanctioned Russian media

The online portal Pietiek.com publishes an open letter by journalists Vladimir Dorofeyev, Ludmila Pribylskaya and Andrei Yakovlev who are all among the 16 Latvian journalists writing in Russian accused of "violating EU sanctions". Starting on 11 April, several courts in Riga will view cases against these journalists for breaching EU sanctions by producing content for Russian state propaganda channels. The journalists say they consider this a politically motivated process that violates the basic principles of freedom of expression. "If Russia were to sanction a BBC manager, would it be legal to prosecute journalists who in good faith write texts for the British media corporation, rent space for a correspondents' desk or provide transport services for film crews, for 'passing the buck' to a BBC manager who has been sanctioned by Russia?" Pietiek.com quotes the journalists' letter. (Pietiek.com, 10 April)

Source: BBC Monitoring 11 Apr 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020230411ej4b001e1


Global LNG Monitor This Week - April 14, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 4 月 14 日, 9604 字, (英文)
Latvia scraps plans for controversial LNG terminal but still needs to ditch fossil gasPlans for Latvia’s Skulte LNG project involve a facility with a regasification capacity of 4.1bn m3 per year, similar to the volume of the Klaipeda ...

Phony peacemaker in the war of Ukraine and real Intimidator in the Taiwan Strait
Andrew H.C. Lee, Representative Taipei Mission in the Republic of Latvia
1791 字
2023 年 4 月 14 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
China suppresses Taiwan to kowtow

In August last year, China deployed warships, missiles and fighter jets around Taiwan in its largest display of force in years following US former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s trip to Taiwan.

Just like the response to Pelosi’s visit, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army(PLA) on 8 April conducted three days of combat-readiness patrol exercises encircling Taiwan entitle “Joint Sword”, in retaliation for President Tsai Ing-wen’s meeting with House Speaker Kevin McCarthy during her transit in Los Angeles. A series of fierce pushback from Beijing also included imposing sanction against the two organizations that hosted President Tsai during the trip, the Hudson Institute and the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library.

During the three-day military operation, 232 Chinese military aircraft and 32 warships were detected around Taiwan, including a swarm of jet fighters launched from one of its aircraft carrier Shandong. The exercises were to test Chinese PLA joint combat capabilities involving multiple services “under actual combat condition” and intended to practice rehearsing an encirclement and establishing an aerial and maritime blockade of Taiwan, with different formation of fighter jets, drones, bombers, and transport aircraft, and warships.

US and EU staunchly support peace and status quo in the Taiwan Strait

Taiwan condemns China’s irresponsible and provocative actions in the strongest possible terms, and reiterates that President Tsai exercises a basic right of a sovereign nation when traveling to other countries to engage in diplomatic activities, and that China has no right to intervene. By using this as a pretext to take ruthless actions, China is without doubt challenging the international order and undermining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and in the region. This is a gross violation of a fundamental principle of international law and the United Nations Charter that disputes should be settled peacefully.

In response to China’s military threat against Taiwan, the U.S. Department of State stated that the US has consistently urged China to exercise restraint and to not change the status quo in the Taiwan Strait. It also stressed that the US has ample resources and capabilities in the Indo-Pacific region to ensure peace and stability and to honor its security commitments.

Nabila Massrali, Spokesperson for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the European Commission, on April 9 responded to an inquiry by a media outlet. In her reply, Ms. Massrali stressed the European Union’s concern about People’s Liberation Army activities in the Taiwan Strait and around Taiwan. She stated that China should not change the status quo unilaterally or by the use of force. Any escalation, accident, or use of force in the Taiwan Strait would have major economic and security impacts on the region and the world. Therefore, it is critical that all parties concerned exercise restraint and reduce tensions through meaningful, open dialogue.

This EU’s position was expressed in an even more unequivocal manner by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and other high-level officials in recent public statements. On March 30, during her speech at the European Policy Centre in Brussels, President von der Leyen underscored the importance of peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait and stated that any weakening of regional stability in Asia, the fastest-growing region in the world, would affect global security, the free flow of trade, and the European Union’s interests. She also pointed out that China has been ramping up its military posturing as well as disinformation and economic and trade coercion policies, willfully compelling other countries to comply as when it took retaliatory measures against Lithuania and other European companies in response to Taiwan opening a representative office in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius.

Cross-strait security is foundational to prosperity in the Indo-Pacific. Taiwan is pleased to see the EU has been paying close attention to the security situation around the Taiwan Strait, and echoing on multiple occasions the position affirmed at the G7, United States-Japan, and United Kingdom-France leaders’ summits and other important international meetings, drawing attention to the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.

China’s military-spending growth is alarming neighboring countries

In the last three decades, China has increased its military spending by 39 times. The Chinese PLA has been sharpening its teeth by modernizing its forces for years. Aided by increasing defense budgets, the Chinese 2.2 million active duty service members and 660,000 paramilitary personnel, the world’s largest military force, is increasingly getting powerful and aggressive than ever before with the ever-expanding military modernization of its Army, Navy and Air Force.

In early March, Beijing announced its military budget of $225 billion for 2023 despite setting an official economic growth target of only 5 percent. The spending accounts for 5.7 percent of total government expenditure and marks the eighth consecutive year of increase in its military expenditure, amidst geopolitical tensions and global unease about the PLA’s increasing aggressive behavior. However western analysts widely believe Beijing spends much more on defense than the officially announced sums. This upward trajectory has mostly remained unchanged in China’s military and security development, making it the second biggest spender on defense in the world and its military budget continues to be over three times higher than that of its immediate neighbor India.

Against this backdrop, a number of countries, from Japan and South Korea to the Philippines, have been increasingly wary of Beijing’s growing assertiveness and military ambitions in the region. In facing of the geopolitical security challenges posed by China, Japan has pledged to double defense spending of $51 billion for fiscal year 2023 while acquiring weapons from the U.S. with range well outside Japanese territory. South Korea has also acknowledged that stability in the Taiwan Strait is essential to its security while announcing the 2023-2027 mid-term defense plan in last December expected to spend $268.8 billion for the next five years, indicating that the military expenditure will be increased by about 6.8 percent annually. Despite economic headwinds, besides increasing its 2023 defense budget by 4.9 percent, the Philippines has also announced new U.S. base access rights and is exploring joint patrols of the South China Sea with Australia, Japan, and the United Sates.

Phony peace-broker in the war of Ukraine, real intimidator in the Taiwan Strait

While refusing to condemn the invasion of sovereign Ukraine by its autocratic and strategic partner in Moscow, China continues keeping military pressure on democratic Taiwan. While turning a blind eye to Russia committing crimes against humanity in Ukraine, China blames the US and NATO for provoking Moscow, and undermines the sanctions campaign imposed on Russia.

While evading calling Russia’s attack on Ukraine an invasion or war, China now shifts into high gear into its preparations for war against Taiwan. While offering a 12-point peace proposal to end the war in Ukraine with right-hand calling for “ceasing hostilities” and “resuming peace talks,” China imperiously and repeatedly launches large-scale military drills to repress Taiwan and bring it under the yoke. While seeking to play a role as peace-broker between Ukraine and Russia, China blatantly flexes its military muscle in the Western Pacific and Taiwan Strait as a trouble maker and intimidator.

Beijing’s two-handed tactics with olive branch in one hand, sword in the other, fully demonstrates how untrustworthy and hypocritical this regime is. On Beijing’s part, China’s intervention signals its own needs and applies manipulative strategies to advance its agendas tied to self-serving motives at the expense of Ukraine’s territory and sovereignty. This is not because that China is a regime with dissociative identity disorder (DID), it is simply due to the fact that Beijing has always pursued selfish interest whenever and whatever is convenient. In viewing of both scenarios in Ukraine and the Taiwan Strait, the international community should stay on high alert over the PRC’s ambitions, Biden agendas, and it’s strengthening ties with Russia and efforts to subvert existing multilateral institutions, establish new norms that favor Beijing’s more authoritarian tendencies and insatiable ambition.

Making friends is part of sovereignty and fundamental human rights

Taiwan is a sovereign and independent country, with 109 embassies, representative offices, and permanent missions in more than 70 countries and international organizations. In 2023, Taiwan passport holders enjoy visa-free and visa upon arrival access to nearly 150 countries and territories, with additional 20 some countries eligible for granting eVisa, ranking Taiwan passport 35th in the world in terms of travel freedom. China is in no position to dictate who Taiwan can and cannot be friends with. President Tsai’s recent visit to diplomatic allies Guatemala and Belize and transit stops in the United States were a success celebrated by the Taiwanese people. China is overreacting when it uses this as a pretext to further suppress Taiwan’s international space and impose so-called sanctions on related individuals and organizations. Such irrational behavior not only increases the Taiwanese people’s antipathy to China but also exposes the erratic and absurd nature of the communist regime. We urge the Beijing authorities to squarely face the reality that neither side of the Taiwan Strait is subordinate to the other. Threats and suppression will not change this objective fact, but to push both sides farther and farther away. And they will only strengthen the Taiwan government’s unwavering faith in freedom and democracy and its commitment to doing its utmost to ensure the international space to which Taiwan is entitled.

Taiwan commits to defending sovereignty and democratic values by working with the EU

As a like-minded partner of the Baltic States and the European Union, Taiwan supports ensuring the security of supply chains and the global order of freedom and democracy. Based on the existing solid bilateral relationship, Taiwan will continue to strengthen mutually beneficial, reciprocal, substantive, and cordial partnerships with the European Union and its member nations to further unite the global democratic community and safeguard shared core values.

As a responsible member of the international community, Taiwan will not escalate conflict nor instigate disputes. It will staunchly safeguard its sovereignty and national security and stand firm in defense of democracy and freedom. Taiwan will also continue to maintain close communications and coordination with the European Union, the United States and other like-minded countries to jointly deter authoritarian expansion and aggression, preserve the rules-based international order, and defend a free and open Indo-Pacific.

Click to view image[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/157769_8874881776438ee4912b6d_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230509ej4e00046


Private jet sold by Latvian company taken to Russia via Lithuania in possible circumvention of existing sanctions - media
LETA
255 字
2023 年 4 月 17 日 11:27 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
VILNIUS, April 17 (LETA--BNS) - Three private jets have been granted permission to fly from Lithuania to Russia this year, and Lithuania's airspace may be used to circumvent the existing international sanctions to bring aircraft purchased in Europe to Russia, the Lithuanian public broadcaster LRT's Investigation Team reports.

A Beechcraft B24R Sierra, which arrived in Kaunas from Spain via Poland on March 31 and left for Pskov on April 2, is currently being sold in Moscow. The Lithuanian Transport Safety Administration, which issued the permit for the flight from Kaunas to Russia, says the existing international sanctions were not violated in this case.

According to the LRT, the private plane was sold by Latvian company Fly Sky and was used in Spain by FlyUp Academy, a pilot training academy FlyUp Academy. Fly Sky's sole shareholder is Aviaserviso Grupe, a company registered in Vilnius and led by a Lithuanian national who also led Spain's FlyUp Academy until August, 2021.

A Lithuanian pilot and a Kazakh-Russian businessman running businesses in Lithuania were involved in this possible sanction evasion scheme that is now being investigated by Lithuania's Financial Crime Investigation Service, the LRT reports.

Planes were also allowed to fly to Pskov from Lithuania not only on April 2, but also on January 14 and March 15.

Western sanctions imposed after Russia's attack on Ukraine bans sale of airplanes to Russia.

30393338313946362D343831372D3439

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230417ej4h001b9


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10899
Karolis Broga
4077 字
2023 年 4 月 17 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10899 (95305) MONDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL 17

 

WE MUST FIGHT FOR THE VALUES OF OUR PARENTS AND GRANDPARENTS – PRESIDENT

 

Vilnius, April17 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda met with the Lithuanian community in The Hague on Sunday evening and thanked them for their active participation in civic initiatives and for mobilising support for Ukraine, the presidency said in a press release.

"Today, we all share a common goal – a secure Lithuania, where it is good to live in and to return to. This goal is inseparable from the victory of Ukraine. Your support, your participation in campaigns that keep the world from forgetting Ukraine’s fight for freedom, is also a contribution to Lithuania’s security. I am proud of those who have decided to join the activities of the Lithuanian Riflemen’s Union in the diaspora. In the face of geopolitical challenges, the solidarity of Lithuanians around the world is more important than ever for us, as well as the understanding that the values cherished by our parents and great-grandparents, such as independence, freedom of speech, democracy, and the unique Lithuanian language are not a given, but must be constantly fought for,” the president spoke.

Addressing the Lithuanians based in the Netherlands, the head of state stressed the importance of preserving the national identity of the Lithuanians living abroad and of remaining in close contact with the homeland.

"Lithuanian communities around the globe are focal points of Lithuanian national identity, where fellow Lithuanians can work towards fostering Lithuanian values, strengthening civic engagement and involvement in the life of Lithuania, increasing Lithuania’s visibility abroad, and encouraging the return to the homeland,” Nausėda pointed out.

Noting that at present there was not a single Lithuanian language school in the Netherlands, the president emphasised that it was of great importance for our country that Lithuanian nationals living abroad, especially the younger generation, preserve the Lithuanian language, culture and traditions, and through them – a close connection with Lithuania, and that they would become active creators of our state.

Nausėda invited everyone to work together to form a Lithuanian school community or to join virtual Lithuanian schools in other countries.

The meeting with the Lithuanian community also focused on the planned referendum in 2024 on the possibility of retaining the Lithuanian citizenship after acquiring the citizenship of another country.

The president stressed that this constitutional change can only be implemented through a very active participation in the referendum.

"I urge you to spread the word about the upcoming referendum and to encourage your family and friends to participate in it, both in the Netherlands and in Lithuania,” President Nausėda said.

During his working visit to the Netherlands, the Lithuanian leader will today meet with King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands, Prime Minister Mark Rutte, the heads of the International Criminal Court and the European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation (Eurojust).

 

WE CANNOT AND WILL NOT ALLOW WAR CRIMINALS TO ESCAPE ACCOUNTABILITY – NAUSĖDA IN THE HAGUE

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – As part of his working visit to the Netherlands, President Gitanas Nausėda met in The Hague with President of the International Criminal Court (ICC) Piotr Hofmański and Vice-President of the European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation (Eurojust) Margarita Šniutytė-Daugėlienė, reports the presidency.

The meetings discussed the international investigation of war crimes in Ukraine, the prosecution of war criminals and the establishment of a special tribunal on aggression against Ukraine.

In his meeting with the president of the ICC, Nausėda stressed that the International Criminal Court must continue to play a central role in the prosecution of international crimes, however, following Russia’s attack on Ukraine, the international community must seek additional means of delivering justice.

"The International Criminal Court is the key institution in the investigation of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity as well as aggression. We see many examples of such crimes in Ukraine, including brutal killings of prisoners of war and violence against civilians. Behind these crimes are those who took the decision to wage war, to set up filtration camps, and those who sanctioned the systematic murder and torture – namely, the Russian civilian and military leadership. We cannot and will not allow them to escape accountability,” the president underlined.

Nausėda welcomed the ICC’s decision to issue arrest warrants against Vladimir Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova.

"This is an important step in defending international humanitarian principles and demonstrating that accountability for serious violations of international law is inevitable. However, the deportation of children from the occupied territories of Ukraine to Russia is only one of the many war crimes of the Kremlin regime, whose root cause is the crime of aggression,” President Nausėda spoke.

The head of state pointed out that Lithuania strongly supported the establishment of a special tribunal on aggression against Ukraine, as the ICC could only investigate crimes of aggression in two cases: if Russia and Ukraine were State Parties to the Rome Statute, or if there was a referral by the United Nations Security Council.

In his conversation with Vice-President of Eurojust Margarita Šniutytė-Daugėlienė, the president thanked her for the active role of the Agency in coordinating international crime investigations and gathering evidence in Ukraine.

"Lithuania supports the decision to establish the International Centre for the Prosecution of Crimes of Aggression, to whose establishment Eurojust has made a significant contribution. This is an important and timely step, as evidence of crimes of aggression must be collected without any delay,” the president emphasised.

Nausėda stressed that the setting up of this centre is also the first step towards the establishment of a special tribunal.

 

NAUSĖDA REMAINS TOP PICK FOR NEXT PRESIDENT – POLL

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – Voters continue to view incumbent President Gitanas Nausėda as the most realistic winner of the 2024 presidential election, the latest opinion poll commissioned by the news website Delfi shows.

On 17-27 March, the pollster Spinter tyrimai interviewed 1,016 residents aged 18-75, half by phone and half online. Respondents were asked to choose their favourite presidential candidate from a list provided to them.

Among those polled, around a fifth or 20.4% prefer Nausėda to be re-elected for the second term in 2024 elections (20.1% in February).

Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė follows with 10.5% of support (10.1% in February) and lawyer Ignas Vėgėlė ranks third, favoured by 7.7% of the respondents, compared with 8% in February.

Leader of the Lithuanian Social Democratic Party (LSDP) Vilija Blinkevičiūtė is fourth with 6.2% of support in the approval ratings as she overtook ex-prime minister Saulius Skvernelis, leader of Democrats For Lithuania, who was named by 4.2% as next president. In February, their ratings were 5.6% and 6% respectively.

Other potential candidates whom people would like to see as the next president were: public figure Andrius Tapinas (4.2%), Farmers and Greens Union (LVŽS) leader Ramūnas Karbauskis (3.6%), MP Remigijus Žemaitaitis of the Freedom and Justice Party (3.2%).National Defence Minister Arvydas Anušauskas (2.7%), Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen (2.6%). The approval ratings of all of them changed within the margin of error compared to February.

Other politicians were named by fewer than 2% of the polled: MP Aurelijus Veryga, outgoing Vilnius Mayor Remigijus Šimašius, MEP Aušra Maldeikienė, MEP Waldemar Tomaszewski, MP Petras Gražulis and Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis.

Among those polled, 12.9% said they would not vote for any of the candidates they were asked to choose from. Another 13.8% were undecided whom they would vote for, while 8% said having no intention to cast their ballot in the coming presidential election.

The margin of error of the poll is 3.1%.

 

CHIEF OF DEFENCE VISITS GERMANY

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – On Monday and Tuesday, 17-18 April, Chief of Defence of Lithuania Lieutenant General Valdemaras Rupšys is paying a visit to Germany, where he is meeting with General Carsten Breuer, the newly appointed inspector general of the Bundeswehr, the new head of Germany’s Armed Forces.

The generals will discuss collective and national defence plans, participation of Lithuania’s Armed Forces in a German-led training programme for Ukrainian troops and holding individual, collective and specialised training together with German and Belgian instructors.

The visit will also discuss participation of Lithuanian soldiers in the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) in the composition of a German unit. Cooperation results will be evaluated, matters related to developing the capabilities of the Lithuanian Armed Forces and joint training will be considered, too.

 

ECONMIN TO MAKE A WORKING VISIT TO POLAND

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – Minister of the Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė is visiting Poland on Monday and Tuesday together with a Lithuanian business delegation consisting of representatives of biotechnology companies, associations and research centres. Much attention will be devoted to step up cooperation in the area of life sciences, digital and cyber security.

The minister notes that bilateral ties between Lithuania and Poland are strong, consistent and constantly growing. Trade turnover between the two countries exceeded EUR 10 billion in 2022 and Poland is among the ten largest investors in Lithuania. According to the minister, mineral, plastic and animal origin products were the main goods of Lithuanian origin exported to Poland last year. Whereas Lithuania mostly imported from Poland base metal products, chemical products and machinery.

During her visit to Warsaw, Armonaitė and Waldemar Buda, Polish minister of economic development and technology, will open the life sciences forum CEBioForum 2023. The meeting of ministers will discuss promoting cooperation between Lithuania’s Innovation Agency, the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development and the Polish Industrial Development Agency. Ukraine’s rebuilding initiatives will be addressed, too.

A meeting is also planned between Minister Armonaitė and Poland’s Secretary of State for Cyber Security Janusz Cieszyński.

The economy minister will participate in a discussion on the future of life sciences in Europe and together with representatives of the Lithuanian biotechnology association Lithuania BIO and the Innovation Agency will visit the Lithuanian stand at the CEBioForum 2023.

Lithuania has much potential in life sciences research and production as the sector creates 2.5% of GDP and significantly exceeds EU average. The strategic goal is for life sciences to account for 5% of GDP.

The minister will also meet with the leadership of Lukasiewicz Research Network, the third largest in Europe, uniting 22 research institutes and 440 laboratories in 12 different cities. The network has 7,000 employees and carries out projects valued at around EUR 1.6 billion.

Poland’s direct investments in Lithuania amount to EUR 1.4 billion, placing the country 7th among the largest investors in Lithuania.

 

TAX REFORM PLAN LACKS CLEAR PURPOSE, HEAD OF BUSINESS CONFEDERATION SAYS

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – The president of the Lithuanian Business Confederation (LVK) says that the Finance Ministry’s tax reform plan lacks an understandable purpose as arguments offered on the need of a reform at meetings with the ministry are confusing. 

"I am hearing very different arguments as to the purpose of this reform. In one meeting I heard three different reasons: one is to collect more money, although after an hour-long discussion it appears that no more money would be collected eventually. Second reason is the need to fund defence. Third reason is to remove those inequalities. Sometimes we see in the discussion that they get lost in the arguments,” Andrius Romanovskis told Žinių radijas on Monday. 

According to the LVK president, the present reform proposal also fails to address the often mentioned "animal farm” problem as it leaves room for tax avoidance through the use of reliefs and different types of activity.

"The proposals target those who publicly report and disclose their income. It is those who act transparently, honestly and openly about their taxes who will see their taxes increasing. While those who have been teetering on that grey line all along, showing extremely low incomes, have had all sorts of preferential treatment…They will not be affected in most cases,” he explained.

Doubts about the purpose of the reform are also evident among politicians, including those from the ruling coalition, Romanovskis noted.

 

SALARIES OF VILNIUS MAYOR, DEPUTIES NON-COMPETITIVE – BENKUNSKAS

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – Vilnius city mayor-elect Valdas Benkunskas says that low salaries are an obstacle in search of candidates for deputy mayors, hoping that the stalled issue of raising remuneration for civil servants will shortly be addressed.

"Really, it is no secret that we have a huge problem in Vilnius city municipality with attracting highly qualified professionals to work here as we have to compete for them with both businesses and ministries,” Benkunskas told a press conference at the Vilnius city municipality on Monday.

The mayor-elect said that, to his knowledge, the deputy mayor is paid EUR 1,500 and the mayor receives a salary of over EUR 2,000.

"I hope it very much that the MPs will do their job as to the stalling [of the issue – ELTA] in the Government and the Seimas on reviewing and increasing salaries in the public sector or making them at least more competitive. But we are starting from the old position, the salaries of this term move to the new one,” he noted.

Benkunskas admits that it is precisely low salaries that often discourage professionals from taking office as deputy mayors.

"In our talks with specialists or professionals that we would like to invite to our team as deputy mayors, the pay is often the reason, maybe not the main one, but really an important one why these people tell us no,” the Vilnius mayor-elect said.

 

COALITION AGREEMENT AT VILNIUS CITY MUNICIPALITY SIGNED

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – Political groups of the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD) and the Freedom Party in the Vilnius City Municipality have signed a coalition agreement.

The coalition’s programme sets out a total of 12 objectives for the new city government, including becoming a climate-neutral city by 2030.

The political groups agreed on having two deputy mayors each. The Freedom Party's deputy mayors will be in charge of education and sport.

The ruling coalition has 28 out of 51 councillor seats, with 19 seats taken by the TS-LKD.

The TS-LKD earlier offered four councillor-elects of the Lithuanian Social Democratic Party (LSDP) to join the coalition, but the LSDP rejected the invitation, citing ideological differences as the main reason.

 

MEDIA: PRIVATE PLANES ARE FLOWN VIA LITHUANIA TO RUSSIA POTENTIALLY CIRCUMVENTING SANCTIONS

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – A journalistic investigation by public broadcaster LRT reveals that three permits were issued so far in 2023 to fly out private planes from Lithuania to Russia, giving rise to suspicions that Lithuania’s airspace may be used in a potential circumvention of sanctions.

LRT reported that earlier in April a private plane Beechcraft B24R Sierra was issued a permit to fly from Kaunas to Russia and is now being resold in Moscow.

According to the report, a Lithuanian pilot as well as a Kazakh and Russian businessman Leonid Sokolov, who owns businesses in Lithuania, might have participated in this scheme.

The private plane was on sale in Madrid by the Latvian company Fly Sky, whose shareholder is Aviaserviso Grupė, a company operating in Lithuania. The investigation revealed that the company belonged to Sokolov until it was transferred to a German citizen in April 2022.

The report states that, according to the Lithuanian Transport Safety Administration (LTSA), which issues flight permits, sanctions were not violated formally. However, law enforcement is now examining the circumstances.

The Ministry of Transport and Communications describes the situation as regrettable. According to the public broadcaster, EU institutions have been addressed with a request to tighten sanction control.

 

ORGANISED GROUP SUSPECTED OF EMBEZZLING EUR 230 THOUS OF CREDIT UNION’S FUNDS

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – A three-person organised group has allegedly embezzled funds of nine clients of a credit union worth nearly EUR 230 thousand, the Financial Crime Investigation Service (FNTT) reports.

A preliminary investigation was launched after receiving a report of the central bank following an unplanned inspection.

The persons are suspected of embezzlement of large-value foreign property, misappropriation of foreign property, forgery of documents, fraudulent financial accounting. One of them was an employee in the credit institution.

The case has been submitted to the Vilnius regional court, the FNTT said.

"The United Central Credit Union Kreda, which unites 14 credit unions in the regions of Lithuania, is not involved in this situation. The credit union mentioned in the article was not and is not part of our group of credit unions. We would like to stress that the Kreda group complies with all the norms set by the Bank of Lithuania and the European Central Bank, and is subject to an annual independent audit,” Jolita Česonienė, head and member of the board of Kreda, said.

 

CORONAVIRUS IN LITHUANIA: 30 NEW CASES, DEATH CONFIRMED LAST DAY

 

Vilnius, April 17 (ELTA) – On Sunday, 30 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 and one virus-related fatality was confirmed in Lithuania, the State Data Agency said.

A person above 70 years old died of the disease last day.

At present, 3,493 people are ill with the virus, including 95 people being treated in hospital. Three patients are undergoing treatment in intensive care units.

According to the agency, the death toll from Covid-19 in Lithuania stands at 9,656.

The average number of new daily cases in the last 7 days is 136. The incidence rate per 100,000 residents in the last 14 days is 84.7.

 

PRESIDENT KARIS NOMINATES REFORM-EESTI 200-SDE COALITION

 

Tallinn, April 17 (ELTA) – Estonian President Alar Karis has officially nominated the Reform-Eesti 200-SDE coalition government, following a ceremony at Kadriorg, the official presidential residence in Tallinn, the public broadcaster ERR reports.

In the accompanying speech, the head of state said that governments have always reflected the voters, while in Estonia, coalitions rely on compromise – which he sees as a strength.

The president did, however, call on the coalition to make good use of impact analysis when drawing up policies.

"There must be impact analysis. Without that, you cannot justify the abolition of the VAT exemption for accommodation facilities, the increase in taxation on cars, and tax autonomy for the municipalities,” he said, referring to three policies the incoming coalition has in the agreement it signed the Saturday before last.

 

ESTONIA ISSUED 12 FINES OVER PRO-RUSSIAN SOCIAL MEDIA POSTS THIS YEAR SO FAR

 

Tallinn, April 17 (ELTA) – The Police and Border Guard Board (PPA) have imposed 51 fines so far this year, on those who displayed pro-Russian war symbols or justified in some other way Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Twelve of the fines related to infringements via social media, Estonia's public broadcaster reports.

Fines for publicly displaying support of Russia’s invasion can be as high as EUR 1,200, while the average level is EUR 400.

PPA spokesperson Maarja Punak told ERR that many of the infringements were reported to them, with many incidents concerning Aivo Peterson, who ran for the United Left Party (EÜVP) and came close to winning a Riigikogu seat in Ida-Viru County – after a campaign which included broadcasting videos from the occupied Donbas region.

"Just with Aivo Peterson along, I don’t think there’s been a week where I haven’t received some kind of report relating to him,” Punak said.

 

LATVIAN FORMIN TO WELCOME CZECH COUNTERPART IN RIGA

 

2023-04-17 10:58

Riga, April 17 (ELTA) – On 21 April in Riga, Latvian Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs will meet with Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Jan Lipavský, the ministry said.

The ministers of the two countries intend to discuss the bilateral relations between Latvia and the Czech Republic, the security situation in the region, including Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, the enlargement of the European Union, and the fight against disinformation.

As part of his visit, Foreign Minister Lipavský will have a meeting with the Speaker of the Saeima (the Latvian Parliament), Eduards Smiltēns, and visit the Ādaži military base.

 

LATVIA SEES GROWING PROPORTION OF EMPLOYED PERSONS HAVING HIGHER EDUCATION

 

Riga, April 17 (ELTA) – Data compiled by the Central Statistical Bureau of Latvia show that, out of 804 thousand people (aged 25 and over) employed on Latvia’s labour market at the beginning of 2022, 42.1% had higher education, which is an increase of 0.9 percentage points over the year.

Out of the number, majority (24.8%) had acquired master’s degree, 13.2% bachelor’s degree, 3.4% short-cycle tertiary (college) education, and 0.7% doctorate.

In 2022 upper secondary education was completed by 37.2% of the employed persons, post-secondary non-tertiary education by 13.8%, lower secondary education (second stage of primary education or basic education) by 6.6%, and first stage of primary education by 0.3%.

Share of managers having higher education rose last year

In 2022 a tenth (11.9%) of the employed persons aged 25 and over occupied manager posts, a third (33.9%) was formed by technicians and associate professionals, almost a fourth (22.3%) by skilled agricultural, forestry and fishery workers as well as craft and related trades workers, and a fifth (19.6%) by clerical support workers as well as service and sales workers. Elementary occupations engaged 12.4% of the number.

The share of employed persons having higher education has gone up in almost all major groups of occupations, however the sharpest rise was recorded among managers (of 1.1 percentage points or from 69.5% in 2021 to 70.6% in 2022). The proportion of employed persons having higher education has also risen among clerical support workers (by 0.8 percentage points or from 41% in 2021 to 41.8% in 2022) and technicians and associate professionals (by 0.6 percentage points or from 58.3% to 58.9%, respectively).

Drop in the share of employed persons with higher education was registered among skilled agricultural, forestry and fishery workers (0.7 percentage points or from 3.3% in 2021 to 2.6% in 2022), moreover similar trend in this occupational group was also observed among those having lower secondary education or lower level (down by 3.2 percentage points or from 24.1% to 20.9%).

Among armed forces occupations, the share of employed persons with higher education has risen by 0.3 percentage points (from 39.2% in 2021 to 39.5% in 2022).

Decline was recorded in the proportion of people engaged in elementary occupations and having lower secondary education or lower (of 1.4 percentage points or from 16.7% to 15.3%) while the share of people having higher education in this occupational group has gone up slightly (from 10.5% to 10.6%).

People having higher education tend to leave labour market later

In 2022 the highest employment rate (92.2%) within population aged 25–64 was among people having doctorate, followed by those with master’s degree (84.1%), bachelor’s degree (82.1%), and short-cycle tertiary education (85.2%).

Similar trend may also be observed within population over working age – out of those who have reached retirement age (64 years in 2022) but stay on the labour market, 48.8% have acquired short-cycle tertiary education and 48.5% doctorate degree. In addition, 39.9% of the number have bachelor’s and 28.9% master’s degree.

The lowest employment rate (8.2% of the population aged 25–64) was registered among people with no formal education or lower than primary education. There may be various reasons behind not acquiring education, e.g., health problems or disabilities, personal or family conditions. Out of the people who had completed first stage of primary education, 37.3% were employed, among those with second stage of primary education (lower secondary or basic education) the share accounted for 52.1%, those with upper secondary education for 66.4%, and those with post-secondary non-tertiary education for 71.5%.

Higher employment rate within population over working age was recorded among people having post-secondary non-tertiary education (22.1%), followed by those having upper secondary education (18.9%), lower secondary education (9.8%), first stage of primary education (3.7%) and no formal education or lower than primary education (2.3%).

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230417ej4h001p5


Russia’s Gazprom receives part of the money from Gaso’s sale
BNN
1542 字
2023 年 4 月 17 日 12:34 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
TV3 programme Nekā personīga decided to look into “political and moral complications” caused by the presence of Russian Gazprom among the shareholders Latvijas gāze (LG). According to LG manager Aigars Kalvītis, Gazprom is eligible to receive some of the money from the sale of Latvia’s strategic natural gas operator Gaso.

In June 2022 LG shareholders wanted to divide up Gaso shares among themselves. However, this was prevented by the adoption of a certain law. Kalvītis reminds that Gazprom has received dividends from membership in LG. Sanctions do not prevent it from happening this year either. He also said Klaipeda gas terminal refused to sign a contract with LG due to Gazprom’s involvement in the company.

LG announced late in the evening on the 14th of April that it found a buyer fir the company’s 100% of shares in Gaso. This buyer is Estonian Eesti Gaas. According to Nekā personīga, Gazprom, as a shareholder in LG, is eligible to receive part of the money to be received from this deal. Sanctions do not prohibit this from happening.

Like every year, Gazprom still received dividends from LG.

Gaso is a company that is highly important for Latvia’s national security, because it is the only one that provides distribution of natural gas in Latvia. The company was founded in 2017, when LG was divided to prevent the lasting monopoly of this company. The division resulted in Conexus, which manages Latvia’s gas pipeline system and Inčukalns underground gas storage facility, and Gaso.

Until now Gaso was 100% owned by LG, which is 34% owned by Russian Gazprom, 16% controlled by Juris Savickis’ Itera Latvija, 28.97% controlled by Marguerite Gas II.S.a.r.l. and 18.26% owned by Uniper Ruhrgas International GmbH.

34% of shares of Itera Latvija are owned by Inter Energia Holdings ApS [owner is Juris Savickis] and 66% of shares are owned by Davonte Holding Limited.

The latter is indirectly owned by Rosneft. Its executive director Igor Sechin is under international sanctions as [Russian President Vladimir] Putin’s close associate.

According to the findings of Aleksei Navalny’s team, Rosneft under Sechin was allegedly involved in the financing of the wine garden in “Putin’s palace complex”. Rosneft Aero, on the other hand, supplies aircraft fuel to Simferopol airport, which provides air traffic between occupied Crimea and mainland Russia.

Last summer Latvia’s Saeima amended the National Security Law. These amendments prohibit Russian and Belarusian companies from acquiring companies important to Latvia’s national security.

Ex-Saeima deputy Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis: “I cannot understand why the Ministry of Economics left LG in its form unchanged. The German government, on the other hand, assumed control over the German branch of Gazprom almost immediately after the start of the war.”

Nekā personīga asks, Constitution Protection Bureau director Egils Zviedris answers:

“What is the opinion of the head of SAB about having such high-ranking Russian citizens being in the council of such a strategically important Latvian company?”

-Here we should clarify that LG is one of several energy resource traders and is not a strategic company. Gaso would be a strategically important company, which is the operator of the distribution network. It is also a subsidiary of LG’s.

“But the fact that representatives of such an influential Russian company are members of Latvijas Gāze’s council, what does it mean?”

-I say again – LG is a private company. There aren’t just Russian companies on the council there. There are also the German Marguerite and German Uniper gas there. This means it is the decision of shareholders who is and who isn’t on the council. But as I’ve already said – the rights of these people in making decisions are very limited.

The moment Gaso’s sale process concluded, LG became free of the National Security Law’s restrictions in regards to participation from Russian and Belarusian citizens.

Gazprom representatives can once again participate in shareholder meetings and decide on selling gas in Latvia.

As LG reported last Friday, the company will receive EUR 120 million plus interest for Gaso until the deal is done. The sale is planned to conclude by the end of the year. Ministry of Economics, which is responsible for the gas sector, believes LG shareholder should not receive any money for this deal.

The programme asks, Minister of Economics Ilze Indriksone (National Alliance) answers:

“How can we be sure the holder of 34% of shares in this company – Gazprom – does not receive any money from this deal?”

-This is definitely everyone’s responsibility – both the employees’ and managers’ responsibility – to make sure this funding or income received as a result of the sale does not end up in the hands of sanctioned persons. We also have legislation everyone must follow, regardless of country of origin or beliefs. The law is equal to everyone.

Indriksone continues: “There is definitely some work for institutions supervising the financial sector. We have to limit the way in which it is allowed to perform transactions. Everything will be followed carefully. I believe supervision should be as strict as responsibility.”

LG board chairman Aigars Kalvītis told Nekā personīga that there aren’t any restrictions that can prohibit Gazprom receive money from Gaso’s sale, as the company is a shareholder. There is no clarity about Itera Latvija as the moment.

The programme asks, Aigars Kalvītis answers:

Can the sanctions currently in place prevent the payment of money to the shareholder called Gazprom?

-Currently Gazprom is not under sanctions, so they are not under restrictions here. We do not have any information about it being otherwise.

This means that if shareholders decide the profits from Gaso’s sale should be paid to shareholders…

-Let’s not use the word “profits”. There is no profit from selling a company. An asset is being exchanged for money. Payment of the money – the current sanction regime does not prohibit it from being paid to Gazprom. The same for dividends.

So Gazprom has already received dividends for last year and will receive for this year as well.

-Shareholders have yet to decide on 2022. Decisions will likely come around May or June. As for 2021, Gazprom has received its dividends, yes.

Will Itera have the same opportunity to receive the money?

-Well, these questions should be asked to supervisory institutions.

Well, we just want to be on the ball if there is such an opportunity.

-I cannot answer this question at this time, because

this topic is regulated by the Bank of Latvia and former Capital Market and Capital Market Commission.

We are in close contact with them. They look into these deals and permit them.

Gazprom’s dividends are paid to Gazprom’s bank account, or do they have something else?

-I cannot answer the question which account receives the money. I believe Gazprom has a securities account in one of Latvia’s banks.

Kalvītis explains further:

“At some point our shareholders wanted to reorganise Gaso, but then the Saeima adopted amendments to the National Security Law. This meant reorganisation was no longer possible. The reason is because Russian shareholders were no longer allowed to be shareholders in Gaso.”

Then the plans to divide Gaso was present after the start of the war?

”Yes,” Kalvītis said.

And what was the argument in favour of it?

“Simply put, Gaso would have been reorganised the same way LG had previously reorganised Conexus. Every shareholder was able to sell their shares. Then Gazprom would enter the strategic company. Directly.”

He reluctantly confirmed that Lithuanian liquefied natural gas terminal in Klaipeda refused to sign a contract with LG. The reason – the presence of Kremlin-controlled company.

Do we have the option to procure gas from Klaipeda?

“Of course – we have the option to purchase gas from the secondary market; we just lack a direct contract with Klaipeda. We do have a direct contract with Inkoo [LNG terminal in Finland]. We can procure gas from Inkoo and we can procure gas that is sold in Klaipeda’s secondary market.”

There is no contract because they refused to sign one?

“Yes,” the chairman of LG confirmed.

Why?

“It is difficult for me to say. Looking at our shareholders and the situation, they refused to sign. We have to keep in mind that there is a great deal of competition. There are many interested parties.”

But did you consult with shareholders? Perhaps you have some information as to what will happen once Gaso is sold? Is Gazprom still interested in staying here and doing business with LG. Perhaps they are thinking about other models, such as selling shares?

“I believe the first step is resolving this Gaso problem. Once it is done, every shareholder will have an idea of what to do, because LG will become a commercial company. But not every shareholder has strategic interests in being in a commercial company. We can expect certain changes in the future. But it is hard to say how long they might last.”

Also read: Latvenergo considers acquiring Gaso

The post Russia’s Gazprom receives part of the money from Gaso’s sale appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020230417ej4h0005n


BRITISH NATIONALS ARE NOT SAFE IN RUSSIA, WARNS MP AFTER KREMLIN CRITIC JAILED
By Martina Bet and Ben Hatton, PA Political Staff
723 字
2023 年 4 月 17 日 16:41 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2023, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
British nationals are not safe in Russia, a senior MP has warned, after a British-Russian opposition leader was jailed for 25 years by a Moscow court.

Conservative MP Alicia Kearns, who chairs the Commons Foreign Affairs Committee, urged the Government to call any British nationals living in Russia home.

She described the sentencing of outspoken Kremlin critic Vladimir Kara-Murza as "a farce" and said ministers should be "working to get him out".

Mr Kara-Murza, who has twice survived poisonings, was convicted on charges of treason and denigrating the Russian military in what he denounced as a show trial.

The judge who presided over the trial, Sergei Podoprigorov, has already been sanctioned by Britain for what it called previous involvement in human rights violations.

Asking an urgent question in the Commons on Mr Kara-Murza's sentencing, Ms Kearns pressed the Government on whether it would "sanction the 29 individuals responsible for him being held".

The Rutland and Melton MP added: "Will (the minister) also call for all British nationals to return home? It is not safe any more to remain in Russia."

Foreign Office minister Andrew Mitchell said officials are investigating the possibility of sanctioning everyone involved in the trial.

He said: "The Government condemn the politically motivated sentencing of Mr Kara-Murza and of all those who speak out against Russia's invasion of Ukraine."

On the issue of sanctions, Mr Mitchell added: "We have already sanctioned the judge and the jailer under the Magnitsky propositions because they were involved in that case.

"And I have instructed officials to investigate the possibility of sanctioning everyone who was involved in this trial. And we expect, within the next week, to come forward with a package of further measures in this respect."

Later on during the urgent question, Labour's Stephen Kinnock told MPs he is "truly honoured" to call Mr Kara-Murza a "friend" and also urged the Government to step up to the plate and sanction more individuals.

The Aberavon MP said: "I first became aware of Vladimir Kara-Murza when I was the director of the British Council in St Petersburg from 2005 to 2008. And since I came to this place, I've got to know him. I'm truly honoured to call him a friend.

"The last time I met him here in Parliament, I begged him not to go back to Russia but he said to me: 'Stephen, I'm a patriot and I believe that my country will one day be free, and I have to campaign and fight for the values that we hold there'."

He added: "I have to say I am baffled by the fact that Kara-Murza is a British citizen and yet it is countries like the United States and Canada and Latvia that have stepped up to the plate and have sanctioned these 29 officials who are involved in this monstrous persecution of Vladimir and yet the UK Government has sat on its hands.

"Can the minister just try and shed some light on why that is? Why it is that there's a British citizen languishing now in a jail in Russia? Other countries have taken action on sanctions, and our Government hasn't."

On sanctions, Mr Mitchell reiterated that he will "report back in due course when we have determined whether that is possible or not".

Conservative MP for Henley John Howell said he also regards Mr Kara-Murza as a friend, adding: "We have had him here on a number of occasions to speak to the Council of Europe delegation.

"This is a travesty of human rights but with Russia no longer part of the Council of Europe and as part of the European Court of Human Rights, how are we going to make sure that our view of human rights applies in this case?"

The Foreign Office minister said the Government will do "everything we can to ensure that Mr Kara-Murza is freed as swiftly as possible and that we, together with our international allies and like-minded other nations, do everything we can to bear down on his case and the other cases which so disfigure the reputation of Russia".

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020230417ej4h008c1


Private jet sold by Latvian company taken to Russia via Lithuania in possible circumvention of existing sanctions - media
LETA/BNS/TBT Staff
253 字
2023 年 4 月 17 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS - Three private jets have been granted permission to fly from Lithuania to Russia this year, and Lithuania's airspace may be used to circumvent the existing international sanctions to bring aircraft purchased in Europe to Russia, the Lithuanian public broadcaster LRT's Investigation Team reports.

A Beechcraft B24R Sierra, which arrived in Kaunas from Spain via Poland on March 31 and left for Pskov on April 2, is currently being sold in Moscow. The Lithuanian Transport Safety Administration, which issued the permit for the flight from Kaunas to Russia, says the existing international sanctions were not violated in this case.

According to the LRT, the private plane was sold by Latvian company Fly Sky and was used in Spain by FlyUp Academy, a pilot training academy FlyUp Academy. Fly Sky's sole shareholder is Aviaserviso Grupe, a company registered in Vilnius and led by a Lithuanian national who also led Spain's FlyUp Academy until August, 2021.

A Lithuanian pilot and a Kazakh-Russian businessman running businesses in Lithuania were involved in this possible sanction evasion scheme that is now being investigated by Lithuania's Financial Crime Investigation Service, the LRT reports.

Planes were also allowed to fly to Pskov from Lithuania not only on April 2, but also on January 14 and March 15.

Western sanctions imposed after Russia's attack on Ukraine bans sale of airplanes to Russia.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230509ej4h00050


Lithuania splits EU's Rosatom sanctions into seven parts, has no plans to step back
BNS/TBT Staff
268 字
2023 年 4 月 18 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS - As the European Union mulls a new package of restrictions on Russia, Lithuania suggests splitting the sanctions on Rosatom into separate parts and decide on each of them separately, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis says.

"We had earlier suggested Rosatom as a company, but we failed to garner support due to a very principled veto by several countries. Now we have detailed our proposal, in other words, we have split the proposal into, I believe, seven parts," Landsbergis told reporters at the Seimas on Tuesday.

In his words, the proposal on sanctions for Russia's nuclear corporation Rosatom was built on the "onion principle".

"We can peel it off and leave as many sanctions as can be agreed. Ideally, we should agree on all seven measures: sanctions for board members, new contracts (...)," Lithuania's top diplomat said. "But if we failed agree on one of them, we can peel it off and stick to some smaller compromise option."

In his words, the adoption of even one restrictive measure would be a "step forward".

"We have no plans to step back, we are looking for a compromise, we are mobilizing a compromise," Landsbergis said.

The EU has already announced ten sanction packages for Russia since it invaded Ukraine in late February, 2022, and they cover banks, senior officials and companies.

The EU is currently negotiating an 11th sanction package for the Kremlin, and Lithuania wants to ensure that Rosatom is included in it one way or another.

Click to view image[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/157812_480470476643e9344d4d1a_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230509ej4i0003x


Czech Foreign Minister to focus on security affairs in Latvia
225 字
2023 年 4 月 20 日 15:04 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, April 20 (CTK) - Security affairs are one of the key aspects of Czech-Latvian relations, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) told journalists today, adding that he is going to talk about them with his Latvian counterpart Edgars Rinkevics in Riga on Friday.

Lipavsky said he plans to discuss the response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, cooperation in the European Union as well as China, the Indo-Pacific and sanctions with Rinkevics.

"Latvia is a model for us on sanction issues, so we will discuss the functioning of the Magnitsky Act and how we can help each other," he said. Last year, the Czech Republic adopted a law that allows the creation of a national sanctions list.

Lipavsky will also be received by Edvards Smiltens, the speaker of the Latvian parliament Saeima.

His programme will also include a visit to the Adazi military base where he will meet members of the Czech engineering unit deployed there as part of NATO's enhanced forward presence in Latvia.

In February, Czech Defence Minister Jana Cernochova (Civic Democrats, ODS), Chief of Staff Karel Rehka and a group of Czech lawmakers visited this unit in Adazi. The multinational battlegroup is tasked with reinforcing the Alliance's eastern border in response to Russia's aggressive advance.

kva/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230420ej4k0000f


Lithuanian MPs to decide on whether to impose same sanctions for Russians, Belarusians
BNS/TBT Staff
562 字
2023 年 4 月 20 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – The Lithuanian parliament is set on Thursday to deice what national sanctions to impose on Russian and Belarusian citizens over the war in Ukraine as they will vote on whether to accept or override President Gitanas Nauseda's veto and proposal to introduce the same restrictions for Russians and Belarusian, or to keep the previously adopted decision on fewer restrictions on Belarusians.

According to the president, Belarus, just like Russia, is taking part in the military aggression against Ukraine and poses an evener greater threat to Lithuania's national security interests than Russia.

Meanwhile, the ruling block and part of the Seimas opposition are inclined to override the presidential veto, saying that Belarusian citizens cannot be treated the same as the Russian society supporting the war in Ukraine.

Speaking on Tuesday, Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis, the leader of the ruling conservative Homeland Union – Lithuanian Christian Democrats, said Russian and Belarusian citizens could not be treated equally as the latter "are fighting for freedom and democracy". In his words, the Belarusians "have what we would call a spiritual sovereignty".

"Hundreds of thousands of people turned to the streets in 2020 to fight against the regime. We have not seen such efforts in Russia," he said.

At least 71 out of 141 Lithuanian MPs needs to vote in favor to override a presidential veto.

The Seimas of Lithuania adopted the law on restrictive measures in view of military aggression against Ukraine in early April. Under this law, Russian and Belarusian citizens would be subject to four sanctions until early May, 2024, and another three would be in place for Russian citizens only.

The president vetoed the law and suggest introducing the same restrictions for both Russian and Belarusian nationals, including the refusal to issue visas and temporary residence permits to live in Lithuania, except for cases mediated by a government-authorized institution or in cases when those citizens already have a visa or residence permit in Lithuania or another EU country.

Moreover, citizens of both countries entering Lithuania via the EU's external border would be subject to additional individual in-depth checks. They would also not be granted e-resident status and barred form purchasing real estate in Lithuania.

Nauseda also proposes adding an additional sanction to the law: Russian and Belarusian citizens who have been found guilty by courts of violating international sanctions or restrictive measures would be considered a threat to national security, public order and human health. According to the presidential office, this would make it easier to revoke national visas and residence permits issued

In addition, Russians and Belarusians will not be able to bring Ukrainian hryvnias in and out of Lithuania from the beginning of May until May, 2024

Belarusian opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, who lives in Vilnius, had asked for lighter restrictions for Belarusians.

According to the Migration Department, almost 49,000 Belarusian citizens were living in Lithuania at the beginning of this year, and most of them fled repression by the Lukashenko regime after the 2020 post-election mass demonstrations.

The law on national sanctions will replace the Seimas resolution imposing a state of emergency on the Russian-Belarusian border, which expires in early May. It contains some of the restrictions that have now been transposed into the law.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230509ej4k0003g


BNN INTERVIEW | Ventspils sea port will no longer be Lembergs’ “dairy cow”, Kristovskis says
BNN
2570 字
2023 年 4 月 24 日 12:45 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
The sea port reform was postponed for a year. This is why the “victims” have started attempts to convince society that this is the first step to recognise it a legislative failure and have it cancelled. The initiator of the reform – Conservative Party – is no longer in the government or the Saeima. The party is slowly drying out without the comfort of the state budget. However, “things won’t go smoothly”.

Ventspils Sea Port authority’s deputy chairman Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis (represents New Unity, Ministry of Finance, and a member of Ventspils City Council), who is one of the most energetic and, perhaps, the harshest supporters of the reform.

What is your opinion of the Saeima’s decision to postpone the reform until the end of the year? Do you think it could be “postponed indefinitely”?

-As far as I know, the government has no intention to drop the sea port reform. Because opponents have tried to slow it very intently, delaying it for a year is completely objective. Additionally, the speed of the reform, related aspects and resolution of certain processes requires a great deal of commitment.

When creating capital associations, there needs to be clarity in regards to the ownership of property located within sea port territory, as well as the will and ability of owners to invest their assets into the capital association. The situation in every port city and municipality for guaranteed participation in management of capital associations varies.

Situations vary. Riga municipality, unlike Ventspils, does not have major property within the territory of its sea port, and they have a shortage of capital to invest. As far as I know, this means there is little enthusiasm for the reform there. This means Minister of Transport Jānis Vitenbergs has limited options.

What is your impression of the minister’s previous meeting with sea port authorities and businessmen operating from sea ports in January?

-My impression is that the minister is energetic and is committed to reaching the objectives of the reform. But he still needs to finish the homework left unfinished by the previous minister. He also needs to deal with various obstacles in the way of the reform.

You are against the participation of municipalities in management of large sea ports, because this could restore [ex-mayor of Ventspils] Aivars Lembergs’ and his group’s economic power over Ventspils sea port. Is there such a risk if businessmen become involved in port management?

-I should say immediately that this is a slight misunderstanding. It’s the opposite. I am confident municipalities have to participate in management of major sea ports. But only if they do their duties honestly. We can see this is not the case when we look at the history of Ventspils Freeport. US OFAC had imposed sanctions on Lembergs and Ventspils Freeport. This indicates the presence of serious corruption interests of the municipal government, their negative influence on the sea port’s operations and development. But if we distance ourselves from this catastrophic experience, it should be said municipal governments and sea ports should maintain the best possible relations and create the most optimal mechanisms for cooperation in sea port management. There are no doubts about it. All sides would benefit from it.

Until the end of 2019 two Ventspils City Council officials Aivars Lembergs and Jānis Vītoliņš were also in charge of Ventspils Freeport. The sea port management process was practiced to allow them to keep everything under their control. As a result, the board of Ventspils Freeport was only in charge of signing final decisions. Problems experienced by sea port businesses and all details were resolve behind the backs of ministries’ representatives.

Often the representatives of the state from different political parties had no in-depth understanding of how sea ports operate could not even understand the difficulties experienced by businesses. So they were sidelined, given roles of observers, whereas representatives of the municipal administration were handed the reins.

As a result – Ventsils Freeport became a dairy cow for decades. Its funds were used to maintain the city’s infrastructure, develop a high-technologies centre and an industrial area, as well as sports and culture. At the same time, there was a shortage of funding to help develop the sea port and increase its competitiveness. These include digitisation of the sea port’s operations and procurement of important equipment.

Ventspils Freeport’s competitiveness was limited due to the shortage of funds to afford improvement of its main functions. The city’s rich, glorious, celebrated life was often formed at the expense of the sea port’s, its terminals’ and businesses’ competitiveness.

Let’s not forget that only after a foreign intervention – the sanctions imposed on Lembergs by OFAC in 2019 – was the Latvian government forced to act. Only then the government decided to drive representatives of municipal administrations from Ventspils and Riga sea port boards. Because it was clear to everyone, the root of all evil – more or less – was the officials representing municipalities, who were often dominating in sea port authorities.

I’m sorry, but this wasn’t the case for Riga in the past?

-Hard to believe. There was too much respect for the capital city, or rather the dependence on hidden financial support from Ventspils Sea port. I may have been the only one who, after approval in the board of Ventspils Freeport, proposed dismissing Lembergs from the post of chairman at the very first meeting (spring of 2019).

I outlined his status as suspect in severe influence and financial crimes, as well as the risks of this situation causing irreparable damage to the reputation of Ventspils Freeport. The vote on my proposal, as expected, was rejected with 1:7. It seems none of the representatives of the state had previously attempted anything so challenging the past.

Several months later, these reputation risks, which I had mentioned to the board earlier, were confirmed in full. The consequences then spread to numerous businesses operation from Ventspils Freeport.

I believe that after all representatives of the municipal administration were driven from Ventspils Freeport authority, the business relations between the board, authority and port businesses have improved radically.

The sea port functions well only if each side honestly performs its duties. The authority is responsible for sea port maintenance, development and competition, as well as dictates fees and infrastructure rent tariffs. It ensures honest competition among port businesses, which, in turn, operate with attraction of freight, its handling and storage, as well as other related services.

But all sea port functions have to be divided. The practice of sea port businessmen, representatives of associations participate in sea port management do exist at certain European sea ports, without domination of course. If you find the right justifications and transparency, all sides will be satisfied and such an approach is welcome. What’s important is the dialogue, exchange of information on the most important business activities of economic operators and the points of contact for the development of port infrastructure, the interests of the city residents and the municipality and the measures to be taken.

How popular is the idea of not having the sea port serve “as a dairy cow” any more?

-Residents of Ventspils do not base their living environment on objective evaluation of the city’s management. The city seems stable at first glance – perhaps not too alive. However, it is enough. Residents are primarily interested in the external shape of the urban environment, so that it “lasts forever”. The ethical and moral aspects of power are have become less important.

The information they receive is often politicised and manipulated to serve narrow interests. As a result of this, people who live in a port city are not too enthusiastic to analyse the “truth” about the problems of the transit sector.

In most cases it is not objective at all. Everything is filtered using the same prism: bad government, bad politicians hitting our politicians that have done so much good for Ventspils! […] Newspaper Ventas Balss tells residents: the ones in the board are from Riga. They do bad things. And if they don’t they are still passive and knowledgeable about the local situation.

Just how much money Ventspils City Council has taken from the freeport using their power?

-This would be pure speculation. Ventspils high technologies park and industrial zone, dozens of the city’s streets, bridges, urban environment infrastructure and maintenance was created using millions of investments from Ventspils Freeport, bank loans and interest.

Russian and Belarusian transit policy, sanctions and the pandemic a couple of years ago caused a loss of freight to 11 million tonnes from the usual 19-20 million tonnes. This is why Ventspils Freeport authority had to switch into maximum austerity regime. We decided to not entertain residents – this was EUR 2-3 million every year. This money went to basketball, soccer and other sports and culture events. We also had to stop financing various local entertainment activities.

The city criticised the freeport for that all the time. People believe this opinion was put into people’s minds, that after the municipal administration was driven from the freeport, it turned completely away from Ventspils residents. This is not the case. Before throwing the first stone, people should keep in mind what the prosecutor in Lembergs’ legendary criminal case said in this context.

Materials of the case contain evidence of plundering of more than EUR 500 million. A significant amount can be attributed to Ventspils sea port businesses, indirectly to the freeport’s authority. You could likely afford a modern floating excavator to maintain the port’s canal with that money.

What is your opinion on the position from the Combined List – that municipalities should be represented in management of Latvia’s three largest sea ports?

-I believe the roots of the Combined List are in Liepāja. The relations shared by the city’s administration, Liepāja Sea Port’s Special Economic Zone and local businesses are far more rational and balanced when compared with Ventspils. The situation there, looking from the side, is without any significant disproportion and distortion.

On top of that, Liepāja was developed as a commercial port from the ground up after restoration of independence [of Latvia]. The municipality and businesses worked together to achieve that. There were clearly fewer hidden interests there. People in Liepāja understand the importance of cooperation.

In Ventspils the situation was different. The local government received from the USSR a large commercial port, which was then in dominant position at the time, complete with infrastructure and strategic freight suppliers.

What do you think the majority of Ventspils City Council could do? Will the municipality step up with their own investments for the new capital association?

-The city council hopes to restore dominance over Ventspils sea port. They will do whatever they can to come back. This means they will buy as much time as they can, knowing the sea port reform is nearing completion. If the minister of transport or the government make it clear – either you are shareholders or stay out – they will have to decide on jumping onto the departing train.

But until it is clear what influence Ventspils City Council could potentially recover, the status quo will remain.

How would you – a politician from the PM’s party and a veteran of Latvian politics – see your chances of promoting the sea port reform? Can you prevent the possible cancellation of the reform?

-The policy is composed on the government level. I can only voice my own opinion here. The sea port reform is a very complicated process, which is further complicated by geopolitics. There is the opinion that the Ministry of Transport should be the one to deal with it. As a representative of the ministry I have instructions to follow the minister’s guidelines.

Have you thought a lot about the Prime Minister’s opinion that transit is unimportant?

-Definitely! If someone in Ventspils finds a reason to bash him for what he said about the situation with the sea port, it applies to me as well. After “earning” sanctions from OFAC Lembergs has not been lazy in his own assessments of the situation at the sea port.

The government’s opinion about the future of the transit industry is composed from information about Russia’s transit policy, which is unfriendly towards Baltic sea ports, as well as geopolitics and the reality of the sanction regime. Transit from eastern countries will never again become as important as it was twenty or thirty years ago. We shouldn’t think bad of the PM if he says the government will not give this and other related sectors any money or time of day.

The government has openly said the future of the transit sector is in the hands of the people who work there. If businesses and terminals succeed in attracting freight – best of luck to them! Currently no one in the government will put the interests of the transit and sea port industry above the big topics – war/peace in Ukraine, sanctions against Russia and Belarus, and fundamental values of the Euro-Atlantic space.

I am a patriot of my city and the freeport. We in the board are doing all we can to provide support to Ventspils businesses, but we cannot protect them from empty docks and reservoirs during a war.

If the regime in Russia changes, the western world will try to improve things. A dialogue will commence and sanctions will disappear. Part of Russian freight could return to Ventspils. I would like to believe that.

Do you think the sea port reform will be implemented successfully?

-The current large sea port management system in Latvia was well-intended formally, but it was poorly implemented, perhaps even intentionally poorly controlled. Any, even the best possible initiative is implemented, or in this case interfered with, by specific people, hidden interests. This is enough to ruin any, even the most optimal management system. This is something reformers should definitely keep in mind.

The new sea port capital associations will definitely be flawed. But the future should be shaped by professionals capable of resisting various corruption temptations. Then they will definitely accomplish great results and justify the goals of the reform.

This won’t be a simple task. The transit policy employed by Russia and Belarus, the war in Ukraine, sanctions will negatively affect the turnover at Baltic and Latvian sea ports. This means freeports’, port businesses’, state and municipal interests will have to be adapted.

In this situation it will not be a simple task for the next management of Ventspils Freeport to “stay afloat”. Various speculations will likely continue. The municipal council will likely want to recover its dominant position and start funneling millions from the sea port again. But the municipality itself might experience changes on its own in the future. One way or another, the new capital association will have to demonstrate a will and ability to balance interests of the city and the port. If they succeed and geopolitical process become positive, the reform will have succeeded.

Also read: BNN INTERVIEW | Jānis Vitenbergs: a minister cannot work separately from the industry

The post BNN INTERVIEW | Ventspils sea port will no longer be Lembergs’ “dairy cow”, Kristovskis says appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020230424ej4o0008g


Leaked documents suggest Russia makes attempts to influence Baltic States
LETA
826 字
2023 年 4 月 26 日 12:03 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Documents leaked from the Kremlin reaffirm observed attempts by Russia to reinforce influence over Baltic States.

According to classified documents accessed by Baltic investigative journalism centre Re:Baltica, Russia had planned to create new NGOs to support Russia’s policy and prevent NATO from gaining a foothold in the region,

prevent transition to education in Latvian language only and prevent Latvia’s disconnection of Russia’s power network, provide Russian language with official language status. These are but some of the plans listed in the leaked documents as strategically important in Latvia until the year 2030.

According to Re:Baltica, the leaked classified documents were written by offices of Russian President’s Administration responsible for Kremlin’s activities of influence in Baltic States.

Two years ago the Constitution Protection Bureau (SAB) allowed these offices of the Russian President’s Administration provide “recommendations in the Kremlin’s strategic decision-making processes even though they are not involved in them.” The leaked documents confirm this.

Certain offices provided strategic advice and developed them, Re:Baltica reports.

Documents were allegedly composed before Russia’s invasion of Ukraine – in summer of autumn of 2021. They detail the main objectives and potential threats to their implementation in Baltic States (similarly to the previously leaked documents about plans in Belarus and Moldova).

Each document has three parts – political, military and security; economics and trade; humanitarian goals.

They also have specific time frames: short (by 2022), medium (by 2025) and long-term (2030).

Re:Baltica reports that the documents do not mention any specific people or organisations that were planned to be used to implement any specific strategies. When asked if SAB has information on any political forces that may be involved, the service had this to say: “Kremlin’s strategy before and after the war is forming a dialogue with the powers interested in it, and economic benefits are often the lead motif.”

The document indicates that, for example,

by the year 2025, Russia had planned to prevent NATO from gaining a foothold in Latvia. The country also planned to form relations with leaders from moderately centrist political parties supported by Latvians and Russians.

Russia also planned to open a Russia-founded school in Latvia by the year 2025. This school was to become a centre for language and culture.

Russia also wanted to protect Russian citizens and state property from sanctions and confiscation.

In a long-term perspective Russia had planned a mass non-self-government problem’s solution in Latvia, Latvia’s participation in a political union with Russia, mutual trade and economic cooperation, as well as establish Russian language as second official language.

Documents also mention that preservation of Soviet monuments played a major part in prevention of glorification of Nazism in Baltic States.

Similar plans were listed in documents in relation to Estonia. For example, Russia planned to form a negative public opinion about NATO's presence, establish strong pro-Russian influence groups in among the political, military and business elite in the country.

Additionally, Russia had planned to form a beneficial information background in Estonia, increase exports from Russia, and increase transport communication level in border regions.

In Lithuania Russia planned to create conditions under which Lithuanian government would find the growing presence of NATO as problematic.

Russia wanted to “restore constructive relations” with Lithuania. Restoration of relations applied to the military sector as well.

Russia also had plans for the preservation of Russian schools and Soviet monuments in Lithuania as well.

Re:Baltica concluded that although the war ruined many of Russia’s plans in the Baltic States, the country has not refused them.

It was reported that SAB predicted last year Russia would try to at least partially restore the number of spies in its diplomatic offices. SAB also predicted a possible increase of the number of traveling spies.

Last year Russian intelligence services continued aggressive efforts against Western nations, including EU and NATO member states. Their main objective is information collection and various influence operations in order to change Russia’s image in the eyes of Western nations and weaken political elites that are negative towards Russia.

Last year Russian intelligence services’ efforts were mostly dictated by the war in Ukraine. The priority was Western countries’ reaction to Russia’s invasion, including interest for the political reaction and formulation of positions, preparedness to provide support to Ukraine, unity of the international community and coordination of nations’ activities.

Military aid and supplies to Ukraine were and will remain at the top of Russian intelligence services’ priorities.

Russian intelligence services actively worked on following Western nations’ decisions in regards to anti-Russian sanctions last year. Intelligence services have a very important role in creating sanction-circumvention schemes, SAB concluded.

Also read: EU to send mission to Moldova

The post Leaked documents suggest Russia makes attempts to influence Baltic States appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020230426ej4q0008d


Foreign Ministry's official underscores necessity to prevent efforts to circumvent sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus
Inese Trenča
318 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日 11:15 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
RIGA, April 28 (LETA) - On April 27-28, Political Directors from the foreign services of the Baltic States, the Nordic countries and the United States of America gathered in Riga for their e-PINE (Enhanced Partnership in Northern Europe) meeting, LETA learned from the Latvian Foreign Ministry.

The Political Directors discussed issues related to Russia’s war on Ukraine, challenges posed by the war to the rules-based international order and transatlantic security, preparations for the meeting of NATO Heads of State and Government in Vilnius this coming July, and relations with China.

An exchange of views was held on developments in the Eastern Neighborhood, Central Asia and the Western Balkans, especially in the context of the consequences of the war in Ukraine. The officials also discussed the role of Belarus in Russia’s war on Ukraine. Latvia was represented at the meeting by the Under Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Political Director Andzejs Vilumsons.

Speaking about the sanction policy, Vilumsons highlighted the importance of close coordination to prevent the efforts to circumvent sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus. He reiterated Latvia’s position on the need to hold Russia accountable for the crime of aggression against Ukraine, including by setting up a special international tribunal.

The participants agreed on the need to continue military and other support to Ukraine. They expressed hope that Sweden would also become a member of NATO before the NATO summit in Vilnius.

The e-PINE initiative was launched in 2003 in order to enhance the U.S. cooperation with the Baltic States and the Nordic region. Political Directors from Ministries of Foreign Affairs meet twice a year. The main fields of cooperation in the e-PINE format are security policy, relations with neighboring countries and the development of economic relations.

38433230383141412D453133372D3439

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230428ej4s00105


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10917
Justina Vaišvilaitė
4769 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10917 (95323) FRIDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL 28

Next highlights to be published on Tuesday, 2 May, as 1 May is a public holiday in Lithuania.

 

PRESIDENT OPENED LITHUANIA-ITALY GREEN INDUSTRY BUSINESS FORUM IN ROME

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda is paying a working visit to Rome, Italy, where on Friday he opened Lithuania-Italy Business Forum on green technologies and the manufacture of innovative products, the presidency said in a press release.

The Business Forum was attended by the Italian Minister of Economic Development, Adolfo Urso, as well as representatives of business associations, authorities and companies from both countries.

Speaking at the event, the president highlighted the long-standing trade relations between Lithuania and Italy and the growing export volumes. Nausėda also underlined the strengths of Lithuania’s investment climate and called on the business communities of both countries to make greater use of the mutual cooperation opportunities.

The president also discussed with the participants of the forum the European Union’s ambitions to speed up the development of net-zero industry and the opportunities for closer bilateral cooperation.

"The EU is experiencing a renaissance in the manufacturing sector, focusing on the manufacture of zero-carbon products and green technologies. Lithuania has all the necessary preconditions to become one of the leaders in this field in the EU. The Business Forum in Rome is an excellent opportunity for Lithuanian businesses to showcase the advantages of the country, to strengthen existing and establish new contacts with Italian companies,” President Nausėda spoke.

The Lithuanian business community was represented by companies specialising in the production of renewable energy products, environmentally friendly means of transport and related components, electronics and IoT products and services, circular economy business models and other areas.

 

LITHUANIAN NGO SIENOS GRUPĖ TO APPLY TO EU COURT OVER MIGRANT PUSHBACK LAW

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – Lithuanian NGO Sienos grupė (Border Group) intends to apply to the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) asking to review the law on the policy of turning away migrants, which has been strongly criticised by human rights activists.

On Friday, volunteers from the NGO staged a protest in Daukantas square, in front of the Presidential Palace, to draw the attention of the president to the controversial legislation.

"The legislative process is complicated and time-consuming. I am confident that there will be the will – in the same way that the law on the legal status of foreigners was referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union – and I would certainly say that it is only a matter of time before we ask the Court to clarify whether this law is not in breach of European law,” a volunteer from Sienos grupė, Emilija Švobaitė, told reporters.

There has been a suggestion to turn to the Constitutional Court, too, she added.

According to the NGO, the law introduces a policy of pushing back migrants within the border area without providing for adequate legal protection for foreign nationals. Švobaitė has no doubt that Lithuania may be slammed by the European Court of Human Rights for insufficient safeguards to handle collective expulsions and protect the right to life.

The protesters say they initially planned to demand a veto from Gitanas Nausėda, but the president has already signed the law. Now they rallied outside the building on Friday to express their dissatisfaction and disapproval of Nausėda’s decision.

Nobody from the Office of the President has showed up to talk to the activists, Švobaitė regretted.

The president himself is on a working visit to Italy on Friday.

 

PROTEST AGAINST PUSHBACKS OF IRREGULAR MIGRANTS HELD NEAR PRESIDENTIAL PALACE

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – On Friday, representatives of the Lithuanian Human Rights Centre (LŽTC) and volunteers from the organisation Sienos grupė (the Border Group) held a protest near against pushbacks of irregular migrants.

The Lithuanian Parliament has passed and President Gitanas Nausėda has signed a law regulating pushback policies. Protesting against this law several dozen people stretched a roll of razor wire near the Presidential Palace, they also carried banners criticising the law and played drums. Some banners were aimed specifically against MP Laurynas Kasčiūnas, chair of the Seimas Committee on National Security and Defence, and Agnė Bilotaitė, minister of the interior.

Activists claim that the law would prevent irregular migrants from applying for international protection, while their needs of emergency medical aid and asylum would not be assessed on a case-by-case basis.

They also oppose the creation of border guard supporters, claiming that extremists and far-right radicals would use this opportunity "to engage in violence against migrating people who are striving for international protection”.

Activists are also concerned that access to the border area would be restricted for Lithuanian citizens and this would effectively prevent human rights organisations from rendering humanitarian aid.

The protesters had sought to ask President Nausėda to veto the law, but he signed it on 26 April.

Since the start of the migrant crisis caused by Belarus in 2021, Lithuania’s State Border Guard Service (VSAT) has thwarted more than 20,000 illegal border crossing attempts by migrants, mostly from the Middle East and Africa, via Belarus.

As reported, the law is due to enter into force on 3 May. The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) will be legally able to turn away migrants attempting to cross the border unlawfully during an emergency and state of emergency. A possibility is also established to restrict the entry of irregular migrants through specific border control posts.

Border guards will be able to detain asylum seekers who cross the border unlawfully. It will be possible to turn away irregular migrants only in the border area, within 5 km from the state border.

Migrants will still be able to submit asylum applications regardless of whether they accessed the country lawfully or not. The law also provides for exemptions for refugees fleeing from war or persecution, or seeking to enter the country on humanitarian grounds. Those denied entry would be provided emergency medical aid and other humanitarian assistance.

 

FORMER FIRST LADY ADAMKIENĖ ADMITTED TO HOSPITAL

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – Former first lady Alma Adamkienė, 96, has been admitted to hospital. Former president Valdas Adamkus, 96, told reporters that his wife had an operation.

He denied rumours to reporters of the public broadcaster LRT that his spouse had a stroke.

News website lrytas.lt reported that Adamkienė was brought to Santaros Clinics in Vilnius on Thursday. The president’s representative Božena Bagonaitienė later confirmed this information to the news agency ELTA.

According to sources of lrytas.lt, Adamkienė suffered a stroke.

Vilnius University Santaros Clinics said in a statement that tests were performed and Adamkienė was diagnosed with restriction of blood flow to the brain and surgeons had to perform a complex interventional procedure to restore blood flow.

Adamkienė remains in hospital for further treatment. On Friday, the hospital described her condition as serious but stable.

Last September, both the former president and first lady contracted coronavirus. At the time Adamkienė was treated for COVID-19 in hospital and for some time remained in an intensive care unit.

 

OPPOSITION’S POLITICAL GROUPS FAIL TO AGREE ON OPPOSITION LEADER

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – The news website delfi.lt reported Thursday that three political groups of the opposition were holding talks to elect the opposition leader. Delfi learned about this from MP Agnė Širinskienė, chairwoman of the group of non-attached MPs that joined the opposition recently. According to her, non-attached MPs would cooperate with Democrats For Lithuania and the Labour Party to appoint the opposition leader. Yet Labour Party’s leader Andrius Mazuronis later refuted her statements.

Širinskienė stated that discussions on the opposition leader began this Tuesday and the Labour Party was part of the process.

"When the group of non-attached MPs joined the opposition, the balance of power shifted and an opportunity emerged to once again attempt to elect the opposition leader,” Širinskienė wrote in a post on Facebook.

According to her, an agreement between the three groups was reached in principle and it only remained to discuss details.

However, Chairman of the Labour Party Andrius Mazuronis denied these claims and said there was no agreement between his party and two other political groups in question.

He told the radio station Žinių radijas on Friday that opposition parties "were not electing anyone”, that comments made by Širinskienė to the media were "some sort of a misunderstanding” and that this is not how the process works.

In March 2021, two opposition political groups, the Farmers and Greens Union (LVŽS) and the Labour Party, agreed on cooperation. MP Skvernelis, who at the time was a representative of the LVŽS, became the opposition leader. However, when he and nine other lawmakers left the LVŽS to establish the political group of Democrats For Lithuania, the opposition was left without the leader.

The Statute of the Seimas stipulates that if a political group of the opposition or a coalition of opposition political groups has more than half of all minority legislators, then the chair of this political group or opposition’s coalition become the opposition leader.

Three coalition parties have 74 seats in the 141-seat Seimas and form the Government. The Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats have 50 seats, the Liberal Movement – 13 and the Freedom Party – 11.

Meanwhile, the opposition consists of the Farmers and Greens Union (LVŽS) that has 19 seats, Democrats For Lithuania with 16 seats, the Social Democratic Party (LSDP) – 12, non-attached MPs – 11 and the Labour Party – 8.

 

LITHUANIA’S FORMIN MET WITH PRESIDENT OF MOLDOVA

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – After a meeting with Moldova’s President Maia Sandu on Thursday, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis noted that despite Russia’s efforts to destabilise the country’s internal situation, Moldova’s future was inevitably in Europe, reports the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

"The solidarity of EU countries with Moldova is crucial due to Russia’s policy that threatens the region. The strong political will in Chișinău and the EU’s openness has opened a window of opportunity that must be used urgently,” Landsbergis said.

The meeting also focused on Moldova’s progress in implementing the European Commission’s recommendations with a view to opening the EU accession negotiations, the implementation of reform in the justice, security and defence sectors, and the fight against corruption.

"Russia continuously seeks to destabilise Moldova’s internal situation and undermine its European integration aspirations. Therefore, we must believe in Moldova’s European future. I am delighted that, as an EU candidate, Moldova is firmly on the path of reform, consolidating the political elite’s efforts to achieve the goal of the EU integration,” Landsbergis said.

On 26-27 April, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis, and other foreign ministers of the eight Nordic-Baltic countries (NB8) visited Moldova.

Ministers also met with Moldovan Speaker of the Parliament Igor Grosu, Prime Minister Dorin Recean, Foreign Minister Nicu Popescu, and other officials and representatives of non-governmental organisations.

 

FINMIN PAYS WORKING VISIT TO SWEDEN TO DISCUSS UKRAINE’S RECONSTRUCTION

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – Minister of Finance Gintarė Skaistė is attending the informal meeting of EU economy and finance ministers and central bank governors in Stockholm, Sweden, on 28-29 April. The meetings focus not only on economic and fiscal policy prospects, strengthening of the banking system, but also on organising financial support for Ukraine.

Minister Skaistė notes that Ukraine’s budgetary needs have been essentially covered this year thanks to the efforts of united Western partners and funding provided by international financial institutions. However, as concerns Ukraine’s reconstruction, the shortage of funds remains obvious both near- and long-term. It is estimated that more than EUR 400 billion will be needed to rebuild the country devastated by Russia’s war and the cost is rising every day.

Covering these needs, effective international cooperation is crucial and the EU’s role is strategic because reconstruction and reform agenda must lead Ukraine to EU membership, the minister highlights. She says ways must be explored how to use frozen Russian assets to fulfil Ukraine’s financial needs and ensure that the aggressor pays for the damage caused.

Estimates suggest that USD 50 billion of Russian private assets and USD 300 billion of assets of the Russian central bank have been frozen in the West.

 

LITHUANIAN AND ROMANIAN NATIONAL THREE SEAS INITIATIVE COORDINATORS MEET IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – On 27 April, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Jovita Neliupšienė met with the head of the Romanian prime minister’s Chancellery, National Coordinator of the Three Seas Initiative (3SI) Mircea Abrudean. At the meeting, the representative of Romania presented the 3SI vision and priorities and informed about preparations for the Summit and Business Forum, which will take place in Bucharest on 6-7 September, said the MFA.

Neliupšienė emphasised that Lithuania saw the 3SI as a valuable format for strengthening cooperation among the participating countries, increasing the connectivity of energy, transport and digital infrastructure, economic security and strategic resilience of the region.

"We welcome the results of last year’s Riga Summit and Business Forum, particularly including Ukraine in this format. We should use the Three Seas Initiative’s cooperation platform to support Ukraine’s restoration and involve Ukraine in implementing regional infrastructure projects under the Three Seas Initiative to boost connectivity between the European Union and Ukraine,” Neliupšienė said.

Both sides agreed to cooperate closely in further developing the 3SI and in the run-up to the Bucharest Summit and Business Forum.

 

THREE SEAS COOPERATION ON ENERGY SECURITY DISCUSSED IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – On Thursday, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania and the Polish Embassy in Vilnius organised a seminar to enhance the cooperation of the Three Seas Initiative (3SI) countries on energy security.

Representatives of Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Ukraine, the United States of America and the European Commission, and energy companies attended the seminar, the Foreign Ministry said in a press release.

The event focused on the development of energy infrastructure connections on the EU’s north-south axis, ways to contribute to addressing the region’s current energy security challenges and help Ukraine ensure energy system resilience. The seminar participants also exchanged views on increasing liquefied gas transport capacity, promoting renewable resources, and decarbonising.

The Lithuanian side presented its experience in developing energy storage capacity and the results of the recent test of an autonomous electricity grid. During the event, it was stated that reducing dependence on energy resources from Russia and other non-democratic countries, the diversification of energy resources and the promotion of renewable energy should be a common goal of the Three Seas countries.

The Ambassador-at-large for Connectivity and the Three Seas Initiative, Gediminas Varvuolis, highlighted the importance of transatlantic cooperation, regional connectivity and achieving the European Green Deal objectives in the region.

It is already the second 3SI event co-organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Polish Embassy in Vilnius. Last year, a similar event was dedicated to the 3SI cybersecurity and digitalisation.

 

LITHUANIA PLANS SPENDING OVER EUR 3.1BN FOR MILITARY STOCKS

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – As part of the planned progress of National Defence System, the Ministry of National Defence foresees spending over EUR 3.1 billion on military stockpiles which would comprise various required calibres of ammunition in the coming decade. The amount is the worth of at least 12% of the entire annual defence budget and an extension by one fifth as compared to the previous level of ambition, the Ministry of National Defence said in a statement.

"The qualitative change in the approach to capability building brings in the complex approach to armament projects, therefore the cutting-edge weaponry system acquisitions for national defence are carried out and the corresponding ammunition is purchased with it, as well as the infrastructure for equipment housing, maintenance and storing that is developed,” states Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas.

The minister notes that military stockpile building is among the top priorities of the recent years which is paid increasingly more attention and appropriations by the year. That is associated not only with the tense regional security situation but also with the wide-ranging modernisation in the Lithuanian Armed Forces: acquisition of the NASAMS mid-range air defence system, HIMARS High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, Vilkas Infantry Fighting Vehicles, JLTV Joint Light Tactical Vehicles, PzH2000 and Ceasar howitzers, tactical drones, and other capabilities.  

The Ministry of National Defence especially focused of military stockpiling last year in the wake of the dramatic change in the geopolitical situation. 2022 was a record year for stocking up, receiving almost one fifth of the defence budget (the considerable 18.3%) added up with the appropriations committed on top over the year. In comparison, the financing amounted to 17.7% of defence budget in 2021 and 11.2% in 2020. This year military stock appropriations are planned to reach approx. one fourth of a billion euros (13.4% defence budget), twice the amount allocated in 2020 (EUR 115.6 million).

The major part, or 90%, of the stockpiles is ammunition, with the remaining 10% constituted by different engineer items and explosive materials. Most of the ammunition procured for the Lithuanian Armed Forces, as much as three fourths, is made up by battle decisive munition, BDM, extensively used by NATO.

Acquisition of military stockpiles takes into account a part for routine force training, i.e., exercise and training events, however the major part of the purchase is stockpiled.

 

EGTO ENERGIJA MAY LOSE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY LICENCE

 

Vilnius, April 28(ELTA) – UAB Egto energija is at risk of losing its licence as an independent electricity supplier, the National Energy Regulatory Council (VERT) said on Friday.

The supplier has failed to comply with the electricity law’s requirement that the company’s equity capital be at least 1/2 of the authorised capital, which is aimed to ensure the company’s financial stability.

According to a report from the VERT, the company has been instructed to remedy the shortcomings by 9 June 2023 and to submit documentary evidence of that.

"Egto energija supplies electricity to 5,533 household and 1,859 commercial consumers as an independent electricity supplier,” the regulator said.

There are three major independent electricity suppliers operating in Lithuania – Elektrum Lietuva, Enefit and Ignitis.

 

CORONAVIRUS: 75 NEW CASES DETECTED IN LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, April 28 (ELTA) – Seventy-five people in Lithuania were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Thursday, 27 April. Eighteen of the cases were reinfections.

According to the State Data Agency, the total number of confirmed cases in the country has reached 1,318,372 since the outbreak of the pandemic. Currently, 2,318 people are ill.

Two patients died of COVID-19 on Thursday. One was from the age group of 80-89 years and the other from the age group of 90-99 years. The death toll due to COVID-19 in the country has increased to 9,665.

On Thursday, 9 people were hospitalised due to coronavirus and now 67 are being treated in hospital. Three patients are in intensive care units.

The average number of new daily cases in the last 7 days is 88. The incidence rate per 100,000 residents in the last 14 days is 52.9. The positive test rate is 11.2%.

 

OUR PRIORITY IS MOLDOVA’S STABILITY AND EUROPEAN INTEGRATION – ESTONIAN FORMIN

 

Tallinn, April 28 (ELTA) – On 27 April, Foreign Minister Margus Tsahkna was in Chișinău for a joint visit with his Nordic and Baltic colleagues (NB8) to express support to Moldova. The foreign ministers had meetings with Moldovan Foreign Minister Nicu Popescu, Prime Minister Dorin Recean, President Maia Sandu and Speaker of the Parliament Igor Grosu, stated the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Estonia.

The focus of the meetings was on Moldova’s integration with the European Union and the reforms that are needed in the process. Minister Tsahkna said Moldova had clearly expressed its ambition of joining the EU and it can count on Estonia’s support. "This step is very important for European security; there is no room for grey areas,” the minister underlined.

NB8 foreign ministers recognised the representatives of Moldova for the progress made so far and said it was important to continue with an active reform agenda. Foreign Minister Tsahkna said that Estonia would like to share its reform experience with colleagues in Moldova.

"Moldova is a neighbour of Ukraine and bears the greatest impact of the consequences of Russia’s aggression. Obviously, Russia’s aggression affects them immediately here and it is impressive how the Moldovan society has successfully met these challenges, including a large number of refugees,” the Estonian foreign minister said.

Discussions also covered a new sanctions regime that would make it possible to sanction individuals and organisations that support the Kremlin and are actively trying to destabilise Moldova. The ministers highlighted the speedy launch of the EU civilian mission in Moldova, which would also concentrate on reinforcing internal security. "Estonia fully supports the establishment of the EU civilian mission in Moldova and we are ready to contribute with our experts,” Tsahkna said.

This year, Estonia’s development cooperation budget for Moldova is EUR 440 000, aimed at supporting activities necessary for joining the European Union.

After the meetings, NB8 foreign ministers signed a joint declaration expressing their commitment to advancing freedom and democracy in Moldova and upholding Moldova’s independence and sovereignty.

It is the first joint visit of NB8 states to Moldova. The aim of the visit was to show common Nordic and Baltic political support to the Europe-aligned foreign policy course of Moldova.

 

DECLINE IN TURNOVER OF RETAIL TRADE ENTERPRISES IN ESTONIA ACCELERATED TO 13% IN MARCH

 

Tallinn, April 28 (ELTA) – According to Statistics Estonia, in March, the turnover of retail trade enterprises was EUR 868 million. Compared with March 2022, turnover decreased by 13% at constant prices, stated Statistics Estonia.

Johanna Linda Pihlak, analyst at Statistics Estonia, said that while turnover in February fell by 6% compared with the same month last year, the decline accelerated in March. The drop in turnover in March was most affected by stores selling manufactured goods, where turnover fell by 18% year on year. "The fall of turnover in these stores was influenced by the higher reference base of March last year, and the continued rise in prices has started to increasingly constrain people's consumption,” Pihlak added.

Among stores selling manufactured goods, turnover decreased the most, by 28%, in other specialised stores selling predominantly computers and their accessories, books, sports equipment, games, toys, etc. Turnover declined by 21% in stores selling household goods and appliances, hardware and building materials, by 14% in stores selling via mail order or the internet, by 9% in stores selling second-hand goods and non-store retail sale (stalls, markets, and direct sale), by 8% in other non-specialised stores selling predominantly manufactured goods (department stores), by 6% in stores selling textiles, clothing and footwear, and by 3% in pharmacies and stores selling cosmetics.

Compared with March 2022, the turnover of grocery stores decreased by 9% and turnover of enterprises engaged in the retail sale of automotive fuel by 3%.

In March compared with February, the turnover of retail trade enterprises increased by 17%. According to the seasonally and working-day adjusted data, turnover was unchanged compared with the previous month.

In the first three months of 2023 (January–March), the turnover of retail trade enterprises decreased by 9% compared with the same period of the previous year.

President of Latvia opens Latvian–German Port Days in Lübeck

Riga, April 28 (ELTA) – On 27 April, President of Latvia Egils Levits opened the Latvian–German Ports Days in Lübeck, Germany. Latvia is represented by the Ministry of Transport, representatives of Latvian ports, the Latvian Embassy in Germany, and the Honorary Consulate in Hamburg, said the Office of the President.

In his address, Levits emphasised the century-long ties between Latvia and Germany, which have made an impact in various fields.

German companies entering the Latvian market or setting up a subsidiary there soon find it easy to do business in Latvia, especially because of the similar work ethic and culture, said Levits.

The president of Latvia noted that the Hanseatic League, which shaped the economy and politics in Northern Europe, was one of the first to realise the importance of deep economic integration as the backbone of lasting peace in Europe: "The concept of economic integration, which creates a mutually beneficial network of relations, was rediscovered after the painful experience of the Second World War. Today, Latvia and Germany, as members of the European Union and NATO, are actively promoting peace and stability in Europe”.

However, with Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, the world is witnessing that for revisionist totalitarian regimes, deep economic ties are not enough. The unity and decisiveness of the European Union member states came as a surprise to Moscow's aggressive dictatorship, said President Levits.

"We must continue to support Ukraine with all possible means in its struggle for freedom, we must learn from the past to be able to defend our fundamental values and democracy,” stressed Levits.

The president emphasised that "we see NATO as the cornerstone of our physical security and the European Union as the backbone of our economic cooperation”.

Russia’s war in Ukraine and COVID-19 have not changed the basic principles of the global economy, but they have underlined the need for a more vigilant approach in choosing our trading partners, Levits said.

"Long supply chains of strategic goods involving autocratic regimes proved to be a trap. This must not happen again,” said the president of Latvia.

A smarter investment and trade policy based on much closer cooperation between countries sharing similar values is clearly needed to prevent such situations from recurring in the future, noted Levits.

The president of Latvia expressed his satisfaction that the Port Days were held at a time when the volume of trade between Latvia and Germany was growing.

The president of Latvia also pointed to the opportunities of the European Green Deal, saying that it was important to transform our economy towards sustainable and green energy at a time of climate change. "Latvia is already one of the European leaders, producing almost half of its energy from renewable sources,” said Levits.

The president of Latvia pointed to the importance of Latvia’s ports in ensuring the green transition.

Retail trade turnover in Latvia fell by 9.0 % in March

Riga, April 28 (ELTA) – Calendar adjusted data (at constant prices) compiled by the Central Statistical Bureau of Latvia (CSB) show that, compared to March 2022, in March 2023 total retail trade turnover decreased by 9.0%.

Turnover of retail trade in food products declined by 11.4%. Retail trade in non-food products (except for retail sale of automotive fuel) fell by 7.8%, but turnover of retail sale of automotive fuel – by 7.0%. The decline in indicators was affected by the lifting of last pandemic-related restrictions in retail trade in March last year, contributing to a significant increase in turnover a year ago, stated CSB.

Compared to March 2022, significant turnover drop was observed in retail sale of cultural and recreation goods (of 26.0%), retail sale in non-specialised stores selling mainly non-food products (15.5%) and retail sale of hardware, instruments, construction materials and sanitary equipment (9.4%).

Total retail trade turnover at current prices did not change (not taking into account the calendar influence).

Compared to February, the total turnover of retail trade in March 2023 fell by 2.7%, according to seasonally adjusted data at constant prices. Turnover of retail trade in food products declined by 9.3%. Retail trade in non-food products (except for retail sale of automotive fuel) increased by 0.7%, turnover of retail sale of automotive fuel – by 1.4%.

As compared to the previous month, the most notable turnover growth was registered in retail sale of electrical household appliances in specialised stores (of 5.8%), retail sale of cultural and recreation goods (4.9%) and retail sale in stalls or markets (3.4%). The largest turnover drop was registered in retail sale of cosmetics and toiletries (of 5.9%), retail sale of clothing, footwear and leather goods (5.8%) and retail trade in pharmaceutical and medical goods (3.9%).

Compared to February, in March 2023 the total retail trade turnover at current prices (not taking into account seasonality) increased by 10.3%.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230428ej4s001xh


Latvian media: Collective defence, presidential election
1274 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日 16:07 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The role of Sweden and Finland in Nato's collective defence, court cases against several Russian-speaking Latvian journalists and expectations from the forthcoming presidential election were among the main topics discussed by Latvian media on 11-17 April.

Sweden preparing for escalation

In an interview with the Sargs website, the commander of the Swedish Ground Forces, Maj-Gen Karl Engelbrektson, said Sweden was ready to meet all requirements and would participate in joint defence planning as soon as it became a full member of Nato. He said Sweden took the Russian threat very seriously and the build-up of Gotland's defence capabilities had been significantly accelerated following Russian propaganda narratives about a Baltic conquest from this island. The commander acknowledged that the war in Ukraine had led to a reassessment of previous knowledge of large-scale military operations and Russian military tactics. Sweden is preparing for any kind of escalation and the military leadership wants society to be prepared for a possible war and to be able to show its resilience, according to Gen Engelbrektson. (Sargs, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Interview with Finnish commander

The online portal Puaro carried an interview with the commander of the Finnish Ground Forces, Maj-Gen Jukka Jokinen, who confirmed Finland's readiness to contribute to Nato's collective defence as well as to share its experience in building successful and effective defence systems in other countries. The Finnish army has learnt several lessons from the war in Ukraine, including the fact that the importance of artillery and man in war is not lost and that good communication, liaison and very capable leadership are particularly important, Puaro cited Jokinen as saying. The commander also stressed the need to focus on the new domains of cyber-environment and space, which Finland is already doing. (Puaro, in Latvian, 10 Apr 23)

Justification of war crimes

The online portal Pietiek.com carried an article by pro-Russian activist Vladimir Linderman. He called for a debate among lawyers on the merits of applying the Criminal Code article "Justification of genocide, crimes against humanity, crimes against peace and war crimes". The broad application of this article in Latvia effectively excludes any intellectual discussion of the causes of the Russia-Ukraine war and plans for a peace settlement, he argued. Any publicly expressed opinion that differs from the government's position is treated as a justification of the "crime against peace", Linderman said. Noting that the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court applies only to individuals and not to states, the activist called for all criminal proceedings related to the Russia-Ukraine war to be terminated under the supposedly controversial article - or at least suspended until a verdict from an authoritative international judicial body. (Pietiek.com, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Open letter by content makers for Russian media

The online portal Pietiek.com published an open letter by journalists Vladimir Dorofeyev, Ludmila Pribylskaya and Andrei Yakovlev. They are among the 16 Russian-speaking Latvian journalists accused of violating EU sanctions. Starting on 11 April, several courts in Riga have been hearing cases against these journalists for breaching EU sanctions by producing content for Russian state propaganda channels. The journalists said they considered this a politically motivated process that violated the basic principles of freedom of expression. "If Russia were to sanction a BBC manager, would it be legal to prosecute journalists who in good faith write texts for the British media corporation, rent space for a correspondents' desk or provide transport services for film crews, for 'passing the buck' to a BBC manager who has been sanctioned by Russia?" Pietiek.com quoted the journalists as asking. (Pietiek.com, in Latvian, 10 Apr 23)

Effect of sanctions

In an analysis piece for the leading news portal Delfi, headlined "Why sanctions do not work", former MP Alexei Grigoryev discussed the effect of Western sanctions on Russia. He highlighted the self-serving policies of India and China towards Russia and focused on the role of "third countries" which supposedly buy and sell goods, but "in reality work for Russia". Grigoryev detailed Armenia's alleged role in helping Russia to circumvent economic sanctions and concluded that countries like Armenia should be offered incentives for joining sanctions: market opening, investment, financial and other assistance. (Delfi, in Latvian, 13 Apr 23)

LNG terminal prospects

The centrist daily Diena highlighted an appeal by the Skulte LNG Terminal developers to the government not to abandon the idea of building this terminal in Latvia. If Latvia does not define its energy policy and continues to depend on its neighbours' favours for natural gas supplies, the country's economic gap with Lithuania and Estonia will deepen, while the population will face exorbitant heating and electricity bills, the newspaper quoted them as saying. According to them, the Latvian government is not looking for ways to support the creation of an LNG ecosystem in the national interest. (Diena, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Diena also published an editorial criticising the authorities for what it described as uncertainty and lack of rational thinking on the issue of building an LNG terminal in Latvia. The Skulte LNG project, the best of several options evaluated, was even granted the status of an object of national interest last year to speed up the implementation process, but now the government is focusing on the joint use of the Estonian Paldiski LNG terminal, Diena noted. It expressed doubt that the Estonians would be ready to subordinate their needs to those of Latvia at some point. (Diena, in Latvian, 13 Apr 23)

Presidential race

Businessman and politician Uldis Pilens has become the first person to announce plans to run in the presidential election in May, the centrist newspaper Neatkariga reported. Twitter users in Latvia expected this announcement and tend to believe that regardless of whether Pilens is elected or not, incumbent Egils Levits will not have a second term in office, the newspaper said. (Neatkariga, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Provisionally, Uldis Pilens could count on 50 votes in parliament, while 51 votes from MPs are needed to elect a president, the Delfi portal said. Speaking on a Delfi TV programme, some members of the coalition noted that reliance on votes from the opposition during the forthcoming presidential election would be a serious warning signal and a national security issue. (Delfi, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Latvia's geopolitical direction is unlikely to change if Egils Levits is not re-elected president, columnist Bens Latkovskis of Neatkariga said. According to him, support for Levits in parliament will mostly come from the lawmakers' dislike of Pilens, who was seen as a politcal threat to Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins and the stability of his government, the columnist said. Therefore, support for Levits effectively means support for Karins, he concluded. (Neatkariga, in Latvian, 13 Apr 23)

New political party

The ideology and members of the party Together for Latvia, founded by the mayor of Rezekne, raises some questions, the conservative daily Latvijas Avize said. One of them is whether this party will be a pro-Kremlin political force. The daily quoted one of its leaders, former MP Andrejs Klementjevs, as saying that the new party would not be as radical as the Russian Union of Latvia or For Stability. It will not question Latvia's membership in the EU and Nato, he said. However, earlier statements by party leader Aleksandrs Bartasevics gave a different impression, as earlier this year he said that Latvia should be a neutral country, Latvijas Avize noted. (Latvijas Avize, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Source: BBC Monitoring 18 Apr 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020230428ej4s002jp


Foreign Ministry's official underscores necessity to prevent efforts to circumvent sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus
LETA/TBT Staff
315 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
RIGA - On April 27-28, Political Directors from the foreign services of the Baltic States, the Nordic countries and the United States of America gathered in Riga for their e-PINE (Enhanced Partnership in Northern Europe) meeting, LETA learned from the Latvian Foreign Ministry.

The Political Directors discussed issues related to Russia’s war on Ukraine, challenges posed by the war to the rules-based international order and transatlantic security, preparations for the meeting of NATO Heads of State and Government in Vilnius this coming July, and relations with China.

An exchange of views was held on developments in the Eastern Neighborhood, Central Asia and the Western Balkans, especially in the context of the consequences of the war in Ukraine. The officials also discussed the role of Belarus in Russia’s war on Ukraine. Latvia was represented at the meeting by the Under Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Political Director Andzejs Vilumsons.

Speaking about the sanction policy, Vilumsons highlighted the importance of close coordination to prevent the efforts to circumvent sanctions imposed on Russia and Belarus. He reiterated Latvia’s position on the need to hold Russia accountable for the crime of aggression against Ukraine, including by setting up a special international tribunal.

The participants agreed on the need to continue military and other support to Ukraine. They expressed hope that Sweden would also become a member of NATO before the NATO summit in Vilnius.

The e-PINE initiative was launched in 2003 in order to enhance the U.S. cooperation with the Baltic States and the Nordic region. Political Directors from Ministries of Foreign Affairs meet twice a year. The main fields of cooperation in the e-PINE format are security policy, relations with neighboring countries and the development of economic relations.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230509ej4s0001r


Media_How Russian Journalists Navigate Life in Latvian Exile
Transitions Online, 2023 年 5 月 16 日, 3063 字, (英文)
A year after dozens of reporters sought safety in Riga, they are facing a distrustful public and stricter immigration laws. From the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism.

Latvia together with likeminded countries proposes expanding sanctions against Russian officials
Inese Trenča
451 字
2023 年 5 月 18 日 15:30 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
RIGA, May 18 (LETA) - Latvia together with likeminded countries proposes expanding sanctions against Russian officials, Foreign Ministry Parliamentary Secretary Gunda Reire (New Unity) told LETA.

As LETA reported, the European Commission on May 5 submitted to European Union member states proposals for the 11th package of sanctions against Russia.

The parliamentary secretary indicated that Latvia together with other EU member states continues to maintain pressure on Russia for its aggression in Ukraine. Latvia is seeking as harsh sanctions against Russia as possible.

Reire noted that ten rounds of sanctions against Russia have already ben adopted since the the start of the war in Ukraine and work is now under way on the 11th round. In this stage, it is too early to reveal all details of the latest sanctions package which has not yet been approved by all EU member states, Reire said.

According to Reire, the emphasis in the 11th sanction package is on the prevention of circumvention, including through third countries. It is also essential to implement the sanction in full as far as possible. There are also proposals to add more individuals to the sanctions lists.

"Alongside the 11th round of sanctions, Latvia, together with likeminded countries, is also promoting a proposal to sanction specific Russian officials involved in serious human rights violations in Russia, including the unjustified, politically motivated and inhuman conviction of Russian opposition politician Valdimir Kara-Murza, who was sentenced to 25 years in prison," the parliamentary secretary said.

She also pointed out that Latvia traditionally cooperates and coordinates with likeminded countries in the process of developing sanctions. Cooperation between the Baltic states and Poland is particularly close. At present, all these countries are in favor of the strongest possible sanctions, Reire said.

As already reported, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto on May 12 threatened to block the new EU sanctions package against Russia, condemning the inclusion of Hungary's largest bank OTP on the list of potential sanctions targets.

As long as OTP is included in Ukraine's list of supporters of Russia's war against Ukraine, the Hungarian government will not take part in negotiations on a new sanctions package, Szijjarto said at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Sweden.

Szijjarto called it was outrageous that Ukraine had put OTP on the list, even though the bank had not broken any laws.

In early May, Ukraine's National Anti-Corruption Agency put OTP on a list of war supporters, accusing it of supporting terrorism. The agency stated that even after the outbreak of the war, OTP is one of the leading banks in the Russian financial services market.

31343742354432332D303944372D3439

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230518ej5i0028l


News; International
CNN International: Moscow Mayor: Minor Damage To Buildings From Drone Strike; Ukrainian FM Calls For More Air Defense Systems; Biden & McCarthy Scramble To Sell Debt Deal To Lawmakers; Deal Facing Backlash From Some U.S. Senate Conservatives; China Sends Its First Civilian Astronaut To Space; North Korea To Launch Spy Satellite Despite Opposition; Human Rights Groups: Iran Resumes Executing Protesters. Aired 8-8:30a ET
Max Foster, Frederik Pleitgen, Clare Sebastian, Lauren Fox, Barbie Nadeau, Will Ripley, David McKenzie, Salma Abdelaziz
4785 字
2023 年 5 月 30 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[08:00:00]

MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to CNN Newsroom. I'm Max Foster in London. Just ahead, drone strikes hit Moscow as Russia continues its own assault on Ukraine. We're live from one of the impact sites in Kiev.

Then dozens of NATO peacekeepers are injured during violent clashes with (inaudible) protesters in Kosovo. And the U.S. warns it could sanction Uganda after it passed extreme anti-gay legislation. But how effective will those sanctions be?

We begin with a swarm of drone strikes in both Kiev and Moscow. The unusual strike in the Russian capital comes as Kremlin forces continue to pound the Ukrainian capital for a third straight day. Moscow's mayor says the drones caused minor damage to several buildings. No one was seriously injured. Ukraine has denied direct involvement.

Kiev says it destroyed 29 of the 31 Iranian-made Shahed drones launched at the capital. One person was killed in that bombardment.

CNN's Fred Pleitgen is at one of the sights that was hit and joins us now live from Kiev. Fred.

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Max.

Well, it certainly was a pretty tough night here for the residence of Kiev. In fact, we were also hearing for several hours as those Shahed drones were loitering basically overhead here in the capital. You could hear there engines in the night. And then also hear the Ukrainian Air Defense frantically trying to shoot them down. And you're absolutely right, I'm at - I'm actually at one of the places that was hit overnight. And if we pan over here, you can see that there was actually substantial damage that was sustained here. There's a lot of debris still laying around in front of this residential building. And if we pan up, we can see that actually the top floors of that building also pretty heavily damaged. This is also the place where a 33 year old woman was killed in these strikes as they happened.

And Max, earlier today, I was actually able to speak to the mayor of Kiev, the former boxing champ Vitali Klitschko. And he called what happened here terrorism on the part of the Russians. Let's listen in.

(BEGIN VIIDEO CLIP)

VITALI KLITSCHKO, MAYOR, KIEV: Actually May (ph) we have a lot of attacks to our city. Not just to capital of Ukraine, also in other cities and a lot of people killed from Russian terrorists. It's terrorism. It's not a war.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

Vitali Klitschko there. At the same time, the Ukrainians are saying they believe that their air defenses were actually quite effective. You noted that a lot of those Shaheds that were coming here towards the Ukrainian capital were actually shot down.

And, in fact, even here at this building, the Ukrainians are saying that the drone that struck it was actually fragments of a drone that had before that been hit by air defense. Now at the same time, we, of course, have the situation there in the Russian capital in Moscow and lot of folks there very concerned this morning as they were seeing drones flying towards the Russian capital.

But we also have further information from the Russian Defense Ministry, from the authorities there. They say that there were eight drones that were involved. They blamed the attack, of course, on Kyiv. The Ukrainians say it wasn't them. The Russians are saying that three of those drones were taken down using electronic countermeasures.

In other words, they then went off course and crashed. But they also say that they had to activate their air defenses to take down five of those drones. Of course, a big incident and certainly a first for the Russian capital since Russia's full on invasion of Ukraine has begun.

And just a quick note, Max, the Ukrainians are saying that they were not behind the attacks that happened in Moscow, but they also say they believe that incidents like that will happen again in the future. Max?

FOSTER: Interesting wording, isn't it? Fred, thank you very much indeed.

Well, Ukraine's President says a decision has been made on the timing of his country's long awaited counteroffensive. He made the announcement during his nightly address on Monday but gave no additional detail. It comes as Ukraine's foreign minister calls on western allies to send more air defense systems and ammunition following a third wave of attacks on Kyiv.

CNN's Clare Sebastian is following all these developments. It does suggest that everything's in place, at least for the counteroffensive, even if we're not going to be finding out about the timings.

CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it's interesting the way that they're handling this because on the one hand, they are letting the suspense build, right? Zelenskyy making these comments, which is an advancement from what we saw a couple of weeks ago when he was in the U.K. and said we need more time. Now he says, we know when, we're just not going to tell you yet.

And this comes after, of course, we saw just a few days ago from the head of the Armed Forces releasing this really sort of epic trailer style, movie style video, really sort of looked like a trailer for the counteroffensive showcasing, you know, Ukrainian troops training. A lot of Western weapons on display there. Some of the more high-tech ones, HIMARS, Leopard tanks, things like that. And the caption to that was, "The Time Has Come To Take Back What Is Ours".

On the flip side, we now have Russia saying the Russian defense minister coming out today and claiming that they have hit a lot of those supplies of Western weapons. Claiming they've hit ammunition and weapons depots in three locations intercepted, he said, 29 British Storm Shadow missiles since they were donated and damaged a Patriot system in Kyiv in recent days.

Now, none of those claims we've been able to verify, but it does seem that that is certainly part of the strategy of Moscow at the moment to target those Western weapons. And, of course, that bolsters the Russian rhetoric around the idea that it is somehow under siege and at war, not just with Ukraine, but, of course, with NATO as a whole.

FOSTER: Clare, thank you.

FOSTER: Anticipation and worry in Washington, where a key vote in a U.S. House committee could stand in the way of the debt limit deal. Members of the Rules Committee must now adopt a rule to allow the bill to be approved by a majority of the House. However, the proposed deal contains some provisions that hardline conservatives don't agree with.

House Speaker Kevin McCarthy says he's not worried the deal won't be approved. President Joe Biden also remains optimistic.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: You know I never say I'm confident in what the Congress is going to do, but I feel very good about it. There is no reason why it shouldn't get done by the 5th. I'm confident that it will get a vote in both Houses, and we'll see.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FOSTER: CNN's Lauren Fox joins me from Capitol Hill. I mean, one of the issues here is the people that McCarthy placed effectively, isn't it, on those committees are now working against him in a way.

LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER: Yes. This was all part of that agreement to win the gavel in the Speaker's race a couple of months ago. He agreed to put three conservatives on this powerful Rules Committee. This committee is the one that sets out the parameters of debate on the House floor. It is the committee where every bill has to go through before it goes to the House floor. But the reason it is so critical to watch those three conservative votes is because, traditionally, it is the majority's responsibility to get a bill out of the House Rules Committee. So the makeup of the committee is nine Republicans, four Democrats. There are two conservatives who are already voicing concerns about what's in this debt ceiling bill -- Chip Roy and Ralph Norman.

And then the third conservative, Thomas Massie, we're keeping a close eye on because he could become the critical vote needed to get this out of committee with Republican votes. That was another agreement that was made in the race for the speakership in which McCarthy said that he would not bring a bill to the floor if it didn't have a majority of Republicans supporting it in the House Rules Committee.

[08:05:01]

It's always possible the Democrats could step in and try to get this bill out of committee. But that is not traditionally how things work. That is why the House Rules Committee is so crucial this morning and why we are going to be keeping a close eye on Thomas Massie, that key conservative.

I should note that back in January, Massie promised that he was not going to be using his position on this committee to stop legislation he personally disagreed with. He said if the majority of the conference supports it, he expected that he would support it in the Rules Committee to get it to the House floor. So that may be giving us a little bit of a read on where Thomas Massie goes on this, but obviously, keeping a close watch today at 03:00.

FOSTER: Lauren Fox, thank you. We'll be watching.

Officials in the U.S. state of Florida say at least nine people, including one -- a one-year-old child were wounded in the shooting on Monday evening. Police believe the shots were fired during an altercation between two groups of people. They detained one person of interest and are searching for another suspect.

The shooting happened near a busy pedestrian area by Hollywood Beach in South Florida at the end of Memorial Day, a holiday honoring U.S. military members who have died in service.

The trial is set to start today for the man accused of killing 11 people at the Pittsburgh synagogue in 2018, 50-year-old Robert Bowers has pleaded not guilty to 63 charges. He could face the death penalty if he's convicted. The attack is on the -- is the deadliest ever on the American Jewish community in the U.S.

Bowers had been posting attacks on immigrants and Jewish people on social media in the weeks before the shooting. Prosecutors have rejected a plea deal to remove the death penalty in exchange for a -- for life in prison.

Police in Mississippi have captured one of the two escaped inmates who went missing during a prison headcount early on Monday morning. The man faces escape charges whilst police are still searching for the other fugitive. It's the second time in just over a month that prisoners have escaped from the same detention center.

Last month, four men were able to break out, with two being recaptured and the other two found dead. The local sheriff has apologized.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SHERIFF TYREE JONES, HINDS COUNTY, MISSISSIPPI: We believe that they were able to get access to an air duct within a facility which led to the exterior of the facility, where they were able to go over a fence and escape the facility as well.

Once again, I know I apologize before. Here we are once again, and I'm apologizing to the people of Hinds County regarding what I would consider another public safety breach in our facility.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FOSTER: Tensions between ethnic Serbs and Albanians are spiking in Kosovo and NATO peacekeepers are caught in the middle. NATO says 30 peacekeepers were injured in the northern part of the country on Monday as they tried to calm Serbian protests. Kosovo is mostly Albanian, but there are pockets where Serbs are in the majority, and Serbia still considers Kosovo to be part of its territory.

Barbie Nadeau tracking this for us. Obviously, very unusual to see members of NATO being targeted like this. It really does show how tense things have become there.

BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: That's right. And, you know, most of these troops that were injured are Italian and Hungarian so, you know, it is a very important story here in the rest of Europe. But this is just a tinder box, this area. It has been, you know, 2008 when Kosovo declared its independence.

As you said, Serbia didn't recognize it, neither did Russia. Serbia is a big, you know, supporter of Russia's war in Ukraine. And so a lot of people are really concerned about this. NATO is on high alert right now. Serbia -- the Serbian president is urging people, urging the Serbian majority in that northern little strip of land there, not to engage with Kosovo or with -- so sorry, with KFOR forces there.

And so it's just a really volatile moment in an area that has not ever really seen very comfortable peace, let's say, Max.

FOSTER: OK, Barbie, thank you. We'll keep an eye on it.

China calling its first launch, carrying a civilian into space a success.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Speaking Foreign Language)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FOSTER: The Shenzhou-16 rocket blasted off earlier on Tuesday, bound to China's newly completed space station. The three man crew will stay on the space station for the next five months. Among them is a college professor. They'll be carrying out space experiments.

CNN's Will Ripley joins us in Taipei with a closer look. A lot of China, of course, have their TVs on today to see that moment of history.

WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: And it's interesting, Max. Yes, this is the first civilian for a manned space flight in China. Previously, all of the astronauts were members of the People's Liberation Army. And yet the thing that they're talking about the most on Chinese social media is the fact that this professor at the prestigious aeronautics university, Beihang University in China.

[08:10:03]

He was wearing glasses, and previously, all the astronauts, you know, were required to essentially have perfect 20/20 vision. And so that was what people were talking about on Chinese social media. Wait, you have glasses, you can go into space.

And that's what China says is indicative of the fact that their space program is really becoming bigger. It's becoming broader. The fact that they can now have a civilian who does not have perfect eyes site, but wears glasses, which, by the way, NASA also has allows people with glasses, you know, depending on the severity of their vision impairment, to also travel into space.

It shows that China is really advancing very quickly here. I mean, it's remarkable that now they have a space station that may actually outlive the International Space Station, depending upon how long it's able to maintain this low Earth orbit. China will be probably talking with other countries about international partnerships.

And remember, it wasn't too long ago, just 2011 that the United States excluded China from work on the International Space Station, citing concerns that it would use the technology shared by other countries to grow its intercontinental ballistic missile capabilities.

Well, now China is there. They have a permanent presence orbiting the Earth. They want to go to the Moon. They eventually want to go to Mars. So this really is a space race shaping up. Very interesting, Max.

Also, not sure if this is related or just coincidental, but Elon Musk, the CEO of SpaceX, along with Tesla and Twitter, he's actually in China meeting with the foreign minister today, put out a statement calling the Chinese people diligent and intelligent, talking about supply chains, you know, opposing decoupling and chain breaking. But interesting timing that Elon Musk of SpaceX is there on the same day of this launch.

FOSTER: OK. Will Ripley in Taipei, thank you for bringing us that.

Now, despite protests from its neighbors, North Korea says it'll launch its first military spy satellite next month. According to state media, the launch is a response to dangerous military acts from the United States and South Korea.

Meanwhile, Japan has warned Pyongyang it'll use extreme force if a North Korean missile lands in its territory.

Now to Canada. This video is showing a driver navigating through heavy flames and smoke in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia as hundreds of firefighters battle multiple ferocious wildfires. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau calls the fires there incredibly serious. Officials say they burned more than 10,000 hectares, destroyed at least 200 homes or other structures, and have forced 16,000 people from their homes.

On the other side of the country, wildfires in Alberta have been burning for weeks. Some 2,700 firefighters are on the lines there, battling more than 60 active fires.

Still to come, the U.S. says it's considering sanctions against Uganda over its new, harsh anti-LGBTQ law. We'll discuss the possible impact next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[08:15:08]

FOSTER: How effective would sanctions against Uganda be? The White House says it's considering sanctions and visa restrictions for some Ugandan officials involved in the implementation of one of the toughest anti-LGBTQ laws in the world.

Each year, Uganda receives billions of dollars in foreign aids as significant portion of that is from the U.S. But the new law could put at risk some of the investments in the region, including the emergency plan for humanitarian relief.

The measure includes the death penalty for aggravated homosexuality, 20 years in prison for promoting homosexuality, and it criminalizes sex education for the gay community. U.S. President Joe Biden described the bill as a tragic violation of universal human rights.

David McKenzie joins me live from Johannesburg. Do you think they realized they would get this sort of blowback? Perhaps in terms of words, but not in terms of economic sanctions, potentially?

DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Max, I actually have to say they probably did realize that there would be this blowback. There would have been private discussions ongoing between when this law was proposed and when the President Museveni signed it.

So, yes, I'm sure there's been pressure from the State Department, from the European Union and others on directly the President Museveni. But he's been in power since 1986. He's a wily customer and he would have anticipated this.

But is he ready to deal with the consequences as you suggest? The White House saying they're reviewing all aspects of the relationship with Uganda and the U.S. More than $1 billion just from the U.S. in terms of humanitarian aid and military assistance directly to Uganda. That's a lot of money that potentially is at risk here. Max?

FOSTER: In terms of the law, we've spoken a bit about -- previously about how -- you know, what exactly is involved in the law and what people can and can't do under this extreme law, really. But when does it come into effect?

MCKENZIE: So I spoke to a leading lawyer today, Max, to ask that very question. The technical way this works now is this law, this very draconian law that could show -- send people for many years to prison for being gay, frankly, is going to first be sent by the justice minister to be gazette. Meaning, actually become the law of the land.

Now, because of the hype around this law, activists fear it could be in a few days or a few weeks, unless there's some technicality that creeps in that delays it. Now, you remember, a similar law that was pushed some time ago now was eventually struck down in the courts. And you do have domestic civil society groups ready to try and stop the law once it's actually put into effect.

But there is this area, this kind of in between phase, but activists believe that even in the fact that the president has signed, it sends a message for people potentially take the law into their own hands. Max?

FOSTER: In terms of, you know, the economic repercussions here, the country does rely, doesn't it, on some humanitarian aid. So that's one way in which other countries could hit the nation, but it would have a huge impact.

MCKENZIE: It will have a huge impact, and it would have a broad impact. And already you've seen those proponents of the law saying this is about Ugandan sovereignty and kind of pre-judging the fact that there might be punishments coming in which wouldn't just harm those, of course, in the government, but more broadly the citizens of Uganda.

But there are more directed things, I think, that can happen. One is likely to happen, which would be travel or visa bans for individuals who push this law, including members of parliament, potentially sanctions against the president and members of the leadership of that country, in particular, the speaker of parliament who was instrumental in pushing this through.

There's also something looming that is critically important, and the White House mentioned that and that's AGOA, the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act, which is being assessed by Congress and others ahead of a deadline. Now that allows tariff free exports of Ugandan goods to the U.S.

The White House mentioned this by name. There is a really big stick there for the U.S. to use against the country should they not dial back this law. But domestic politics will certainly be pressuring Museveni and those lawmakers to follow through with this draconian law.

And if it does come into place and is enforced, it will be extremely bad, say activists and just ordinary Ugandans I've spoken to who identify with the LGBTQ community. Max?

FOSTER: OK, David McKenzie, thanks for joining us from Joburg.

[08:20:00]

Now, the violent conflict in Sudan between rival military factions is now in its 7th week, and there doesn't appear to be any end in sight, despite plenty of talk about peace. U.S. and Saudi mediators say that both sides have significantly impeded the delivery of humanitarian aid during a ceasefire that is set to end in a matter of hours.

Riyadh, however, says the Sudanese Army and RSF paramilitary group have agreed to extend the shaky truce by five days.

Now, coming up, human rights groups in Iran warn the government is looking to execute more protesters in the months to come. We'll look into Tehran's crackdown on dissent just ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

FOSTER: This week, Iran is prosecuting two journalists who reported on the death of Mahsa Amini, the young woman who died in police custody back in September. Her death sparked months of massive protests and called for an end to Iran's hardline clerical regime.

Iranian intelligence agents accused the two female journalists of colluding with hostile powers, charges that could carry the death penalty. The first trial session of one of the journalists was held Monday in Tehran behind closed doors. The other journalist trial will start on Tuesday.

While the protests in Iran have eased, authorities there aren't giving an inch to anyone showing dissent. Human rights groups say the government has begun executing protesters once again.

Salma Abdelaziz has the details.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Outside a jail near Tehran, families of prisoners gathered chant, "do not hang them".

Their pleas come as Iran resumes the execution of protesters after a months-long hiatus. The brutal practice restarted this month with the hanging of three young men accused of killing three members of the security forces during anti-government protests in November.

The news sparked more demonstrations. But activists in human rights groups say the allegations against the trio are baseless.

Majid Kazemi was forced to watch video of interrogators torturing his brother, and he was subject to at least 15 mock executions, according to Amnesty International. In an audio note obtained by the organization, he maintained his innocence. CNN cannot independently verify the clip. They kept beating me and ordering me to say this weapon is mine, he says. I told them I would say whatever they wanted, just please leave my family alone.

Before his execution, the family of 36-year-old Saleh Mirhashemi, a karate coach from Isfahan, tried to draw attention to his plight. This picture of his father spread on social media. "My son is innocent", the sign reads.

But to no avail, activists shared this heartbreaking video they say is Mirhashemi's dad hugging his picture as he lay by his son's grave.

Iran has not responded to CNN's request for comment.

The total number of demonstrators known to have been executed since last year now stands at seven, according to CNN reporting. And more executions are likely imminent.

[08:25:02]

Over 100 protesters have been sentenced to death or are facing charges punishable by death, says this human rights activist.

MAHMOOD AMIRY-MOGHADDAM, DIRECTOR, IRAN HUMAN RIGHTS NGO: When authorities fear protests or right after protests, number of executions go up. The aim is to create fear in the society to prevent more protests.

ABDELAZIZ (on-camera): Do you expect that the number of executions is going to rise even more this year?

AMIRY-MOGHADDAM: It is rising already. Unless the international community takes a strong move against these executions, we might be facing a very large number of executions in the coming months.

ABDELAZIZ (voiced-over): Rights groups say that Mohammed Ghobadlou, a 22-year-old protester with a mental health issue could be one of the next victims of Iran's execution machine.

Activists are ringing the alarm. They say yet another Iranian faces death just for daring to speak out.

Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, London.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

FOSTER: Now, Monday was a national holiday in Latvia after the tiny Baltic nation took bronze in the Ice Hockey World Championship.

After Sunday's historic win over the United States, massive crowds celebrated in the Latvian capital on Monday. Huge turnout for the country of less than 2 million people. Canada took gold in the tournament, and Germany won silver. But Latvia still beat hockey powerhouse Sweden before topping the U.S., 4 to 3 in overtime to take third. Latvia co-hosted the championship with Finland, and its president was in the locker room on Sunday as the party began. Clearly, Latvia loves its hockey, and many of its players compete in the NHL.

Thanks for joining me here on CNN Newsroom. I'm Max Foster in London. World Sport with Andy Scholes is up next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020230530ej5u000gp


The Cabinet of Ministers supports strengthening the functions of the Enterprise Register in the area of ​​sanctions
499 字
2023 年 6 月 15 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Riga: Ministry of Justice of The Republic of Latvia has issued the following press release:

The draft law "Amendments to the law "On the Register of Companies of the Republic of Latvia"" developed by the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the Register of Companies of the Republic of Latvia (hereinafter - the Register of Companies) was supported at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers . The changes are intended to ensure the full implementation of both European Union sanctions in Latvia, established in connection with Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and sanctions of the member states of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

The changes provide for the analysis of the data of the subjects of sanctions and their public availability in the registers maintained by the Company Register, thus a helpful tool will be introduced for every participant of the economic circulation, including also for state institutions, for example, when conducting public procurement.

The draft law sets the task for the Register of Enterprises to conduct an analysis of legal acts, decisions, other documents, information provided by other institutions, as well as information publicly available to everyone about the applied international and national sanctions (financial and civil legal restrictions) and sanctions of a member state of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in connection with the registers kept by the Register of Enterprises the recorded or registered information and other documents submitted to it, in order to conclude the application of the prescribed sanctions to the legal entities registered in the registers kept by the Register of Enterprises, and to ensure public availability of this information.

Therefore, the Register of Companies would , without taking a separate decision, register information about the legal subjects registered in the registers maintained by it , persons recorded in the register entries or other persons registered in the registers (legal subjects) against whom international, national or member states of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization sanctions have been applied . the relevant legal entity or person is the subject of sanctions, or registers information that the relevant legal entity has an increased risk of sanctions, if sanctions are applied to a person whose information is entered or registered in one of the registers maintained by the Register of Enterprises.

Information on the risk of sanctions is also planned to be registered for legal entities registered in the registers maintained by the Enterprise Register, against which board members, founders, participants, beneficial owners have been subject to international, national sanctions (financial or civil legal restrictions) or sanctions of a member state of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The purpose of the said mark is to provide as complete information as possible to the private and public sector and would serve as an indicator that a sanction risk assessment should be carried out.

This is an automated translated version of the story which may have translation errors. Please always refer to the original story[https://www.tm.gov.lv/lv/jaunums/ministru-kabinets-atbalsta-uznemumu-registra-funkciju-stiprinasanu-sankciju-joma].

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020230615ej6f00096


State Revenue Service suggests new regulations will help prevent circumvention of sanctions
BNN
520 字
2023 年 6 月 27 日 12:12 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
New amendments to sanction-related regulations, which came into force on the 24th of June, will help EU border guards to battle sanction circumvention more effectively, according to representatives of Latvian State Revenue Service (VID).

The service notes that in order to reduce the risk of sanction circumvention to the minimum, it has been decided to ban transit of EU goods and technologies that could promote Russia’s military and technological edge through this country’s territory.

The new package of sanctions also includes a prohibition to send goods and technology suitable for the aerospace sector as well as fuel and fuel additives for jet engines through Russia’s territories.

Because border control points along Latvia’s land border are among the ones that have the most workload on the border shared by the EU and Russia, the new amendments that were developed with Latvia’s support represent a new and long-awaited tool for customs officials, who have been under increased workload since the start of the Russian-Ukrainian war.

Approximately 70% of all controlling activities performed by the customs are associated with the sanction regime.

VID Customs Office Director Raimonds Zukuls says that after sanctions were applied on Russia, there was a tangible growth of exports to countries of Central Asia.

“After analysing the data, we concluded that this was one of the ways sanctions are usually circumvented – in some cases goods are delivered to Russia, not their intended country. Thanks to the active work of the European Commission together with EU member states, we have found additional solutions to help prevent circumvention of sanctions in Latvia,” said Zukuls.

Additionally, the new sanction regulations cover carriers, because starting with the 24th of June neither third country nor EU companies’ carriers will not be allowed to carry goods using trailers and semi-trailers registered in Russia.

During the transition period until the 30th of June 2023 it is permitted to complete the already initiated transports in the EU, as well as return trailers and semi-trailers to Russia.

The new amendments to sanction regulations are also planned to include a ban on exports of other goods such as passenger cars of a value not exceeding EUR 50 000 (not luxury goods), new or retreaded tires for buses and lorries, conveyor belts or belts, machinery for working rubber or plastics or for the manufacture of articles of these materials, goods vehicles, etc.

A transition period has been announced for these goods. Active contracts are allowed to be completed by the 25th of September 2023 as long as those contracts were signed before the 24th of June 2023.

Amendments also include a mechanism that will prevent exports of certain goods to third countries if there are high risks of sanction circumvention and if countries in question refuse to cooperate with the EU in preventing the circumvention of sanctions.

Also read: Competition Council permits Eesti Gaas to purchase Gaso

The post State Revenue Service suggests new regulations will help prevent circumvention of sanctions appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020230627ej6r0008d


Russian investments in share capital of Latvian companies continue to decline - Lursoft
Ivars Motivāns
858 字
2023 年 6 月 29 日 11:52 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
Riga, June 29 (LETA) - The amount of Russian investments in the share capital of companies registered in Latvia has decreased to EUR 322.01 million, which is 55.54 percent less than in 2016, according to Lursoft data.

Since 2017, the amount of Russian investments in the share capital of Latvian companies has been on a downward trend. The statistics show that in 2017, EUR 724.3 million were invested in the share capital of Latvian companies from Russia, but in the following years this amount showed a downward trend, which means that the amount withdrawn from the share capital was higher than the amount reinvested.

Russia currently ranks eighth in terms of the amount of investment, while it is first in terms of the number of companies in which investments have been made. Russian investments are currently registered in the share capital of 3,521 companies.

Grigory Guselnikov, a shareholder in the insolvent PNB Banka, is registered as the largest investor.

The second largest investor is the public joint stock company Uralkali, which has invested EUR 30 million in the share capital of Uralkali Trading. The company's beneficial owner, Dmitry Mazepin, is listed on international sanctions lists. Uralkali Trading, part of Russia's largest potassium chloride producer group, has reported the highest turnover of companies registered in Latvia - EUR 2.8 billion in 2021, with a profit after tax of EUR 46.95 million.

The company has not submitted its report for 2022, but based on data from the State Revenue Service, the number of employees in Uralkali Trading last year rose from 44 to 57.

Lursoft data show that Russia's investments in the share capital of Latvian companies fell by EUR 65.3 million in 2022 and by another EUR 48.1 million this year. The sharpest drops in investment volume last year were recorded in February (by EUR 15.26 million) and August (by EUR 16.53 million).

In the first four months of this year, the negative trend has continued, with the volume of Russian investments falling by EUR 53.4 million in April, while May recorded an increase of EUR 9.1 million. The large drop in the volume of accumulated investments in April was recorded due to the change of ownership of Severstal Distribution.

Immediately after Russia's full-scale armed invasion of Ukraine, Alexey Mordashov, the former beneficial owner of Severstal Distribution, was placed on the European Union's sanctions list. In April, the ownership and beneficial owners of the company changed, while the name of Severstal Distribution was changed to Marcegaglia Baltics.

Marcegaglia Carbon Steel, registered in Italy, became the new owner and Antonio and Emma Marcegaglia became the beneficial owners. According to Lursoft, TT Baltics, indirectly owned by Mordashov, is still registered in Latvia.

Meanwhile, Mazepin is registered as the beneficial owner not only of the above-mentioned Uralkali Trading, but also of Riga Fertilizer Terminal, Ventamonjaks and Uralchem Trading.

The sanction lists also include the beneficial owner of Faberlic Baltija, Alexey Nechayev, the owner of Imni, Roman Rotenberg, as well as Gazprom, one of the shareholders of Latvijas Gaze, and Vladimir Potanin, the beneficial owner of Cloud Payments International. Lursoft notes that the sanctions lists also include Pyotr Aven, who is registered as a beneficial owner of three companies in Latvia, as well as two other non-governmental organizations.

Lursoft data show that the number of new investors from Russia has decreased over the past year. While in 2021, 475 persons from Russia registered first-time investments in the share capital of companies registered in Latvia, last year the number of such persons fell to 379. Meanwhile, the number of new investors from Ukraine increased in 2022.

In 2020 only 83 persons from Ukraine registered first-time investments in the share capital of Latvian companies, in 2021 their number had increased to 174, and last year - to 262.

Lursoft data reveal that the amount of Ukrainian investments in the share capital of Latvian companies currently reaches EUR 107.1 million. Last year, the amount of Ukrainian investments in Latvian companies decreased by EUR 12.58 million, although the number of companies with registered investments increased.

The reason for the sharp drop in the amount of accumulated investments is Notum, in which Ukrainian national Alla Bogner had invested EUR 8.3 million, was liquidated last year. The company has been operating for years without any income from its business activities, with a turnover of EUR 15,150 in 2020 and EUR 25,900 in 2021.

Lursoft statistics show that Ukrainian investments are currently registered in the share capital of 1,073 companies. Since the beginning of 2022, the number of such companies has increased by 49.

The largest Ukrainian company registered in Latvia since February 24, 2022, is Inrodtran with a share capital of EUR 16,800. Olena Badorna is the sole shareholder and official of the company. The second largest newly registered Ukrainian company during the period was FlorensLV, founded by Roman Kaminskyy, with a share capital of EUR 10,000.

45394643333841302D353133342D3432

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230629ej6t0012x


Highlights: Latvian Media 17 Jul 23
860 字
2023 年 7 月 17 日 10:36 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The interruption of transit with Belarus, alleged discontent among the Russian military, and Latvian energy policy are among the main topics covered by Latvian newspapers and news websites on 15-17 July.

Pro-Russian propagandist fined for supporting Russia

Several activists, including Reinis Poznaks, founder of the pro-Ukraine Twitter Convoy, and National Alliance board member Imants Paradnieks, have expressed outrage at the light fine for Russian propagandist Marat Kasem, editor of the Russian state-sponsored outlet Sputnik Lithuania, who is a Latvian citizen, the conservative daily Latvijas Avize reports. Poznaks argues that Kasem's activities were preparations for a real invasion and providing rented apartments for saboteurs, not gathering "some mysterious information". He recalls that before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, saboteurs were also sent to Kyiv, for whom rented apartments had been provided. Paradnieks is quoted as saying that in this particular case, instruments of mass murder were being prepared - saboteurs who would carry it out. He admits that the convict Kasem may have received far more from Russia than the fine he has to pay. (Latvijas Avize, 15 July)

Interruption of transit with Belarus

In an article for Neatkariga, former Latvian Railways board member Aivars Straksas strongly criticises the suspension of transit with the Belarusian railways, concluding that there is blatant lack of rofessionalism, and insisting that the suspension of cargo transit must not go unpunished. The misinterpretation of the application of the sanction procedure when this transit was suspended due to the sanctioning of Belarusian railway manager Uladzimir Marozow could directly damage the Latvian state budget in 2023 to the tune of millions of euros. The law on sanctions makes a distinction between natural and legal persons, explains the expert, who also refers to the opinion of the European Commission received by the Latvian government that there are no obstacles to the transit of goods through Belarus. Straksas concludes that this is a very serious signal that Latvia is not a predictable country for foreign investors and that political decisions dominate business decisions. (Neatkariga, 17 July)

Energy policy debate

An editorial in Diena expresses concern that the energy policy vision of those responsible for Latvia's energy development is "inexcusably short-sighted". A systematic and strategic plan is needed so that Latvia does not end up as one big solar panel with a propeller in the middle, but of no use to local people or astronomical prices, the newspaper stresses. It quotes Climate and Energy Minister Raimonds Cudars as explaining that in response to possible popular discontent over the massive deployment of wind turbines in municipalities, a solution is being worked out for the introduction of a levy the revenue from which would be channeled into the budgets of specific municipalities and used for the needs of the municipal communities. Citizens' consent will be bought even though manufacturing, transporting and installing wind turbines in a given location is far from the most environmentally friendly measure, concludes the editorial. (Diena, 14 July)

Fire sparked by denial of refugee status

The news portal Delfi prominently reports the reasons that forced a resident of the Asylum Seekers Centre Mucenieki to take the desperate step of setting fire to her living space there. Delfi quotes several letters in which Brazilian citizen Renata Miranda Eloa Braundau Alvisa explains that contrary to what officials claim, the fire was caused by her on purpose instead of an accident, in protest against the non-issuance of medication. Witnesses to the fire interviewed by Delfi add that the woman's protest culminated after being refused refugee status and having her work permit revoked. (Delfi, 17 July)

Opposition to Istanbul Convention

In an article entitled "Latvian politicians are ready to destroy the nation in the name of the stench of communism", columnist Elita Veidemane continues her campaign against the Istanbul Convention, claiming that it is a "communist invention" that will fail to protect women, victims of violence. As Veidemane explains, to give this "communist victory" a deeper foundation, the convention, in Article 14, purposely "cripples" children by obliging the teaching of same-sex relations and sex as a matter of choice to be included in all levels of education, both private and state-run. The convention is based on the aim of transforming society into a compliant tool in the hands of money-hungry villains, argues the columnist. (Neatkariga, 15 July)

Discontent among Russian military

Columnist Bens Latkovskis of Neatkariga focuses on growing instability within the Russian elite and especially among the military. He cites examples of high-ranking commanders being removed from office, including Maj-Gen Ivan Popov, commander of the 58th Army, who has openly made heavy accusations against the high command of the Russian Armed Forces, particularly on shortcomings in army supply and the absence of rotation of personnel. The Russian army in times of war has new functions, interests and ambitions unprecedented in times of peace, but in Russia (unlike Turkey, for example) the army has never played the role of an independent political actor, the columnist says. (Neatkariga, 16 July) 

Source: BBC Monitoring 17 July 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020230717ej7h000jh


OPINION | Overzealous interpretation of sanctions could cost Latvia a whole economic sector
BNN
1204 字
2023 年 7 月 26 日 10:09 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Opinion piece – Ilona Bērziņa, BNN

The drop of Russian freight caused by various geopolitical factors at Latvian sea ports in the first half-year of 2023 indicates that the country is in dire need of solutions to help preserve its transit sector’s competitiveness. Freight from Central Asia plays a very big role in all this. The Latvian government – in the form of the Ministry of Transport – is doing all it can to enhance existing cooperation, but…

In an ironic turn of events, shortly after the visit of representatives of those countries’ transport ministries to Latvia, VAS Latvian Railways suddenly decided to cease the transit of freight on the Belarusian railway, thereby blocking transports of Central Asian and Asian countries’ freight.

It was not the intention of Latvian Railway to shoot itself in the foot like that. Simply – some Latvian state official decided – if the head of Belarusian Railway Vladimir Morozov is mentioned in the 11th package of personal sanctions imposed by the European Union, it means there is no way Latvian Railways cal cooperate with its Belarusian counterpart.

After that, however, the European Commission explained

that personal sanctions against Morozovs do not in any way limit Latvian Railways’ rights to cooperate with Belarusian Railways, which answers to the Belarusian Ministry of Transport, not the sanctioned person.

The result of this overzealous action was the loss of reputation and money

One would ask – what’s the deal with interpretations of sanctions? Especially considering that, according to what various media reports, with imports and exports through Belarus halting entirely, the losses to Latvia’s state budget could reach EUR 750 million even without unemployment benefits, subsidies for infrastructure and other costs [estimate from Latvian Stevedoring Company Association (LSA)]. Even now, though smaller than that, there are definite losses. And this is not just about money, there is also the matter of lost partners.

Meanwhile, Poland and Lithuania, for example, do not engage in excessive interpretations of sanctions still continue carrying freight using the railway networks of the two sanctioned countries. The transit of containers from China through Belarus over Germany’s and Austria’s railway networks still continues as well.

And because of the overzealous interpretation of sanctions

Latvia also suffers problems with grain transports from Central Asia,

and in many cases grain freight is diverted towards Latvia’s neighbours. It is possible this is half the problem, but because Lithuanian and Polish sea ports lack the capacity to handle all the freight, it is entirely possible Central Asian countries could divert some of their freight towards Russian sea ports as well. This, on the other hand, would mean that with its excessive interpretation of sanctions Latvia will have indirectly supported Russia’s economy.

Currently it is unknown why Latvian Railways decided to rush with its decision before waiting for European Commission’s explanation. But now it is clear that these twenty days have cost Latvia both freight and reputation, because the country has demonstrated itself as an unpredictable business partner.

The public opinion from LSA indicates that the unique interpretation of sanctions on Latvia’s part risks undermining the reputation of Latvian sea ports in the eyes of its international partners.

This once again indicates how important it is to coordinate implementation of sanctions with EU partners and their sanction systems.

Why are we helping the aggressor?

For example, last year a transition period for EU’s embargo on Russian petrol products was established. After this period it will be permitted to transport these products to third countries under strict conditions. Latvian authorities, on the other hand, decided it would be safer to simply ban transports of this products entirely.

But EU-registered ships continue carrying those products, because the EC explains that carrying Russian petrol products to third countries is permitted. The EC also admits that all ancillary operations for transshipment and transfer of petroleum products may be carried out under price ceilings.

There is talk of Russian sea ports charging outrageous amounts for freight-handling services. Western European businesses that are engaged in petrol product handling grind their teeth and pay, because it is thanks to our country’s interpretation of sanctions they have been forced to leave Latvian sea ports.

This is another indirect way Latvia assists the aggressor country’s economy even though the point of sanctions was doing the opposite. However, if EU sanctions allowed as an exclusion the transportation of freight to third countries through Latvia, this source of income would be cut off for Russia.

Cooperation with Central Asia and Ukraine

The Central Asian countries received the odd surprise in the form of closure of routes to and from Belarus a mere ten days after the signing of Latvia’s and Central Asian countries announcement and the statement from the Ministry of Transport that Latvia meets all conditions to become these countries’ strategic partner in the European Union.

Latvia is not the only country thinking about tighter economic ties with Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries. During his visit to Kazakhsta, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced his country has plans to deepen ties with this country. Just recently there was talk of the EU and US-supported new transit corridor connecting Central Asian countries with Baltic States’ sea ports through Belarus, as well as attraction of new freight and creation of new services.

Only thing that’s left is hoping that overzealous interpretation of sanctions does not become an obstacle to continue cooperation.

Why should we be worried? If Central Asian partners decide cooperation with Lithuania is more predictable, the consequences will ring for the entire transit sector. Latvia’s biggest sea ports would experience enormous problems with operations, possible insolvencies among businesses, countless people could lose their jobs. This would result in an enormous increase of unemployment benefits, as well as a dramatic decline of freight.

The latter means the state will have to pay multi-million grants to Latvian Railways.

In the current geopolitical situation Latvia needs to think about reaching out to new partners and use every opportunity in its favour, similarly to Lithuania and Estonia. For example, Russia quitting the Black Sea “Grain Deal” means Latvia could offer its own corridor to help transport Ukraine’s grains. This would also assist Ukraine. The idea for this possible cooperation is nothing new. It was a topic discussed by Latvian Railways representatives during their visits to Ukraine a couple of years ago.

Because Polish farmers are not too happy about the possible exports of Ukrainian grain through sea ports of their country, the opportunity is massive. Let’s not forget the week-long protests by Polish farmers in spring against imports of Ukrainian grain. The Polish Minister of Agriculture even stepped down because of this reason… This is an opportunity for Latvia and Lithuania. For it to happen, we need a strong position from the state and investors’ readiness to invest in, say, construction of grain storage facilities at sea ports.

Also read: Estonian farmers predict a poor crop harvest

The post OPINION | Overzealous interpretation of sanctions could cost Latvia a whole economic sector appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020230726ej7q0005l


TV3: payment of Latvijas Gāze catches the attention of Latvian State Security Service
LETA
245 字
2023 年 7 月 27 日 07:17 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Latvian State Security Service (VDD) has commenced an inspection to assess whether the decision by Latvijas Gāze (LG) shareholders to pay dividends to one of the owners of LLC Itera Latvija is in line with the sanction regime imposed on Russia, TV3 News reported in the evening on Wednesday, the 26th of July.

“It is prohibited to make financial resources or economic resources of the European Union, whether directly or indirectly, to persons or businesses under sanctions.

Activities which result in financial resources or economic resources coming into the possession of a private or legal person under international sanctions are subject to criminal liability in Latvia,” VDD told the programme.

VDD does not comment the initiated inspection in more detail.

LG insists the company did not violate any laws.

LETA reported that the net turnover of LG in 2022 was EUR 689.752 million, which is 31.3% more when compared with 2021. The concern’s net profits increased by 12.1 times – to EUR 39.073 million.

Latvijas gāze’s biggest shareholders include Russian Gazprom (34%), Marguerite Gas II.S.a.r.l (28.97%), German Uniper Ruhrgas International GmbH (18.26%) and LLC Itera Latvija (16%).

Read also: OPINION | Overzealous interpretation of sanctions could cost Latvia a whole economic sector

The post TV3: payment of Latvijas Gāze catches the attention of Latvian State Security Service appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020230727ej7r0002u


LATVIA: PAYMENT OF LATVIJAS GAZE CATCHES ATTENTION OF STATE SECURITY SERVICE
194 字
2023 年 7 月 28 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2023. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
Latvian State Security Service (VDD) has commenced an inspection to assess whether the decision by Latvijas Gaze (LG) shareholders to pay dividends to one of the owners of LLC Itera Latvija is in line with the sanction regime imposed on Russia.

"It is prohibited to make financial resources or economic resources of the European Union, whether directly or indirectly, to persons or businesses under sanctions. Activities which result in financial resources or economic resources coming into the possession of a private or legal person under international sanctions are subject to criminal liability in Latvia," VDD said.

VDD does not comment the initiated inspection in more detail.

LG insisted the company did not violate any laws.

LETA reported that the net turnover of LG in 2022 was EUR 689.752 million, up by 31.3% YoY. The concern's net profits increased 12.1-fold, to EUR 39.073 million.

Latvijas gaze's biggest shareholders include Russian Gazprom (34%), Marguerite Gas II.S.a.r.l (28.97%), German Uniper Ruhrgas International GmbH (18.26%) and LLC Itera Latvija (16%). (BNN/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020230728ej7s0001r


EUR 103 mln in Russian, Belarusian assets frozen in Lithuania due to sanctions – FCIS
BNS/TBT Staff
218 字
2023 年 8 月 8 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS - More than 103 million euros in Russian and Belarusian assets have so far been frozen in Lithuania due to the existing international sanction, according to the latest data from Lithuania's Financial Crimes Investigation Service as it oversees the implementation of these sanctions in Lithuania.

16 legal and natural persons are subject to the sanctions in Lithuania, and they include 9 Russian companies, as well as six legal and one natural person from Belarus.

The total amount of frozen funds in the accounts of the Russian companies exceeds 69.51 million US dollars and 810,000 euros. And the total amount of funds frozen in Belarusian companies and individuals' accounts stands at 23.71 million euros and 7.68 million US dollars

The total amount of incoming frozen funds from senders who are subject to the existing EU sanctions exceeds 1.33 million euros, 1.58 million US dollars and 215,000 roubles.

The FCIS notes that one of the main sanction evasion trends includes attempts to import sanctioned goods into the aggressor country, adding that reports of possible violations in most cases have to do with Lithuania-registered companies with a long history of trading with Russia or Belarus.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020230808ej8800030


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11061
Karolis Broga
3947 字
2023 年 8 月 10 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11061 (95467) THURSDAY AFTERNOON, AUGUST 10

 

NAUSĖDA PRESENTED CREDENTIALS TO TWO LITHUANIAN AMBASSADORS

 

Vilnius, August 10 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda on Thursday presented letters of credence to Lithuanian ambassadors to Romania and South Africa.

In a meeting with Artūras Žurauskas, Lithuania’s ambassador to Romania, the president stressed that both countries are like-minded on many topics of the international agenda and share the same values and friendly bilateral relations based on strong partnership in the EU and NATO, as well as strongly support Ukraine’s Euro-Atlantic aspirations.

Nausėda highlighted Romania’s contribution in ensuring the security of the Baltic region and emphasised the importance of strengthening relations with Romania in the area of security and defence policy.

In a meeting with Rasa Jankauskaitė, Lithuania’s ambassador to the Republic of South Africa, the president discussed prospects of developing bilateral relations. The head of state stessed the importance of presenting Lithuania’s historic narrative and the fight against disinformation spread by Russia.

The president also underscored the importance of economic diplomacy and effective representation of Lithuania’s economic and trade interests, with a focus on innovation, digitisation and the high added value sector.

The president also said it was important to enhance ties between Lithuania and Litvaks living in the Republic of South Africa.

 

RESTRICTIONS ON BELARUSIAN CITIZENS MAY BE TIGHTENED – PM

 

Vilnius, August 10 (ELTA) – Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė believes there are grounds to consider introducing identical restrictions for Belarusian citizens as Russian nationals as a result of Wagner Group presence in Belarus.

She said in an interview to the radio station Žinių radijas on Thursday that exemptions would still apply on humanitarian grounds to protect critics of Russian and Belarusian regimes.

According to the prime minister, the situation has changed significantly since spring, when restrictions on Russians and Belarusians were being considered originally.

"The situation has changed since then and mostly after the so-called Wagner mutiny, and when Lukashenko decided to harbour a terrorist organisation in his country. Of course, this affects how we see the overall situation and understand risks,” said Šimonytė.

The head of Government said proposals on tougher sanctions for Belarusian citizens would likely be made before parliament’s autumn session that starts on 10 September.

On Wednesday, Deputy Minister of the Interior Vitalijus Dmitrijevas stated that identical restrictions should apply on Russians and Belarusians arriving in Lithuania. Now there are certain exemptions for Belarusians.

President Gitanas Nausėda earlier called on parliament to review and tighten sanctions after Wagner Group was sent to Belarus.

The Law on Imposing Restrictive Measures Regarding the Military Aggression Against Ukraine was adopted in parliament in April 2023 and is valid until May 2024.

Lithuania has suspended reception of visa applications from Russian and Belarusian nationals abroad, with an exception of cases mediated by the MFA. Reception of applications for temporary residence permits from Russian nationals has also been suspended, unless they hold a valid Schengen or national visa or a residence permit issued in another EU country.

Moreover, Russian citizens crossing the EU’s external border to Lithuania are subject to additional screening. Russian nationals and legal entities may no longer purchase immovable property in Lithuania, unless they have a permanent or a temporary residence permit.

 

CLOSING MORE THAN TWO BORDER CROSSINGS WITH BELARUS WOULD HAVE IMPLICATIONS FOR OTHER COUNTRIES – PM

 

Vilnius, August 10 (ELTA) – Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė has reservations about Lithuania closing more than two border crossing points at the border with Belarus as this would have implications for other neighbouring countries. That is why Lithuania, Latvia and Poland have agreed to coordinate actions in case their borders with Belarus would have to be closed.

The PM said in an interview to the radio station Žinių radijas on Thursday that closure of border crossings with Belarus has consequences for other countries. She alluded to Poland’s decision to leave just one border crossing with Belarus open. According to her, vehicle queues emerged at the Lithuanian-Belarusian border once Poland closed its other border crossings.

"The majority of transport vehicles crossing the border are not Belarusian or from third countries, these are the European Union’s transport vehicles. This also creates inconvenience for local residents close to border crossing points and to businesses registered in the European Union,” said Šimonytė.

Lithuania is considering closing two border crossing points with Belarus that are little used for road freight. The move comes amid security risks linked to the presence of Wagner Group in Belarus after its mutiny in Russia. The private military company has been declared a terrorist organisation in Lithuania.

Lithuania’s Ministry of Transport and Communications earlier this week recommended to the Government to temporarily close Tverečius and Šumskas border crossing points starting 15 August to reduce security risks at the border with Belarus. Afterwards, four border crossings at the border with Belarus would remain operational.

Director of Customs Department Darius Žvironas stated that the move would not hamper the movement of goods.

President Gitanas Nausėda has stated that Lithuania, Latvia and Poland may have to close their borders with Belarus entirely if the security situation due to Wagner presence in Belarus would become complicated, adding that this would be an extreme measure.

 

MORE THAN 86,000 TEMPORARY RESIDENCE PERMITS ISSUED IN LITHUANIA IN H1

 

Vilnius, August 10 (ELTA) – Since January until July 2023, the Migration Department issued 86,372 temporary residence permits in Lithuania. This is the highest number in the last 5 years.

As many as 71,901 permits were issued to individuals applying for temporary residence for the first time, 14,471 temporary residence permits were reissued. By 25% more temporary residence permits were issued in the first half of 2023, compared with the second half of 2022.

The majority of temporary residence permits, 51,126, were granted to citizens of Ukraine. More than 42,000 of them are war refugees for whom the European Union’s temporary protection mechanism applies.

In the first half of 2023, 19,477 Belarusian and 2,384 Russian citizens received temporary residence permits in Lithuania.

Apart from the aforementioned temporary protection mechanism, 34,417 temporary residence permits were granted on the basis of employment. Of them, 1,145 were issued to high-skilled professionals. 2,615 permits were issued on the grounds of family reunification.

 

TELTONIKA BEGINS CONSTRUCTION OF CUTTING-EDGE PCB FACTORY IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, August 10 (ELTA) – The Teltonika company group embarks on a new phase of development by launching the construction of a state-of-the-art PCB (printed circuit board) manufacturing plant in the future technology park in Liepkalnis, Vilnius. The factory is one the ten projects to be established in this technology park, Teltonika said in a press release.

Covering an area of more than 33,000 m2, the PCB factory will house manufacturing facilities and administrative premises. The budget for this project is estimated to be EUR 143 million, most of which will be invested in purchasing special manufacturing equipment. The contracts with equipment suppliers from Germany, Italy, and Japan are now under negotiation.

Teltonika’s PCB factory is expected to become one of the most advanced of its kind in Europe. It will ensure the highest level of automation and meet the strictest environmental standards. The company intend to employ around 250 highly qualified specialists at the site.

With an anticipated construction time of around 15 months, the company aims to complete the project in December 2024.

A printed circuit board is the base of modern electronic devices on which various components, including semiconductor chips, are placed. Nowadays, this element is hardly replaceable in the manufacturing of more complex electronics, Teltonika stated.

Due to the low geographical concentration of PCB plants in the region and the steadily growing demand for electronic devices, the investment in the construction of the plant is crucial for the company group’s further development. It will also enable us to reduce lead times, minimise supply chain risks, and become independent from third-party political decisions.

The Teltonika High-Tech Hill project encompasses ten new production and administrative premises located on a 450,000 m2 territory. It will include the following objects: electronics assembly plant; printed circuit board factory; administrative offices; data centre; plastic parts manufacturing facility; semiconductor chip assembly, testing, and manufacturing facilities; commercial building; parking.

The company has already obtained construction permits not only for the PCB plant but also for a 64,200 m² administrative office building, the construction of which will start in March 2024 and take approximately 36 months. And by the end of August this year, it intends to obtain a building permit for a 22,700 m² electronics assembly plant. The construction of this plant is expected to take about 18 months.

The work on the 20,600 m² plastic and mechanical components manufacturing facility is projected to start in July 2024 and will take about 15 months to complete. Other facilities are currently undergoing architectural and design work and coordination with Vilnius City Council.

If all the processes of territorial planning and construction permits are carried out in accordance with the statutory deadlines, and the planned 110 kV line and the 100 MW electrical switching station will be built by the end of 2024, the construction of the Teltonika High-Tech Hill technology park can be completed by 2028. Additional equipment will be installed by 2033 at an investment of EUR1.6 billion. The total investment in the project will amount to around EUR3.7 billion.

The Teltonika company group is currently looking for contractors and partners to cooperate with in the development of all technology park projects.

 

CORONAVIRUS: 23 NEW CASES CONFIRMED

 

Vilnius, August 10 (ELTA) – Twenty-three new coronavirus cases were confirmed in Lithuania on 9 August. Nine individuals contracted COVID-19 repeatedly, said the State Data Agency.

The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country has reached 1,322,114 since the outbreak of the pandemic. There are currently 388 active cases.

The death toll due to COVID-19 in Lithuania stands at 9,694. Patients did not die of the disease on Wednesday.

On Wednesday, two people were hospitalised due to COVID-19 and now 15 are being treated in hospital.

The average number of new daily cases in the last 7 days is 20. The incidence rate per 100,000 residents in the last 14 days is 10.

 

SANCTIONED GOODS REACHING ESTONIA ORIGINATE IN COUNTRIES OTHER THAN RUSSIA – ERR

 

Tallinn, August 10 (ELTA) – Sanctioned goods are still arriving across the Estonia-Russia border at Narva, but the items themselves originated from countries other than the Russian Federation, ETV news show Aktuaalne kaamera (AK) reported Wednesday, said public broadcaster ERR.

A large number of steel and oil products and fertilisers arrive in Estonia via Russia. These are, at least according to the presented documentation, not of Russian origin, but have transited through Russia, and originated, for instance, in the Central Asian republics.

Ants Kutti, head of the external borders of the Tax and Customs Board (MTA), told ETV news show Aktuaalne kaamera (AK) that: "The imports from Russia and products of Russian origin are under sanction. Currently, the products which have been arriving have mostly come from Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia and Georgia.”

 

PORT OF TALLINN EARNS EUR 1.4MN PROFIT IN Q2

 

Tallinn, August 10 (ELTA) – In the second quarter, AS Tallinna Sadam (Port of Tallinn) earned 29 million euros in sales revenue and 1.4 million euros in profit. The revenue for six months was 57 million euros and the profit reached 7 million euros. In the second quarter, the volume of investments increased to 4.6 million euros, in the first half of the year the company invested a total of 6.1 million euros, Tallinna Sadam said in a press release.

In the second quarter, both sales revenue (-5%), adjusted EBITDA (-24%) and profit (-73%) decreased year-on-year. Semiannually, the revenue remained at the previous year’s level, but the adjusted EBITDA (-12%) and profit (-42%) fell due to the pressure of cost growth.

The financial results of six months were significantly affected by both the increase in the number of passengers and the decrease in cargo volumes. While the passenger business continued to recover steadily on regular lines and there is still growth potential to reach the pre-COVID restrictions level, cargo volumes continue to decline due to sanctions and the general decrease in cargo volumes. In shipping, both ferries and the icebreaker Botnica showed growth, but regular dock work and costs related to the new charter contract affected Botnica’s profitability. Rising service prices and wage pressure increased operating costs, financial costs also increased.

Revenue for the first half of 2023 grew by EUR 54 thousand (+0.1%) year on year to EUR 57.2 million. Revenue remained at the same level as a year earlier due to growth in revenue from ferry service between Estonia’s mainland and two largest islands, passenger fee revenue in the Passenger harbours segment and charter fee revenue in the segment Other, which offset the decrease in revenue from vessel dues, cargo charges and electricity sales. In terms of revenue streams, the biggest change in the first half-year was in vessel dues revenue, which dropped by EUR 2.2 million (–12.2%) to EUR 16.0 million. This was mainly attributable to fewer calls by cargo ships and ro-pax vessels due to decreasing cargo volumes as well as a decline in the number of cruise ship calls (–35.3%). Cargo charge revenue decreased less than cargo throughput (–30.6%), because the decline was stronger for cargo with lower charge rates. In terms of segments, six-month revenue grew in the Passenger harbours segment, the Ferry segment and the segment Other (the icebreaker Botnica), which offset the revenue decrease in the Cargo harbours segment.

The six-month revenue of the Passenger harbours segment grew by 7.6% year on year, mainly through an increase passenger fee revenue (+EUR 1.0 million) due to rapid growth in passenger numbers and higher lease income (+EUR 0.2 million). In the second quarter, revenue decreased by 6.7% year on year to EUR 9.3 million (–EUR 0.7 million). This was mainly due to lower revenue from vessel dues in connection with fewer cruise ship calls.

The six-month revenue of the Cargo harbours segment decreased year on year (–20.1%). Vessel dues revenue dropped significantly (–EUR 2.2 million) as the number of vessel calls fell due to a drop in cargo volumes. Cargo charge revenue decreased (–EUR 0.5 million) because volumes contracted for all cargo types (particularly liquid bulk and general cargo). The second-quarter revenue of the Cargo harbours segment decreased by EUR 2.2 million (–22.3%) year on year, mainly due to lower vessel dues revenue, cargo charge revenue and electricity sales revenue.

The six-month revenue of the Ferry segment grew by EUR 1.5 million (+9.5%) due to growth in both ferry service revenue and lease income. Ferry service revenue increased through a rise in contractual fees due to an increase in the Estonian fuel cost, employment cost and consumer price indices. In the second quarter, the revenue of the Ferry segment grew by EUR 0.6 million year on year (+6.3%).

The six-month revenue of the segment Other grew by EUR 1.1 million (+24.7%). Revenue grew due to the summer charter of the icebreaker Botnica and higher charter fee revenue for the icebreaking season (under a new contract with the Transport Administration), even though the summer charter of Botnica was cut short due to technical changes made to the project (9 days instead of 40 days). Revenue for the second quarter grew by EUR 0.8 million (+80.5%) through the summer charter of Botnica and higher revenue in the icebreaking season that ended on 20 April.

Adjusted EBITDA for the first half-year dropped by EUR 3.6 million (–12.4%) year on year to EUR 25.3 million. Adjusted EBITDA growth the Passenger harbours segment and the Ferry segment could not offset the decrease in the Cargo harbours segment and the segment Other. The adjusted EBITDA of the segment Other decreased due to higher expenses incurred in the second quarter in connection with the regular dry dock maintenance and repairs of the icebreaker Botnica. Adjusted EBITDA margin for the first half-year decreased from 50.5% to 44.2% and adjusted EBITDA margin for the second quarter decreased from 50.7% to 40.7%.

Profit before tax for the first six months fell by EUR 6.3 million (–38.6%) year on year to EUR 10.1 million. Profit for the first half-year decreased by EUR 5.2 million (–38.6%) year on year. Second-quarter net profit was EUR 1.4 million (–EUR 3.7 million).

In the first six months of 2023, the Group invested EUR 6.1 million, EUR 2.8 million less than a year earlier. The largest investments were ma de scheduled dry docking works and investments for improving ice class on the icebreaker Botnica, in building a new quay in Paldiski South Harbour, reconstructing a quay and completing the reconstruction of the outdoor area around terminal D in Old City Harbour and, increasing the capacity of Muuga Harbour to serve ro-ro cargo (secondII floor ramp) and information technology. Investments of the second quarter totalled EUR 4.6 million (Q2 2022: EUR 4.3 million).

 

LATVIA’S NATIONAL ARMED FORCES JOIN UN INTERIM FORCE IN LEBANON

 

Riga, August 10 (ELTA) – Troops of the National Armed Forces of Latvia have left for Lebanon to join the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), announced the Ministry of Defence.

"Participation of Latvia in the international peacekeeping mission will contribute to attainment of international cooperation goals. It will also strengthen operational and tactical cooperation between Latvian troops and Italian armed forces. Our soldiers will gain extremely valuable experience while operating in an international environment,” Defence Minister Ināra Mūrniece stressed.

Latvia will initially send three officers who will join the headquarters element of the UNIFIL. They will be followed by a 30-men infantry platoon, expanding the Latvian force within the UNIFIL.

The main tasks of Latvian contingent within the UN Interim Force in Lebanon will include monitoring and confirming the withdrawal of Israeli forces from southern Lebanon, restoring of international peace and security, and assisting the Government of Lebanon in ensuring the return of its effective authority in the area.

As reported earlier, Latvian parliament, Saeima, approved participation of Latvian troops in the international peacekeeping mission of the UN in Lebanon on 20 April. Latvian troops will join the UNIFIL for the period mandated by the UN Security Council resolution or until 31 August 2023. If Security Council decides to extend the mandate of the UNIFIL, Latvia will automatically extend its participation in the mission.

The Ministry of Defence and National Armed Forces have decided to partner up for the Mission with Italy, which has already been part of UNIFIL for many years, to make the integration of Latvian contingent into UNIFIL as successful and efficient as possible. Italy is also one of the UNIFIL’s biggest framework nations. Italy joined the Mission in 1979. It has been very active since and become the second largest contributor to the international effort. Italy is also an important part of NATO’s enhanced Forward Presence Battle Group Latvia.

 

REVENUE OF DELFINGROUP GREW BY 52% IN Q2

 

Riga, August 10 (ELTA) – The Latvian fintech company DelfinGroup continued to show stable growth in all business segments in the second quarter of 2023, which was reflected in the financial results. The company’s revenue in the second quarter of 2023 increased by 52% compared to the same period last year, reaching 12.3 million euros. DelfinGroup EBITDA increased to 4.3 million euros, up 41% compared to Q2 2022, while profit before tax increased by 7% to 2 million euros. The company’s loan portfolio has reached 78.1 million euros, up 16% since the beginning of the year, the company said.

Summarising the results for the first half of 2023, DelfinGroup revenue has increased by 51% compared to the corresponding period last year, reaching 23.7 million euros. The company’s EBITDA has also grown to 8.3 million euros, representing a 46% increase compared to the first half of 2022.

"DelfinGroup continues to implement a sound development strategy, which has enabled us to complete another successful quarter. We have grown both in lending and in pre-owned goods sales. The company’s loan portfolio continues to grow, which, together with the rise in interest rates and financing costs, has had a natural impact on profit figures. At the same time, EBITDA increased by 41% to 4.3 million euros. The company’s growth allows us to develop new services, including promoting the principles of circular economy in society, encouraging the recycling of goods and generally taking care to reduce our carbon footprint and use our resources wisely,” explains Didzis Ādmīdiņš, chairman of the Management Board of DelfinGroup.

Overall, in the first half of this year, retail in pre-owned and new goods reached 6.8 million euros, a 39% increase compared to the same period last year. Additionally, loan issuance reached 45.7 million euros in the first half of this year, a 29% increase compared to the same period of the previous year.

He adds that this year, the largest Banknote XL circular economy store in Riga has been opened in the Imanta neighbourhood, where it is possible to buy pre-owned and new goods with a guarantee, as well as to sell items that are no longer used in the household. A new digital service – remote purchase of goods – has also been developed, making it easier for people to re-sell their goods. Also work continues on the development of the circular economy online store, which already offers more than 50 000 pre-owned and new goods in one place.

To ensure balanced growth and financial covenant fulfilment, DelfinGroup purposefully pursued a steady growth in loan issuance in Q2. As a result, loans worth 21.8 million euros have been issued this quarter, marking a 7% increase compared to the last year. Consequently, increasing loan issuance during the first half of the year resulted in a record-high net loan portfolio amount – 78.1 million euros, already surpassing the strategic aim to reach 77 million euros net loan portfolio at the end of 2023.

The company continues to adhere to responsible lending principles, which resulted in a good loan portfolio quality in the second quarter. Based on the consumer loan portfolio, DelfinGroup customers repay 94.7% of their loans within 30 days, and 97.8% of loans are repaid within 90 days.

In order to further ensure a diversified funding structure and to refinance existing liabilities, DelfinGroup issued two new bonds: a subordinated bonds of 5 million euros and an unsecured bonds of 15 million euros. After a completion of a private placement bond issue, on 3 July, the company listed a 10 million euros bond issue on Nasdaq Riga alternative market Nasdaq First North.

"The company’s growth is also driving investor interest. In May this year, demand exceeded supply in a public offering of shares of DelfinGroup largest shareholders, resulting in 27.1% of the company’s shares being in open trading. We also continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, providing shareholders with a stable and regular income,” adds Didzis Ādmīdiņš.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230810ej8a0018h


Latvian media: Nato summit, cargo transit
1204 字
2023 年 8 月 13 日 20:19 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The results of the Nato summit in Vilnius and Latvia's decision to suspend cargo transit cooperation with Belarusian Railways were among the main topics discussed by Latvian media on 11-17 July.

Nato summit

Experts believe that the decisions of the Nato summit will increase the security of the Baltic states and enhance Ukraine's capabilities on the battlefield, the news portal LSM reported. Despite not receiving an invitation to join the alliance, Ukraine has received many practical promises of arms, training and financial aid that will directly contribute to Ukraine's capabilities on the battlefield, LSM wrote. Some experts noted that there was a sense of disappointment and bitterness among Ukrainian civil society that had had higher expectations, while others said that the result was the highest possible. "The Lithuanians wanted this to be a historic summit. The Ukrainians wanted this to be a historic summit, but I did not see any reason why Ukraine could be invited to join Nato or that a deadline could be set for when it would happen," said Toms Rostoks, director of the Centre for Security and Strategic Research. (LSM, in Latvian, 13 Jul 23)

Pundit Aivars Ozolins of the liberal weekly Ir said that the result of the Nato summit was "cautious unity", with the Baltic Sea becoming a "Nato lake" that would "fundamentally change the defence situation in our region" in addition to the change of "Nato doctrine from deterrence of an enemy to defending every inch of member states' territory from the start of any attack". Ozolins also noted that there were internal and external factors affecting Ukrainian accession to Nato. "Concerning external factors, unfortunately, Nato member states do not have a consensus on how the war should end. Ukrainians have said that their goal is to free all the territory, including Crimea, but some European countries are probably not willing to see the complete defeat of Russia". (Ir, in Latvian,13 Jul 23)

The Diena daily published an interview with a former commander of the National Armed Forces, Raimonds Graube, about his assessment of the Nato summit in Vilnius. The general said that "the results of the Vilnius summit are a huge blow to Russia". "In my opinion, this confirmation of Ukraine being on the way to Nato is very reasonable and strong enough. Sceptics would say that the memorandum of the 2007 Bucharest summit was very similar to this one and that there is no progress for Ukraine. But I would like to remind the sceptics that this is a completely different Nato and these words have a completely different weight, justification, and power," Graube said. (Diena, in Latvian, 14 Jul 23)

Old-school thinking in the West

Pundit Maris Zanders in a commentary in the conservative daily Latvijas Avize looked at "the leftovers of colonial thinking in the West", citing the Nato summit in Vilnius as an example. Zanders argued that from the point of view of Western democracies, Ukraine had not been "a model country since independence", as "corruption, inefficient state administration, the selfishness of the elite, etc., had been problems characteristic of Ukraine for a long time". Therefore, Zanders said, it was clear that Ukraine could become a Nato member only when the "prerequisites" were met. At the same time, he asked: "How are Ukraine's domestic political problems greater than the corruption, the weakness of the judiciary, attacks on press freedom and others, problems that theoretically are incompatible with liberal democracies, in Nato members such as Turkey, Bulgaria or Hungary? Where is the difference? Is it the case that Ukraine is somehow not 'real Europe' in the view of the thought giants of Nato? ... [This] is the most appalling sign of the colonial mindset of Western liberal democracies". (Latvijas Avize, in Latvian, 13 Jul 23)

The Satori portal carried an article by Anete Bike, a master's student in international security at the Paris Institute of Political Studies, who shared her insights from discussions among students and professors on Russia's war in Ukraine. Bike wrote about "emotional challenges caused by the constant need to refute opinions that question the sovereignty of Latvia, Ukraine's struggle for victory, etc" and calls from some academics, like Harvard professor Eugene Kogan, to "understand war criminal Putin" and conduct secret negotiations with Russia to end the killings and prevent a potential nuclear conflict. His class included a simulation of negations between Ukraine and Russia on the future of Donbas, where some students from Western countries likened the situation to the fight for freedom of Catalonia in Spain, while the professor asked if giving up some Ukrainian territory was not "a potential solution to ending the bloodshed". Bike concluded that although she had always believed in the concept of sovereign equality in international law, she now felt that "small countries will always remain younger brothers". (Satori, in Latvian, 12 Jul 23)

Pro-Russian propagandist fined for supporting Russia

Several activists, including Reinis Poznaks, the founder of the pro-Ukraine "Twitter Convoy", and the National Alliance board member Imants Paradnieks have expressed outrage at the modest fine for Russian propagandist Marat Kasem, editor of Kremlin-funded outlet Sputnik Lithuania, who is a Latvian citizen. The Latvijas Avize newspaper quoted Poznaks as saying that Kasem's activities had been preparations for a real invasion, providing rented apartments for saboteurs, not gathering some mysterious information. He recalled that before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, saboteurs had been sent to Kyiv, for whom rented apartments had been provided. (Latvijas Avize, in Latvian, 15 Jul 23)

Belarus's role in deportations of Ukrainian children

The liberal weekly Ir published an article entitled "Lukasheka regime's participation in war crimes - deportation of children from Ukraine" by researchers of the Centre for East European Policy Studies. Referring to international sources, the article noted that Russia was not the only country involved in the deportation of Ukrainian children from Russian-occupied territories. This process is directly supported by the regime of Alexander Lukashenko, with several sanatoriums and camps identified in Belarus, where children deported from Ukraine have been placed. The authors looked at the role of state-owned fertiliser producer Belaruskali, as well as businessman and former Paralympian Aleksey Talaj. "It is clear that in these camps and sanatoriums, children are not only 'rehabilitated', but also subjected to aggressive indoctrination," Ir wrote. (Ir, in Latvian, 12 Jul 23)

Interruption of transit with Belarus

In the article published by the Neatkariga newspaper, former Latvian Railways board member Aivars Straksas strongly criticised the suspension of cargo transit with the Belarusian railways, concluding that there was blatant unprofessionalism. The misinterpretation of the application of the sanction procedure when this transit was suspended due to the sanctioning of the Belarusian railway manager, Vladimir Morozov, could directly damage the Latvian state budget in 2023 to the tune of millions of euros, he said. The law on sanctions makes a distinction between natural and legal persons, he added. According to him, this is a very serious signal that Latvia is not a predictable country for foreign investors and that political decisions dominate business decisions. (Neatkariga, in Latvian, 17 Jul 23)

Source: BBC Monitoring 18 Jul 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020230813ej8d0002t


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11084
President Gitanas Nausėda: Seimas Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen: Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Ministries Karolis Broga
4214 字
2023 年 8 月 29 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11084 (95490) TUESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 29

 

NEW AMBASSADORS OF GERMANY, ESTONIA AND SWEDEN TAKE OFFICE

 

Vilnius, August 28 (ELTA) – On Monday, President Gitanas Nausėda received letters of credence from German Ambassador Cornelius Zimmermann, Estonian Ambassador Kaimo Kuusk and Swedish Ambassador Lars Wahlund, the presidency reports.

At the meeting with the German ambassador, the president underlined that Lithuania highly appreciates Germany’s strong commitment and leadership in our region, especially in the areas of security and defence, and that Lithuania is doing all that needs to be done to host a German brigade as early as in 2026.

According to Nausėda, Germany is a strategic partner of Lithuania in the European Union, NATO and other international organizations.

"Lithuania is ready to expand economic and trade relations as well as to strengthen collaboration in science and innovation,” the president said.

Nausėda and the Estonian ambassador talked about working together to strengthen NATO’s eastern flank, implement strategic infrastructure projects, expand bilateral economic and trade contacts, as well as jointly fight against Russia’s propaganda and its efforts to rewrite history. The president underscored the need to deliver the decisions made at the Vilnius NATO Summit and to seek an invitation for Ukraine to join NATO to be issued at its next summit in Washington.

According to Nausėda, it is necessary to ensure sustainable long-term support for Ukraine, to tighten sanctions against Russia and Belarus, and to make the aggressor Russia accountable for its war crimes.

In his meeting with the Swedish ambassador, the president expressed Lithuania’s full support for Sweden’s membership in NATO.

Nausėda emphasised that Sweden’s accession will strengthen security in the Baltic Sea region and invited Sweden to join the Vilnius-based NATO Energy Security Centre.

The president highlighted Sweden’s successful presidency of the European Union. Its focus on European values, well-being and security, as well as strong support for Ukraine, serves as a model example of responsibility and reassurance. According to Nausėda, Lithuania is ready to expand economic and trade ties and deepen cooperation in culture, science and education.

 

GOVT CHANCELLOR HOSTS JAPAN’S PARLT DELEGATION

 

Vilnius, August 29 (ELTA) – Chancellor of the Government, Giedrė Balčytytė, met with a delegation from the upper house of the National Diet of Japan (House of Councillors), led by vice president of the House of Councillors, Hiroyuki Nagahama. The meeting – also attended by Deputy Foreign Minister Jonas Survila – focused on Lithuania-Japan bilateral relations, the strategic partnership, regional security and cooperation between democracies in the face of threats posed by authoritarian regimes, also on support for Ukraine in countering Russia’s armed aggression, said the Office of the Government.

"We are happy that the strategic partnership between Lithuania and Japan, founded on shared democratic values and the vision for a peaceful, rules-based world, has been steadily gaining a stronger footing. We wish to catalyse Lithuanian-Japanese synergy in areas spanning security and cutting-edge technology, all while engaging in a reciprocal exchange of experience to bolster cyber resilience and counter hybrid threats. Russia’s ongoing war against Ukraine and the conspicuous nexus between authoritarian regimes make the like-minded democracies to forge ever closer bonds,” said chancellor of the Government, Balčytytė.

As authoritarian regimes closely follow the democratic world’s response to Russia’s brutal aggression against Ukraine, the outcome of this war will definitely have security implications for other regions too, the meeting noted. Victory in Ukraine is the only credible way to ensure sustainable security in Europe and to deter possible future aggression not only from Russia but also from other authoritarian regimes around the world.

It is important to continue not only military but also humanitarian and civilian support to Ukraine, which is why Lithuania has already launched bilateral reconstruction projects last year, some of which have already been successfully completed, and is inviting others to join in, said the chancellor.

It is crucial for the international community to remember that Russia must be eventually held to account for the crime of aggression and war crimes in Ukraine, added Giedrė Balčytytė.

As authoritarian regimes mobilise and learn from each other’s mistakes, building the collective resilience of democracies and sharing experience is becoming ever more pertinent. According to Vilmantas Vitkauskas, head of the National Crisis Management Centre (NKVC), the same methods are being used in hybrid attacks, and these regimes are actively inclined to exploit disinformation and cyberspace.

Chancellor Balčytytė also highlighted Lithuania’s engagement with major internet platforms to counter the dissemination of disinformation on social networks.

 

FORMIN SAYS IN ABSENTIA CONVICTION OF LITHUANIAN JUDGES YET ANOTHER PROVOCATION BY KREMLIN

 

Vilnius, August 28 (ELTA) – Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis says a Moscow court’s decision to arrest the three Lithuanian judges who passed verdict in the January 13th case is yet another attempt by the Kremlin to stir up the tensions.

"Russia has repeatedly used this case in its propaganda, misrepresenting the events and falsifying historical facts. The sentencing of the three judges in absentia is yet another incitement of tensions by the Kremlin regime, which once again confirms that the trial and verdict of the January 13th case, or, as I have already said, the Lithuanian Nuremberg case, was legitimate,” Landsbergis said in a comment sent to ELTA on Monday.

According to the foreign minister, Lithuania has actively raised the issue of the prosecution of the judges of the January 13th case in all international formats.

Russia’s Telegram channel Mediazona reported on Monday that a Moscow court ordered the arrest in absentia of three Lithuanian judges, who had handed down a verdict in the case investigating events of 13 January 1991, when 14 people were killed as Soviet troops tried to seize key buildings in Vilnius.

The outlet cited a report by the court’s press service dated 17 August.

Russian investigators accuse Lithuanian judges of giving a "deliberately unlawful verdict”, which is punishable by imprisonment.  

All three judges were previously included in the Russian Ministry of the Interior’s federal database of wanted persons.

The verdict in the January 13th case was handed down by the Vilnius Regional Court on 27 March 2019.

 

AUSTRALIAN-BALTIC PARLT GROUP AN IMPORTANT STEP FORWARD IN FOSTERING BILATERAL TIES – FORMIN

 

Vilnius, August 28 (ELTA) – On Monday, Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis met with Senator Deborah O’Neill of the Australian Parliament, chair of the Parliament group for relations with the Baltic States, to discuss intensifying relations between Australia and Lithuania, the ministry said in a press release.

"The Australia-Baltic parliamentary friendship group will help improve political and economic ties between our countries. It is a strong step in further strengthening cooperation between our parliaments and fostering bilateral relations,” the foreign minister said.

The Australian Parliament group was set up to improve political and economic ties between Australia and the Baltic States.

The Lithuanian minister thanked O’Neill for Australia’s support to Ukraine and discussed future support plans. Landsbergis also invited Australia to continue its undoubtedly appreciated and visible support to Ukraine.

The meeting also focused on the recently adopted Indo-Pacific Strategy and the growing economic cooperation between Lithuania and Australia.

"We hope that bilateral economic agreements between the European Union and Australia will further boost bilateral economic relations,” Landsbergis said.

Exports of products of Lithuanian origin to Australia increased by 44 % in 2022. The Australia-European Union Free Trade Agreement that is currently negotiated could significantly improve business conditions for companies in Australia, including Lithuania.

The foreign minister welcomed the deepening partnership between NATO and Australia and noted that Lithuania was honoured to receive Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese at the NATO Summit in Vilnius.

 

BRIGADE DEPLOYMENT PLANNING TO BE COMPLETE IN END-2023 – GERMAN CHIEF OF DEFENCE

 

Vilnius, August 28 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian and German chiefs of defence met on Monday to discuss the progress of a plan to station a brigade in Lithuania.

The meeting focussed on regional security and the German commitment to the security of the north-eastern flank of NATO and the EU. It also covered joint training and exercises, participation in international operations and Lithuania’s capacity to host German troops.

 "For a long time, Germany has been at the eastern edge of NATO, with Allied forces deployed to defend every centimetre of Alliance territory. It is time to restore the sense of solidarity and security that NATO allies have provided for decades, and Germany will deploy a brigade in Lithuania for a permanent presence,” Breuer said.

"By the end of this quarter, we will have completed the entire planning process to enter the implementation phase in early 2024. Most importantly, this deployment will be flexible and in line with NATO’s defence plans,” the chief of the German military said.

Breuer told reporters there were no delays in sending a brigade to Lithuania as he called for viewing it as a new complex process that takes time.

"Speed is very important for us. I have seen it in Lithuania today. It is the same in Germany,” he said.

According to Breuer, German troops would also need proper conditions to integrate in the community, besides the military infrastructure adjusted to the brigade.

"That means schools, kindergartens, opportunities to be in the community, and living conditions. It is not only about housing, but also about the possibility to live in the community, which is something that we discussed this morning, and we also discussed it at ministerial level,” the German top defence official said.

As part of his visit to Lithuania, Germany’s Chief of Defence Breuer watched the International Military Tattoo Lithuania 2023 Festival of military orchestras held in the weekend to mark the 30th anniversary of the withdrawal of the occupying Russian army from Lithuania.

"The presence of German troops in Lithuania is of particular importance to us for deterring the enemy in the neighbourhood and, if necessary, for enabling Lithuania’s forward defence. We are sincerely grateful for Germany’s willingness to share its experience with our troops and to build together a professionally interoperable German-Lithuanian military force,” Lithuania’s Chief of Defence Valdemaras Rupšys said after the meeting.

 

BELARUSIAN OPPOSITION LEADER PLEADS NOT TO CLOSE BORDERS WITH BELARUS

 

Vilnius, August 29 (ELTA) – Belarusian opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya is critical of the idea of Poland and the Baltic States of possible closure of borders with Belarus. She says open borders are vital in order for Belarusians to flee from the Alexander Lukashenko regime.

Speaking to LRT TV on Monday, Tsikhanouskaya stated that Belarusians can avoid repressions and imprisonment only by escaping through the border to European Union member states, whereas their closure would only serve Putin and Lukashenko regimes.

However, she agreed that if borders were to be closed this might affect Putin and Lukashenko in terms of transit because goods from China and Russia travel through Belarus and this contributes to sanction evasion.

Meanwhile, Pavel Latushko, former Belarusian ambassador to Poland, said in an interview to the Polish news agency PAP that, according to his sources, Wagner mercenaries are being issued Belarusian passports, actual documents but under different names. This, he says, would help them cross the border into the EU. He fears that Wagner fighters disguised as Belarusians might carry out sabotage operations or terrorist attacks.

On Monday, Minister of the Interior Agnė Bilotaitė met with Polish, Estonian and Latvian counterparts in Warsaw. They agreed that borders with Belarus would be fully closed in case of an armed incident or organised mass breakthrough of irregular migrants through the border.

So far, Lithuania has only temporarily closed two checkpoints at the border with Belarus, leaving four operational. However, it is considering closing two more in order to improve border security and tackle the smuggling of goods.

 

FOURTEEN IRREGULAR MIGRANTS TRIED TO CROSS FROM BELARUS TO LITHUANIA ON MONDAY

 

Vilnius, August 29 (ELTA) – On Monday, 28 August, Lithuanian border guards stopped 14 migrants from entering the country illegally from Belarus, said the State Border Guard Service (VSAT).

Latvian border guards turned away 57 irregular migrants who tried to cross from Belarus to Latvia on Monday, whereas Poland stopped 6 irregular migrants from entering the country via Belarus on Sunday.

So far in 2023, the VSAT has prevented 1,590 migrants from illegally accessing Lithuania via Belarus. The figures stood at 11,211 in 2022 and 8,106 in 2021.

Since the start of the migrant crisis caused by Belarus in 2021, Lithuania has thwarted a total of 20,907 illegal border crossing attempts.

 

RUSSIAN OFFICERS REFUSE HANDOVER OF FATHER AND CHILD HE ABDUCTED

 

Vilnius, August 28 (ELTA) – Russian border officials have refused to hand over the man, who crossed into the Kaliningrad region with his child he took from her mother illegally, to Lithuania.

"Russian border guards have confirmed the fact of border crossing and also said that the detained father is a citizen of Russia, which gives no grounds for the hand-over, according to them,” said a spokesman of the State Border Guard Service (VSAT), Giedrius Mišutis.

On Sunday, the VSAT asked the border service of the Kaliningrad region for a meeting to transfer the child and return her to the mother as soon as possible.

Russian officials responded that they saw no grounds for handing over both the man and his minor daughter to Lithuania, Mišutis clarified.

According to the Lithuanian border service, Russian officials have confirmed that the child is safe and has been taken care of.

As reported, on Sunday afternoon a man in his thirties with restricted custody kidnapped his daughter, born in 2022, from the mother and sailed in a boat across the Skirvytė River, western Lithuania, to the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad on the Baltic Sea.

Although Lithuanian border guards saw the boat and tried to make contact with the man, he did not respond. He was detained by Russian officers on the other side. A car possibly linked to the man was found on the riverbank on the Lithuanian side.

Pre-trial investigations into kidnapping and illegal border crossing were opened.

 

INVL TECHNOLOGY’S BUSINESS HOLDINGS REVENUE UP 34% AT EUR 29MN

 

Vilnius, August 28 (ELTA) – As at end of June this year, the equity and net asset value of INVL Technology, a company that invests in IT businesses, amounted to EUR 37.9 million, while equity value per share was EUR 3.1409. These indicators have decreased by 0.95% since the beginning of the year, the company said in a press release.

The company’s net loss in the first half of 2023 stood at EUR 0.44 million, compared to a net profit of EUR 1.28 million in the same period last year. Decreased success fee provision of EUR 2.3 million had a positive impact on the 2022 H1 results.

INVL Technology carries out a full financial valuation of its assets at the end of the financial year. The company’s business outlook and value dynamics are reflected in the interim reports of the holdings.

Performance of INVL Technology’s business holdings

The aggregated revenue of the companies managed by INVL Technology amounted to EUR 29 million in the first half of 2023, having increased by 34.2% year-on-year. Their gross profit grew by 42.4% to EUR 8.1 million during the comparative period, while the aggregated EBITDA reached EUR 1 million, respectively an increase of 9.2 times.

The revenue of these companies generated in Lithuania accounted for 58% of the total and came to EUR 16.8 million, showing a 13.3% increase in H1 year-on-year, while the revenue outside Lithuania grew by 79.3% to EUR 12.3 million, respectively.

During the reporting period, enterprises of NRD Companies posted a consolidated revenue of EUR 6.2 million, almost doubling it year-on-year. The group’s EBITDA amounted to EUR 0.6 million, respectively, reversing a negative result of EUR 0.4 million reported a year earlier.

The consolidated revenue of NRD Cyber Security reached EUR 2.8 million in the first half of 2023, a 13.7% increase year-on-year, while EBITDA climbed by 52.7% to EUR 0.4 million, respectively.

In the first half of 2023, the Novian group reported an aggregated revenue of EUR 18.5 million, up 27.6% from the same 2022 period. The group’s EBITDA reached EUR 0.2 million, a rise of 25.9%, respectively.

Revenue of Novian software development companies was EUR 4.3 million in the first half of 2023, up 19.8% year-on-year, and EBITDA was negative at EUR 0.3 million, while a year ago this negative indicator stood at EUR 0.17 million. This year’s EBITDA result was determined by the enlarged scope of one of the software development projects, devoted to the development of the public procurement information system in Lithuania. The Novian group comprises technology, software development and digitisation service companies.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Tuesday, August 29

Office of the president

10:15

To lay flowers at the memorial to the participants of the 1863-1864 uprising (Dubičiai Village, Varėna District);

10:40

To meet with top officials of the State Border Guard Service and officers from the Varėna Border Guard Unit (Barauskas Checkpoint, Mantotai Village, Varėna District);

11:50

To deliver remarks to the press (Barauskas Checkpoint, Mantotai Village, Varėna District);

14:05

To visit the Museum of Merkinė Region and lay flowers at the monument to Lithuanian partisan leader Adolfas Ramanauskas-Vanagas (Merkinė);

15:40

To meet with Mayor of Varėna Algis Kašėta (Varėna Cultural Center, Exhibition Hall, Basanavičiaus 17, Varėna);

17:30

Together with First Lady Diana Nausėdienė, to meet with the local community of Varėna District (Čiurlionytė School of Arts, Vytauto 29, Varėna).

9:00

To meet with Signatory of the Independence Act Algirdas Endriukaitis;

10:00

To meet with Ambassador of Denmark Hans Brask.

Office of the Government

8:05

To give interview to Ryto garsai (LRT Radio);

8:30

To hold an internal meeting;

9:30

To hold a working meeting.

Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas:

To attend an informal meeting of the European Union’s defence ministers in Toledo, Spain.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis:

To make a working visit to Romania; to meet with Minister of Foreign Affairs Luminița Odobescu of Romania for political consultations.

Minister of the Interior Agnė Bilotaitė:

16:00

To meet with the chargé d’affaires ad interim of the United States, Tamir Waser.

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis:

10:00

To meet with CEO of Ukrainian Railways Yevhen Liashchenko.

 

BUSINESS

 

9:00

The State Data Agency to present the latest results of a survey of consumer sentiment and an early estimate of inflation based on the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) for August.

10:30

The SEB Bank to present its macroeconomic review "Which economic gear will we shift to next year: R, N or D?”.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

ESTONIA’S METAPRINT HAS NOT ENGAGED IN SANCTIONS EVASION, SAYS CEO

 

Tallinn, August 28 (ELTA) – The owner and CEO of a company at the heart of controversy which has hit Prime Minister Kaja Kallas says that no sanctioned items had been produced by that company, Metaprint, nor transported by Stark Logistics, the ERR public broadcaster reports.

Kallas’ husband, Arvo Hallik, had a stake in Stark Logistics, which he now says he is selling.

Metaprint’s partner company on the ground in Russia, OOO Aeroprom, was formalized in the name of Metaprint’s financial manager, Emeri Lepp, at the suggestion of Metaprint’s lawyers, Martti Lemendik, the company’s CEO, says.

Metaprint has not been involved in sanctions-evading, he added.

The company primarily manufactures aerosol cans and, while the body packaging of such items are sanctioned, can tops and bottoms are not, and it is these which have continued to be supplied to Aeroprom in Russia, Lemendik said.

 

ESTONIA SUBJECT TO BIGGER WAVE OF CYBERATTACKS OVER PAST WEEK

 

Tallinn, August 28 (ELTA) – While Estonia typically sees less than ten reports of distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks a day, it has recently been the target of a bigger wave of cyberattacks, with the number of DDoS attack reports to the Information System Authority (RIA) reaching as high as 114 over the past 24 hours, the ERR public broadcaster reports.

Speaking to ERR, Tõnu Tammer, director of CERT-EE, the RIA department responsible for the management of security incidents in the .ee domain, said that Estonian websites and services have been subject to a bigger wave of cyberattacks over the past week.

"28 incidents were recorded on Thursday-Friday, for example, and according to preliminary information, as many as 114 over the past 24 hours,” Tammer said.

These were just the cases that either CERT-EE had automatically been notified of or whose victims had reported to the authority, he highlighted, adding, "Presumably there are actually more attacks than that.”

Typically, the RIA only sees reports of less than ten DDoS attacks a day.

 

LATVIAN PRESIDENT EXPECTS ANTI-CORRUPTION BUREAU TO STEP UP ACTIVITIES TO REGAIN PUBLIC TRUST IN GOVT

 

Riga, August 28 (ELTA) – Latvian President Edgars Rinkēvičs and Director of Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau Jēkabs Straume met on Monday at the Riga Castle, the presidency reports.

The meeting focused on Bureau’s Action Plan and current priorities.

According to President Rinkēvičs, corruption slows down the growth of Latvia and our national security depends on its prevention. He urged KNAB to identify activities that would help rebuild public trust in Bureau and encourage whistle-blowing, for instance, in cases of suspected official misconduct by government agencies.

"I expect Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau (KNAB) to step up its activities to regain the public trust in government and the state as a whole across Latvian society,” President Rinkēvičs underlined during the meeting.

Officials also discussed how to improve the capabilities of law enforcement agencies to prosecute financial crimes through more efficient, knowledge-based approach.

 

LATVIAN, ESTONIAN MFA SENIOR OFFICIALS DISCUSS CURRENT MATTERS ON THE INT’L AGENDA

 

Riga, August 28 (ELTA) – On Monday, the Latvian and Estonian Ministries of Foreign Affairs held their eighth informal seminar at the Dikļi Palace to discuss current international policy issues, the Latvian ministry said in a press release.

During the seminar, a bilateral meeting took place between the State Secretary of the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Andris Pelšs, and the Secretary-General of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Jonathan Vseviov.

The diplomats welcomed the close and multifaceted cooperation between the two countries and their good neighbourly relations. The Latvian state secretary thanked his colleague for Estonia’s support to Latvia on its path towards the UN Security Council elections. The partners stressed the need to continue providing assistance to Ukraine in every possible way.

Representatives from the Foreign Ministries exchanged views on the Russian aggression in Ukraine and Russia’s accountability for the crime of aggression. As regards the state of affairs in security policy, the importance of transatlantic relations was emphasised.

Officials from the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed their Estonian colleagues about the progress and main priorities of the Latvian Presidency at the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The participants also discussed topics high on the European Union’s agenda and issues concerning the regional energy market.

The informal seminar of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Latvia and Estonia is taking place for the eighth time. The previous seminar was held on 18 May 2022 in Estonia.

 

PAUSE DECLARED IN LATVIAN COALITION TALKS

 

Riga, August 29 (ELTA) – A pause until Wednesday has been declared in talks on a new coalition in Latvia. Chairman of the parliamentary group of the Union of Greens and Farmers (ZZS) Viktors Valainis told Latvian TV show Morning Panorama that the United List took a break in talks to consider whether to continue cooperating with the National Alliance or not, reports delfi.lv.

According to the MP, the United List is likely deliberating not whether it should join a coalition with the ZZS, but if it should make "the difficult choice” and break off close ties with the National Alliance, which have essentially developed into a political block.

Valainis says it is obvious that the United List wants to be in the new Government. He also does not rule out that the party’s manoeuvres may be aimed at securing a better position before talks on ministerial positions in the new Government.

Moreover, the politician said there are good opportunities for the ZZS to cooperate with the New Unity under the leadership of prime minister designate Evika Siliņa. He also assumes that the Progressives could reach common ground with the ZZS and the New Unity and join the coalition.

As reported earlier, talks on a new coalition include the New Unity (26 seats in the Latvian Parliament), the Union of Greens and Farmers (ZZS) (16 seats), the United List (15 seats), the National Alliance (13 seats) and the Progressives (10 seats).

A new Government has to be formed following the resignation of Krišjānis Kariņš as prime minister.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230829ej8t000dx


Latvian pundit says Moscow House in Riga should be closed
1084 字
2023 年 9 月 25 日 11:33 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
The following is the text of an article by Elita Veidemane entitled "The Justice Minister has come to cry at the poster, but Moscow House is still working" and published by the centrist daily Neatkariga on 21 September:

There is nothing more important to the Justice Ministry than the ratification of the Istanbul Convention: Justice Minister Inese Libina-Egnere (New Unity) has published a heartbreaking message on the social network with the hashtag #EsGaidu [I am waiting in Latvian]: "I am waiting for the Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence to be finally ratified. @tieslietas [Justice Ministry] expresses support and solidarity for all victims of violence." And when it is ratified, the times of happiness will come. But it does not seem that it will be the case.

I wonder how much time must pass and some clarity of mind must dawn for the supporters of the Istanbul Convention to finally understand that no Istanbul Convention will change anything in the psychology and actions of the abusers. Only consistent observance of the law and principled stance of law enforcement officers can change something. But these "indicators" are somehow faltering, and demonstratively sticking the Istanbul Convention on the forehead will not cure this faltering.

But this time, the story is not about the essay of Istanbul, not even about how handsomely the employees of the Justice Ministry, together with the minister, took a picture in front of the poster from Resource Centre Marta [helping victims of domestic violence], which calls for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. The picture was posted on Twitter to show the true concern for the vulnerable.

This time the story is about the so-called Moscow House in Riga, on Alfreda Kalnina street: the representation of the capital of Nazi Russia with the coat of arms of Moscow still stands in the centre of Riga. The war caused by Russia has been going on in Ukraine for almost two years now, but neither the Justice Ministry nor the Saeima [Latvian parliament] has been able to create a law in a year and a half that would allow confiscation of this shameful reminder of occupation and aggression. The same confiscation applies to the sanatoriums Yantarniy Bereg and Belorussiya located in Jurmala [sea resort city].

I sent two questions to the Justice Ministry:

1. When will the long-promised law on the confiscation of Moscow House, sanatoriums Yantarniy Bereg and Belorussiya be presented?

2. Why are anti-state meetings allowed to take place in the Moscow House?

I received a reply signed by the press secretary of the ministry, Zane Jekabsone: "The Ministry of Justice (TM) is involved in the work of the National Security Committee of the Saeima and provides its assistance within the competence of the TM, so that the activities of sanctioned subjects threatening national security are stopped. Currently, the legal regulation is being developed together with the Legal Office of the Saeima. Monitoring of compliance with sanctions in Latvia is provided by several state institutions. You can find out more about the sanction monitoring mechanism here: https://lvportals.lv/trevnojumi/346362-sankcijas-kas-par-ko-ir-atbildigs-2022[https://lvportals.lv/trevnojumi/346362-sankcijas-kas-par-ko-ir-atbildigs-2022]

We cannot provide more information or comments on this at this stage. According to the law, it can be done by the Presidium of the National Security Committee."

First of all, it should be noted that Saeima committees do not have a presidium, only a chairman. On the other hand, the answer in general shows the stormy work of the Justice Ministry where... nothing happens. The ministry is involved, provides assistance, we cannot provide more information... Simply put, the confiscation of Moscow House and sanatoriums is a state secret, while nothing is known about the anti-state meetings.

It seems that the only movement from the body of the Justice Ministry was due to the freezing of the assets of the Moscow House: this house is owned by the property department of the city of Moscow and is effectively controlled by [Vladimir] Putin. However, financial resources have been reserved to manage and protect the building. Hence, everything is happening in this house and anti-state rallies can continue.

It is precisely the lack of clarity about the actions of the Moscow House that allows it to function smoothly. And it will be so, it seems, in the future as well, because the Justice Ministry has not done anything to create a draft law on the confiscation of the house, nor have the members of the Saeima done anything.

The chairman of the National Security Committee of the Saeima, Janis Dombrava (National Alliance), admits that MPs have the political will to confiscate the mentioned objects, solving this issue to the end. "But a legal solution is needed," he says, "and we are waiting for the lawyers to offer us that solution. We hope to see it soon. If this solution does not come for a long time, we can also solve this issue in a not so legally perfectly polished way. I believe that this issue should be resolved in this autumn session."

Dombrava told that former Justice Minister Janis Bordans [minister in 2019-2022] (New Conservative Party) promised that the Justice ministry would immediately have a solution. There was no solution. "Let him himself answer why there was no solution found," adds Dombrava and hopes that journalists and politicians will not let this issue of Moscow House be left without attention.

Of course, there should be no relaxation on this, but the Justice Ministry and the National Security Committee (for now) headed by Janis Dombrava have quite different opinions on what is the priority: the confiscation of the Moscow House and sanatoriums or the ratification of the Istanbul Convention.

While the Justice Ministry will make support demonstrations in front of the poster of the Resource Center Marta to shout about the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, it will not have time to draft a bill on the confiscation of the Moscow House and sanatoriums.

It is known that such Moscow houses are still located in Belarus - Minsk, Armenia's capital Yerevan, Bulgaria's capital Sofia. And, of course, in the very tolerant Riga - while, for example, in Vilnius, this shameful building will be demolished. Then maybe the Justice Ministry should relax about the convention? There are more important things to think about.

(See the original here )

Source: Neatkariga, Riga, in Latvian 21 Sep 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020230925ej9p001b9


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11126
President Gitanas Nausėda: Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen: Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Ministries Karolis Broga
4340 字
2023 年 9 月 27 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11126 (95532) WEDNESDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 27

 

NAUSĖDA WILL MEET WITH PRESIDENT OF GEORGIA

 

Vilnius, September 27 (ELTA) – President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda will meet with President of Georgia Salome Zourabichvili at the Presidential Palace in Vilnius on Wednesday.

The heads of state will discuss the security situation in the region, Georgia’s euro-integration issues, its progress in delivering reforms and the implementation of recommendations of the European Commission.

The welcoming ceremony in the Courtyard of the Presidential Palace will take place at 11 a.m.

 

TAIWANESE INVESTMENT NOT BRINGING ‘HUGE’ ECONOMIC BENEFIT YET, PRESIDENCY SAYS

 

Vilnius, September 26 (ELTA) – Asta Skaisgirytė, chief foreign affairs adviser to the president, says friendly relations between Taiwan and Lithuania have not brought any significant investment and economic benefit yet. However, she is optimistic that the Taiwanese investment in Lithuania will rise eventually.

"More could have been expected from Taiwan. When the Taiwanese set up their representative office in Lithuania, they promised huge investments and economic benefits. So far, there has been little sign of it. But we hope that the economic ties between Lithuania and Taiwan will continue to grow and we will see larger Taiwanese investment over time,” Skaisgirytė told Žinių radijas on Tuesday.

The talk is about economic ties, not political ones, she noted.

The presidential adviser also believes that Lithuania and China should at least restore their diplomatic ties.

In January-June this year, the export of Lithuanian goods to China increased by four times. Skaisgirytė doubted whether this situation could be seen as pointing to the normalisation of the bilateral relations.

"I would not say that it is a completely normal situation, because we do not have an ambassador to China yet, and there is no Chinese ambassador in Lithuania either. It is not a completely restored relationship. But it would be good if it was maintained at least at a diplomatic level,” she commented.

According to the State Data Agency, Lithuanian exports to China totalled EUR 40.7 million in the first six months of 2023, up from 11.8 million recorded in the first half of last year.

 

LITHUANIA’S FORMIN ATTENDS OSCE MEETING

 

Vilnius, September 27 (ELTA) – On 26 September, Lithuania’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis attended a reinforced meeting of the Permanent Council of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), strongly condemned Russia’s ongoing aggression against Ukraine and criticised Russia’s actions paralysing OSCE activities, reports the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

"A country that completely disregards our values cannot be allowed to dictate our agenda and violate our principles,” Lithuania’s foreign minister said.

Landsbergis stressed the need for OSCE countries to resist blackmail and to take a firm stand against the aggressor.

With Russia blocking OSCE’s decisions, the participating states must find a way to approve the 2024 Chairmanship, decide on renewing the mandate of the OSCE Secretary General and the heads of the three autonomous institutions, and adopt the organisation’s budget.

The foreign minister expressed Lithuania’s support for Estonia’s candidacy for the OSCE chairmanship in 2024.

"Estonia is well prepared to lead the organisation during these turbulent times,” said Landsbergis, who also supported the renewal of the mandate of the OSCE Secretary General and the heads of the three autonomous institutions.

"It is clear that no issue can be held ‘hostage’ by Russia’s blackmail. We must not demand blessing from a country that is willing to destroy this organisation,” Landsbergis added.

In his speech, Landsbergis proposed to rethink the way the OSCE operates, including using a consensus decision-making process, and to expel Russia from the OSCE.

The foreign minister urged the OSCE to actively defend the fundamental principles of the OSCE enshrined in the Helsinki Final Act, which Russia continues to shamelessly violate – respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity of states and inviolability of state borders, non-use of force. The OSCE, the world’s largest regional security organisation designed to address comprehensive security and stability, human rights, economic and environmental issues in the region with 57 states from Europe and Central Asia, faces existential challenges due to Russia’s obstructive actions.

 

NATO JETS SCRAMBLED ONCE FROM LITHUANIA LAST WEEK

 

Vilnius, September 27 (ELTA) – On 18-24 September, fighter aircraft conducting the NATO Air Policing Mission in the Baltic States were scrambled once to identify and escort aircraft of the Russian Federation flying in violation of flight rules in international airspace over the Baltic Sea, said the Ministry of National Defence.

On 21 September, NATO Air Policing fighter jets intercepted two SU-30SM and one KA-27 aflight from Kaliningrad to international airspace and back.

Their onboard transponders were switched off, the crews were not maintaining radio communication with the regional air traffic control centre and did not have pre-filed flight plans.

 

THREE CANDIDATES IN RACE FOR LRT CHIEF POST – COUNCIL

 

Vilnius, September 26 (ELTA) – Three candidates have been formally registered for the election of the public broadcaster’s director general, the LRT Council said on Tuesday.

The selection procedure due 3 October will see the LRT’s interim director general, Monika Garbačiauskaitė-Budrienė, Vilnius University associate professor Mantas Martišius and former LRT employee Aldaras Stonys vying for the post.

The LRT council also said it had rejected the application of Zenonas Andrulėnas, chair of NGO National Education Council, for failing to present all the documents required for the procedure.

Two previous attempts to elect the LRT director general this year have failed, with none of the candidates securing most of the votes.

The second failed election in June prompted media speculation on possibly flawed election rules and the 12-member LRT Council’s unwillingness to vote for any candidate until the new leader is elected.

 

TWENTY IRREGULAR MIGRANTS TRIED TO CROSS FROM BELARUS TO LITHUANIA ON TUESDAY

 

Vilnius, September 27 (ELTA) – On 26 September, Tuesday, Lithuanian border guards prevented 20 migrants from accessing the country illegally via Belarus.

Border guards in neighbouring Latvia turned away 90 irregular migrants on Tuesday as they tried to cross from Belarus to Latvia, whereas Poland stopped 53 irregular migrants from entering the country from Belarus a day earlier.

So far in 2023, the State Border Guard Service of Lithuania (VSAT) has prevented 1,731 migrants from crossing the border illegally via Belarus. The figure stood at 11,211 in 2022 and 8,106 in 2021.

Since the start of the migrant crisis caused by Belarus in 2021, Lithuania has thwarted a total of 21,048 illegal border crossing attempts.

 

LTG CARGO REJECTED 19 FREIGHT APPLICATIONS OVER PAST WEEK

 

Vilnius, September 26 (ELTA) – LTG Cargo, freight company of Lithuanian Railways Group (LTG), received 379 applications for transporting freight between Lithuania and other countries on 18-24 September. Out of these, 19 were turned down under the company’s policy of zero tolerance for sanction evasion.

The company gave the green light to 285 applications. A decision on 75 applications will be adopted once data provided by clients is examined in more detail. Two of the rejected freight applications were meant for exports or imports from or to Belarus.

Over the past week, LTG Cargo refused to transport 17 container waggons, 6 waggons with building materials, 75 waggons with food products, 46 waggons with petroleum and its products, 10 waggons with chemical and mineral fertilisers and 6 waggons with other miscellaneous cargo.

 

MINISTRY OPENS EUR 12MN CALL TO SET UP PUBLIC ELECTRIC CAR CHARGING BAYS

 

Vilnius, September 26 (ELTA) – The Ministry of Transport and Communications has announced the launch of a call for building public charging stations for electric vehicles (EV). The first phase is funded by EUR 12 million.

The initiative is expected to result in the installation of over 1,200 public and semi-public charging bays on private initiative in 42 municipalities, along arterial and national roads, at petrol stations, railway and bus stations, airports, inland waterways and sea ports, according to the ministry.

The record investment will expand the network of public and semi-public charging bays in Lithuania to 7,000 from the current 1,000 by 2030.

"We are happy to announce the first call for tenders for EUR 12 million of the record funding planned by the Ministry of Transport and Communications for this year. This is a new starting point for Lithuania to accelerate the expansion of its electric vehicle charging infrastructure network. This call for the private sector is targeted where investors see the greatest potential and EV drivers feel the need – on important national roads and in cities and towns,” says Deputy Transport Minister Agnė Vaiciukevičiūtė.

The measure to promote the private development of public EV charging infrastructure consists of 12 separate calls. They are set to provide funding for the installation of charging stations with access for electric vehicles of different capacities: normal (11-22 kW), medium (22-49 kW), high (49-149 kW) and very high (149 kW and above).

The current number of registered EVs in Lithuania is above 17,000. Buyers of pure EVs are entitled to compensation ranging from EUR 2,500 to EUR 5,000.

 

ELEVING GROUP COMMENCES EXCHANGE OFFER FOR BONDHOLDERS

 

Vilnius, September 26 (ELTA) – Eleving Group, Latvia-headquartered leading provider of financial and mobility solutions, on Tuesday launched an offer to exchange the 2021/2024 bonds issued by Eleving Group’s subsidiary Mogo AS for a new senior secured and guaranteed EUR bond offering.

The company said in its press release that the exchange offer period for Eleving Group’s new bonds is set to last from 26 September until 13 October 2023. All existing holders of Mogo AS unsecured bonds are offered the opportunity to exchange their existing bonds for new Eleving Group senior secured and guaranteed bonds with a higher coupon rate.

Each bond has a nominal value of EUR 100.00. The new bonds maturing in 2028 will have a coupon rate of 12-13.5% and interest payable quarterly. The final coupon will be determined on or around 2 October 2023.

Eleving Group has mandated Signet Bank AS (Latvia), Redgate Capital AS (Estonia), Evernord UAB FMĮ (Lithuania), and Bankhaus Scheich Wertpapierspezialist AG (Germany) to arrange a series of European professional investor meetings in connection with the new bond offering of up to EUR 75 million Senior Secured Guaranteed Bonds maturing in 2028.

The exchange ratio is 1:10, as a result of different denominations of the bonds, i.e., Mogo 2021/2024 notes denominated at EUR 1 000.00 each, and the new Eleving Group 2023/2028 notes at EUR 100.00 each.

The public offering in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Germany will start on 2 October and will end on 20 October 2023.

The new Eleving Group 2023/2028 bonds are expected to be listed for trading on or around 31 October 2023, on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange’s regulated market (General Standard) and the Baltic regulated market of the Nasdaq Riga Stock Exchange, according to the company.

Modestas Sudnius, Group CEO of Eleving Group, commented: "Given our global ambitions and rapid growth, tapping the capital markets is a strategic activity for our company. The financial instruments raised to date have been one of the key drivers contributing to the growth of the Eleving Group's net portfolio. This is an excellent time for investors to purchase Baltic corporate bonds, as they are offered with an attractive interest rates, which in turn translates into higher investment returns.”

"In addition, the range of the coupon rate we are offering far exceeds various other investment opportunities, including bank deposits. It is important to note that the bond return is fixed throughout the commitment period, and bondholders continue to receive a consistently high and fixed interest income,” the CEO said.

 

IGNITIS RENEWABLES TO CARRY OUT A RARE BIODIVERSITY STUDY

 

Vilnius, September 26 (ELTA) – Ignitis Renewables, international green energy company, says it is taking additional measures to protect biodiversity in the vicinity of renewable energy projects it manages. The company is carrying out the first study in Lithuania on the environmental impact of green energy plants.

Experts will spend three years assessing the changes in flora and fauna at the solar park being built in Tauragė district.

The company of Ignitis Group aims to develop best practices and it will apply environmental initiatives in its other projects both in Lithuania and in other countries.

Lina Žibienė, Head of Environment and Permitting at Ignitis Renewables, points out that biodiversity conservation is one of the key objectives of the company’s sustainability strategy. According to the expert, green energy is closely linked to nature and its preservation.

"When we build solar or wind farms, we inevitably have an impact on the environment. That is why it was decided to carry out the first study in Lithuania to identify how the flora and fauna of an area change after a solar park is built. Although green energy is developing rapidly, such studies are not common worldwide. The studies need to be carried out by competent specialists with the knowledge and experience to identify plant species accurately and to assess objectively the age of maturity of the different plant species. Moreover, the study takes time, at least three years,” comments Žibienė.

Maintaining biodiversity is a key objective

Žibienė hopes that the study, funded by Ignitis Renewables, will help to shape best practices in the operation of solar parks. It is hoped that the findings of the study will be of interest not only to businesses but also to researchers. The data is collected in Lauksargiai eldership, Tauragė district. The area will be used for the development of green energy production through the installation of a hybrid wind and solar park. The wind farms have already been built and a 22 MW solar park is being built next to them.

"Our study will monitor the diversity of flora and fauna: before the power plants are built, while they are in operation, and one year after they start operating. This will help us to see how biodiversity changes when solar power plants are installed and how nature recovers over time. We will also be working on a range of environmental initiatives to see how they help improve the environment,” says the representative of the green energy company.

Žibienė says that the environment is most affected during the construction process itself. According to the expert, the soil is compacted by heavy machinery and construction work, which leads to soil erosion. "Construction machinery alters the vegetation, breaking up herbaceous plants and weakening the seed bank deep in the ground. Insects feel the soil degradation. In nature, everything is interconnected, so as insect populations decline, rodents, birds and eventually larger animals find it harder to find food,” says the expert.

Creating favourable conditions for birds and animals

According to Žibienė, Ignitis Renewables is looking for ways to build and maintain solar power plants to minimise their negative impact on the environment. The company is also planning voluntary environmental initiatives to improve the state of nature.

"For example, in the hybrid park, we are following best practice principles and putting in place measures to protect biodiversity. We plan to install a fence that will be no more than 2.5 m high and up to 0.5 m above the ground, which will allow small animals to move around freely. The fences surrounding the solar park will be painted in neutral colours. The perimeter of the fenced area will be more than four kilometres, so it has been decided to install 10 single gates so that roe-deer or other animals that accidentally enter the area can escape more safely,” says Žibienė about the protection of wild animals.

Another interesting solution is to create perching areas for birds of prey and owls. Žibienė points out that the area of the hybrid solar and wind park has a larger population of the Buteoninae, which hunt while perching. Therefore, 13 bird stands will be installed in the area.

Solar and wind power plants will be surrounded by clover fields

In the area of the solar park, Ignitis Renewables also plans to plant natural herbaceous plants that are specific to that area. According to Žibienė, the company wants to test this measure, which is still rarely used in Lithuania, and share its experience.

"We want to prove that green energy can not only repair damage caused by human activity, but also improve the environment. Before, the site was covered with stubble left over from the cessation of farming activities, and low-value weeds. After the construction of the park, we plan to sow a seed mix of grasses specific to the site and specially selected by experts, including ragged-robin, spreading bellflower, meadow pea, and zigzag clover, while the rest will be left to regenerate on their own, i.e. to grow back naturally. It is important to mention that we consult specialists (botanists, ornithologists, etc.) on all the solutions and follow their recommendations. During the operation of the park, the meadow will be maintained and mowed at a time that is favourable for animals and birds, when they are not making nests or laying eggs,” comments the company’s representative.

Žibienė reminds that after all of the above-mentioned solutions have been applied, a biodiversity study will be carried out on the site in a year’s time to assess how the flora and fauna have changed during the operation of the solar park. To ensure the quality of the data collected, the study will be carried out by researchers in accordance with strict regulations on research methodology.

Ignitis Renewables will apply all environmental initiatives not only in the park in Tauragė district, but also in its other projects. The information gathered by the green energy company will be freely shared not only with other companies in the energy sector, but also with naturalists and environmentalists.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Wednesday, September 27

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

11:00

To meet with President Salome Zourabichvili of Georgia (Presidential Palace, S. Daukanto 3).

 

SEIMAS

 

8:00

To give interview on Žinių radijas broadcast Pozicija;

9:00

To attend a sitting of the Board of the Seimas;

10:00

To meet with Violeta Meiliūnaitė, chair of the State Commission of the Lithuanian Language;

11:00

To hold an internal meeting;

12:15

To join an episode on podcast Drąsa būti lydere.

Office of the Government

9:45

To inspect a synchronous compensator in Alytus district;

12:30

To hold a working meeting;

13:00

To chair a meeting and sitting of the Cabinet;

13:30

To chair an informal meeting of the Ministers;

15:00

To meet with Archbishop of Vilnius Gintaras Grušas and the leader of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, Sviatoslav Shevchuk.

Minister of the Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė:

8:00

To give interview to US media;

9:15

To address Vilnius Space Days 2023;

10:30

To meet with representatives of Space X;

11:30

To attend conference on sustainability Tvarumo kursas;

16:45

To deliver a closing speech at the Forum on Bioeconomy Innovation and Business Development In Lithuania.

Minister of Culture Simonas Kairys:

To attend an informal meeting of the European Union (EU) culture ministers in Spain.

Minister of Justice Ewelina Dobrowolska:

11:00

To meet with Ambassador of France Alix Everard.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis:

To meet with Ambassador of Sweden Lars Wahlund.

 

BUSINESS

 

Conference Vilnius Space Days to officially open ESA Business Incubation Centres in Lithuania, located in Vilnius, Visoriai Information Technology Park, and Tech-Park Kaunas.

8:30

Radisson Collection Astorija to host a conference for business and science communities. Speakers at the event include representatives from SpaceX, Airbus Defence and Space, Frentech Aerospace, United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs, European Space Agency and other organisations.

9:00

The State Data Agency to publish the latest results of a survey on consumer sentiment, price changes in construction input prices, research and experimental activities in Lithuania, turnover of retail trade and catering enterprises, and a flash estimate of inflation for September based on the harmonised index of consumer prices (HICP).

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

ESTONIAN DEFMIN SAYS GERMANY’S ROLE IN REGIONAL SECURITY HAS INCREASED

 

Tallinn, September 26 (ELTA) – Estonian Minister of Defence Hanno Pevkur on Tuesday in Tallinn met with Germany’s Minister of Defence Boris Pistorius, to discuss security in the Baltic Sea region and Europe more broadly, as well as the Russian war of aggression in Ukraine, the ministry reports.

"Germany’s role in the security of the region has grown significantly, both in supporting Ukraine and contributing to the security of the Baltic Sea region. Both Germany’s military aid packages for Ukraine and the decisions made to strengthen the entire Baltic region speak a clear language that Germany takes supporting Ukraine as well as its obligations to Allies extremely seriously. In addition, the German defence industry is a vital partner for Estonia, because after the signing of the contract on medium-range air defence, Germany has become the largest defence procurement partner for Estonia,” Pevkur said.

In recent years, defence cooperation between Germany and Estonia has considerably grown. German fighters participate regularly in the NATO Baltic Air Policing mission to secure the skies, and Germany is the framework nation for enhanced presence in Lithuania. The cost of the medium-range air defence system IRIS-T procured from a German company Diehl Defence is nearly 400 million Euros. Today Germany is one of Ukraine’s largest military support providers. Together, Estonia and Germany have sent Ukraine two military field hospitals.

"In our support for Ukraine, we are all working towards the same goal,” German Minister of Defence Boris Pistorius said.

According to Pistorius, he is happy to go ahead with the contracts for the ammunition procurements to contribute to EU initiative started by Estonia. Pistorius emphasised that ammunition remains a critical factor of Ukraine´s sustainability.

During his visit, the German minister visited the Ämari Air Base, where he also met with the Spanish NASAMS air defence unit, as well as NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence. Tomorrow, Pistorius will participate at the Annual Baltic Conference on Defence (ABCD) and meet Estonian President Alar Karis.

 

ESTONIA TO CLOSE NEW YORK AND SAN FRANCISCO CONSULATES IN 2024

 

Tallinn, September 26 (ELTA) – The Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is set to make 45 staff layoffs and close consulates in New York and San Francisco from the summer of 2024, the ERR public broadcaster reports.

In a press release, the ministry said that its economic diplomacy and consular services to the United States will be reorganised. As part of this process, the Estonian Embassy in Washington will be staffed with a consular diplomat and an economic diplomat.

"Supporting business diplomacy and companies in international markets will remain a central focus of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' work, and we are looking at ways to do this more effectively. We plan to expand Estonia’s network of honorary consuls, which will provide consular assistance to Estonian citizens as well as help promote Estonia's business interests in the US,” said Minister of Foreign Affairs Margus Tsahkna.

 

LATVIAN PRESIDENT SAYS GEORGIA SHOULD DO ITS UTMOST TO BECOME EU CANDIDATE COUNTRY

 

Riga, September 26 (ELTA) – Latvian President Edgars Rinkēvičs on Tuesday met with President of Georgia Salome Zourabichvili in Riga to discuss Georgia’s European integration process, the presidency reports.

President Rinkēvičs urged for more progress in the implementation of reforms and the fulfilment of recommendations for a European Union (EU) candidate status. He also noted that the overwhelming majority of Georgians support their country’s irreversible progress towards EU membership.

"Taking into account the expectations of the Georgian society and the significant support for European integration, the political forces of Georgia should do their utmost to seize the historic opportunity, fulfil the recommendations of the European Union and obtain the candidate status," the president of Latvia emphasised.

President Rinkēvičs also noted that Georgia should join the EU Common Foreign and Security Policy, including the EU sanctions against Russia.

 

LATVIA CHANNELS EUR 100,000 TOWARDS DISASTER RELIEF EFFORTS IN MOROCCO AND LIBYA

 

Riga, September 26 (ELTA) – Latvia’s Cabinet of Ministers on Tuesday passed a decision to allocate EUR 50,000 in financial resources to Morocco to deal with the consequences of the tragic earthquake and the same amount to Libya towards relief efforts in the wake of devastating floods, the Foreign Ministry said in a press release.

On 8 September 2023, Morocco was struck by the strongest earthquake in the country’s history. According to the United Nations data, the devastating 6.8-magnitude quake has affected more than 300,000 people, leaving over 2,900 of them dead. Significant damage has been caused and there are many casualties, including in Morocco’s major cities.

Meanwhile, on 11 September, devastating flooding broke out in the east of Libya following Storm Daniel, which hit the port city of Dern particularly hard, causing two dams to collapse and wiping out a quarter of the city. At least 900,000 people have been affected by the tragic disaster in Libya, according to the UN. Although the figures on the loss of life varies significantly between organisations, there is no doubt that this is one of the most devastating natural disasters in Libya’s history.

In solidarity with the international community, a contribution is planned to be paid into a special account opened with the Central Bank of Morocco for the purpose of coordination of international assistance. As regards assistance to the people of Libya, payments will be made into the Latvian Red Cross account and then channelled through the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent societies (IFRC).

Financing has been allocated from the State budget programme, "Contingency Funds”.

In 2023, Latvia has provided support for disaster relief in Syria, Turkey, and Slovenia.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230927ej9r000dx


Foreign Ministry's state secretary expresses support for Ukraine's integration with EU
Inese Trenča
282 字
2023 年 10 月 2 日 15:19 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
RIGA, Oct 2 (LETA) - On October 2, the Secretary of State of the Latvian Foreign Ministry, Andris Pelss, attended the informal meeting of the European Union (EU) Foreign Ministers in Kyiv, Ukraine, LETA learned from the ministry.

It was the first joint meeting of EU Foreign Ministers in Ukraine since the Russian Federation's full-scale military aggression against Ukraine on February 24, 2022. The joint meeting in Kyiv confirms the EU’s unity and unwavering support for Ukraine.

The Foreign Ministers addressed the current situation in Ukraine, the EU’s plans for further support to Ukraine, as well as cooperation with global partners on promoting a rules-based international order and assistance to Ukraine. Pelss reaffirmed Latvia’s commitment to further provision of the necessary support to Ukraine in the long term, including by providing military equipment, engaging in the reconstruction work and helping prepare for the new winter season. The State Secretary also expressed support for Ukraine’s Eurointegration process, including the opening of EU accession negotiations with Ukraine already before the end of 2023. Pelss also underlined the importance of reforms and welcomed the progress made so far in implementing reforms under the war conditions.

The EU Foreign Ministers were addressed by the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who thanked the EU Member States for their current support, highlighting in particular the importance of armament and the training of Ukrainian soldiers. President Zelenskyy called for a continued and intensified sanction pressure on Russia, including active measures to prevent the circumvention of sanctions. It is vital that work continues on the development of peace initiatives.

37343838313830322D423646442D3441

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020231002eja20025t


Russia This Week - October 27, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 10 月 27 日, 39262 字, (英文)
Latvia has become EU's largest importer of corn from RussiaThis year, the import of grain from the aggressor state Russia has grown rapidly in Latvia, despite its staunch support of Ukraine, eng.lsm.lv, the website of national broadcaster ...

Opinion: What keeps a Latvian awake at night?
Opinion by David A. Andelman
1396 字
2023 年 10 月 28 日 23:47 GMT
CNN Wire
CNNWR
英文
Copyright 2023 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.
Riga, Latvia (CNN) — What keeps Latvians, particularly their president, awake at night these days? Perhaps it is a simple confluence of circumstances. Suddenly, a war that still appears a potentially existential threat not far from their doorstep is being supplanted in the larger world's attention by violence 1,200 miles to the south of this Baltic capital.

For if Russian President Vladimir Putin succeeds in subduing, then absorbing Ukraine, the nation of Latvia still shares a tense, 206-mile[https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook/countries/latvia/] frontier with Russia and 100 more miles[https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook/countries/latvia/] with the Kremlin's closest ally, Belarus — in contrast with the 36-mile border[https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook/countries/gaza-strip/] between Israel and Gaza. If Putin is anxious to rebuild a Soviet-style empire, the threat here could certainly be immediate, but especially proximate.

"We have always realized this challenge of Russia even before the illegal annexation of Crimea back in 2014, even before Russia launched the war against Georgia," Latvia's determined president Edgars Rinkevics told me in a wide-ranging conversation on the sidelines of the Riga Conference 2023[https://rigaconference.lv/] last week. "One of the reasons why Latvia, along with Lithuania and Estonia did their best to join NATO and the EU[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/topics_52044.htm] [in 2004] was a realization, even back in the 1990s, that Russia was going to change and for the worse, not for the better."

"These are challenging times, but I would say that we do understand that we need to be prepared for all kinds of surprises." The Latvian leader says he doesn't believe Russia would try to attack a NATO or EU member but it'd certainly "push the envelope in all ways possible."

Still, if there is a single European leader capable of navigating these treacherous shoals, it is Latvia's newly-minted president — who just turned 50 years old and is three months into his term at the helm of this Baltic nation. For his entire life, he has lived in the shadow of Russia. Born as a citizen of the Soviet Union when Latvia was a Soviet republic, he lived through his nation's struggle for independence before serving for a dozen years as foreign minister. Now, since July, he has been its president.

Slight of build, but with a commanding, if low-key presence, his piercing blue eyes fix any visitor, conveying at once sympathy and a brilliance in command of every nuance of policy and circumstance. He is equally unique among European leaders — the only openly gay EU head of state[https://www.nbcnews.com/nbc-out/out-politics-and-policy/openly-gay-head-state-latvia-president-edgars-rinkevics-rcna93436].

And now, one threat to his equilibrium and that of his nation is the reality that the world's attention has been diverted, at least for the moment, to the Middle East. But Rinkevics is persuaded this is not the time for western democracies in particular to take their eyes off the ball, as similar as the two conflicts may be in their fundamentals.

"I do believe that both Russia as a state and Hamas as a non-state actor do want to destroy the set of universal values of democracy, human rights, rule of law as we know it. Of course, one is also a nuclear power, trying to restore some kind of empire — looking not back to the Soviet Union, but back to Peter the Great. The difference is that on the one hand, this is a fight between two states —Russia and Ukraine — and then there is the fight between the state of Israel and Hamas, terrorists."

Indeed, the battle over support for the two conflicts is being waged as fiercely in Europe as it is in a dysfunctional Washington, as Rinkevics certainly appreciates.

Speaking the morning after President Joe Biden declared from the Oval Office that America is still "a beacon to the world," Rinkevics is still very much counting on the US, even while there is considerable skepticism building in some European quarters that the US can be relied on — especially after high-level trade talks between the US and EU broke down[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-10-19/us-and-eu-stall-on-a-steel-accord-risking-a-return-of-tariffs?accessToken=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzb3VyY2UiOiJTdWJzY3JpYmVyR2lmdGVkQXJ0aWNsZSIsImlhdCI6MTY5ODA2NzU1NiwiZXhwIjoxNjk4NjcyMzU2LCJhcnRpY2xlSWQiOiJTMlNFTFRUMVVNMFgwMSIsImJjb25uZWN0SWQiOiIzOUQ2QTYxMEZENjk0OTc0OEUzRjM2MTAwNDUwMDk3OCJ9.zIbb1kWjUPaEb7kvJOkP6Vjq0ZMIiZgaG4Bx56Z0kZY] last weekend.

And clearly Washington recognizes the value of this relationship. Last week, the State Department signed off on Latvia's purchase of six HIMARS[https://www.dsca.mil/press-media/major-arms-sales/latvia-m142-high-mobility-artillery-rocket-systems] (high mobility artillery rocket systems) and associated equipment — the 300-kilometer-range variety that for a long time the Biden administration had refused[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/us-will-not-send-ukraine-rocket-systems-that-can-reach-russia-says-biden-2022-05-30/] to authorize for Ukraine.

At the same time, on Thursday, leaders of all EU governments gathered in Brussels[https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-leaders-von-der-leyen-face-two-wars-ukraine-israel-palestine-middle-east-conflict/?utm_source=email&utm_medium=alert&utm_campaign=Two%20wars%20threaten%20to%20overload%20Europe%27s%20leaders] in an effort to chart a unified path between these two conflicts —with Gaza topping Ukraine for the first time since the Russian invasion— at a preliminary session of European foreign ministers. The final agreement[https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-leaders-call-for-humanitarian-pauses-in-middle-east-war/] was an attempt to balance both sides of the Israel and Gaza conflict, but calling for a humanitarian cease fire and corridor in Gaza to prevent a cataclysm for the civilian population. US officials were not present at the summit conference.

"We do see things that are changing rapidly, but at the same time, many in Europe, especially in my part of Europe, believe the United States is still leader of the free world."

Rinkevics is every inch a realist. "Some people in the United States think they are so powerful they can address all challenges alone," he pointed out. "Some people here in Europe think we can develop a strong Europe. The fact is that if we really want to safeguard what we have achieved so far, then we need to stick together." Though chinks are certainly developing.

Even last weekend, Swiss voters suddenly and surprisingly turned hard right in electing a new national parliament[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/switzerland-projected-shift-right-national-elections-2023-10-22/], largely over fears that their country could be overwhelmed by immigrants. Not members of the EU, the Swiss will have little say in how Europe continues to sanction Russia or support Ukraine. But on October 1, voters in Slovakia, which is a member of both the EU and NATO, voted to allow[https://www.cnn.com/2023/10/01/world/slovakia-election-pro-russia-robert-fico-win-intl-hnk/index.html] far-right populist Robert Fico to form a government that is expected to assume a position alongside neighboring Hungary as the core of a pro-Putin bloc[https://www.cnn.com/videos/world/2023/09/29/exp-slovakia-elections-preview-scott-mclean-live-092908aseg2--cnni-world.cnn] in the heart of Europe.

Poland last week narrowly avoided becoming a third major European nation to these two, giving a narrow parliamentary plurality[https://www.cnn.com/2023/10/17/europe/poland-election-final-results-intl/index.html] to the coalition led by former EU Council President Donald Tusk.

"Now, you know this is a democratic continent," Rinkevics reminded me. "I know how this works. There are a lot of movements and a lot of drama sometimes, but at the end of the day, we have been able to take decisions both in NATO and the EU. So, I do understand sensitivities but I would not exaggerate them."

Rinkevics believes that in the end it is domestic issues rather than foreign policy or even military threats from abroad that truly motivate voters. "I think the major issues, frankly, are about social security, health care, some economic policies, about migration issues. Those messages resonate in a more powerful way than how we are going to deal with Russia." But he conceded in Latvia, "it's a bit different because of our proximity and our history."

Rinkevics also believes he can even work with former US President Donald Trump if he is reelected. "We are ready of course to work with whoever the American people elect. I'm not paid for being worried. I am paid for trying to do good policy for my country, under whatever circumstances," he said.

And following 12 years as foreign minister, the second longest tenure in Europe, he observed, behind only his counterpart in Luxembourg, "things are getting more complicated."

"When I became foreign minister, in October 2011, the president of Russia was Dmitry Medvedev, who seemed to be quite liberal. But just a couple of months afterwards, all those undemocratic things started: Demonstrations, Putin being elected for a third term as president. And of course, then came the Crimea [takeover]. Then I understood all that optimism was over."

He said that since then, Latvia has been trying to warn the region and its allies about the threat that Russia poses.

"We have been right, we are still right. And sometimes even people here don't get it. [So, it's not surprising that] people in France or Britain or Germany or the United States don't understand what is happening, what the implications could be. That's a bit, sometimes, scary."

Opinion by David A. Andelman

Cable News Network LP.

文件 CNNWR00020231028ejas008et


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11181
Justina Vaišvilaitė
5891 字
2023 年 11 月 7 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11181 (95587) TUESDAY AFTERNOON, NOVEMBER 7

 

NAUSĖDA SAYS FUNDING FOR ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE NOT ENOUGH EVEN TO MAINTAIN ITS STATE

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda continues to criticise the amount of funding earmarked for upgrading roads in the 2024 state budget as insufficient.

The state of roads will only deteriorate in the absence of larger funds to maintain and repair them, according to the president.  

"The [poor] state of our roads is a major and structural problem for all of us. It certainly affects the implementation of education and health reforms. There are no miracles: you can create whatever models you want, but if financial resources are not enough, the state of roads in Lithuania will only get worse. And we will be looking with envy at neighbouring Latvia and Poland,” Nausėda told reporters in Pakruojis on Tuesday.

"The sums that are envisaged and planned are basically even not enough to maintain their state, let alone improve them,” the president said.

The Government’s draft budget for 2024 foresees state revenues of EUR 17.01 billion next year and expenditure of EUR 20.5 billion. The budget revenue is expected to grow by EUR 1.46 billion (9.4%) and expenditure by nearly EUR 1.5 billion (7.9%) from a year before.

Next year’s budget plans EUR 715.3 million for the maintenance and repair of Lithuanian roads.

At the end of October, the Seimas Committee on Economic Affairs approved a proposal to allocate an additional EUR 217 million to the Road Maintenance and Development Programme in the 2024 budget. MPs are set to take the final decision on the proposal.

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis has said that fixing all roads and bridges in Lithuania would cost around EUR 10 billion.

 

PRESIDENT’S ADVISER SUPPORTS IDEA THAT RESERVISTS WOULD BE ALLOWED TO OWN AUTOMATIC RIFLES

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – President’s chief national security adviser Kęstutis Budrys supports the proposal that conscripts would be allowed to own automatic rifles. The bill has been tabled by Conservative MPs Paulius Saudargas and Laurynas Kasčiūnas.

"We, as a country, have already stated that this should be done by foreseeing the right to own weapons by, for instance, volunteer soldiers or members of the Riflemen’s Union. We are inevitably moving towards this,” Budrys said in an interview to the radio station Žinių radijas on Tuesday.

According to him, conscripts who have been trained to handle weapons and are in the active reserve would have the right to own automatic rifles.

As reported, MPs Saudargas and Kasčiūnas have registered amendments to the Law on Control of Weapons and Ammunition that would enable reservists to obtain some category A weapons, such as automatic rifles. A permit would be valid for 2 years and could be extended every 5 years.

 

DEMOCRATS FOR LITHUANIA INCLUDES FORMER PM AMONG POTENTIAL PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – It has transpired that MP Algirdas Butkevičius is one of potential presidential candidates of the party Democrats For Lithuania. He served as Lithuania’s prime minister in 2012-2016. The nomination will be decided by the end of the week.

Branches of Democrats For Lithuania have also put up the candidatures of the party’s leader MP Saulius Skvernelis, former prime minister in 2016-2020, as well as MPs Linas Kukuraitis and Vytautas Bakas, and former assistant secretary general for executive management at NATO Giedrimas Jeglinskas.

Head of the party’s presidential election campaign, MP Lukas Savickas, said the majority of the branches proposed Skvernelis as the presidential nominee, whereas Jeglinskas was the second most nominated candidate.

Democrats For Lithuania will decide on 11 November who becomes its presidential nominee for 2024 elections.

Three parties have already selected their runners. The Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD) named incumbent Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė, the Farmers and Greens Union (LVŽS) chose MP Aurelijus Veryga, while the Lithuanian Regions’ Party endorsed Mantas Varaška, mayor of Kazlų Rūda.

There are also three independent candidates: doctor Eduardas Vaitkus, former chief of defence Valdas Tutkus and anti-government protest organiser Antanas Kandrotas.

 

FORMIN CALLS TO CONTINUE TALKS WITH EU ON TOUGHER SANCTIONS ON RUSSIA AND BELARUS

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis believes that Lithuania should continue engaging with the European Union striving for tougher sanctions against Russia and Belarus. Lithuanian Railways (LTG) addressed law enforcement on Tuesday after it transpired that luxurious cars were being exported to Russia circumventing international sanctions.

"Lithuania has decent leverage in discussions with the EU: because of our logistics features, good railways and roads, we are the main passage of goods to the East. We take advantage of this striving for stricter sanctions and restrictions. When we take certain unilateral action, such as restriction of dual-purpose goods, this is treated seriously abroad, issues raised by Lithuania are taken seriously. We must continue negotiating and we have quite good arguments,” Landsbergis told reporters Tuesday.

Lithuanian Railways (LTG) has addressed law enforcement over potential violation of international sanctions as it transpired that luxurious cars used to be exported through Lithuania to third countries by rail.

LTG carried out an internal investigation, examined information about the export of 447 luxurious cars by 9 clients and determined that 75 vehicles were registered in Russia, whereas 55 cars entered Russia through other countries. Information about the country of registration of 279 vehicles could not be determined. Vehicles that were exported included brands like Mercedes, Porsche and Cadillac.

It was discovered that four companies participated in the sanction evasion scheme. LTG Cargo transferred information about the companies and their cargo to the Prosecutor General’s Office of Lithuania.

 

SUPREME COURT REJECTS MP GRAŽULIS’ APPEAL IN ABUSE OF OFFICE CASE

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – On Tuesday, Lithuania’s Supreme Court rejected MP Petras Gražulis’ appeal who has been convicted of abuse of office.

The politician sought to have the ruling of the Court of Appeal reversed. The latter upheld the judgement of the court of first instance, which convicted Gražulis of abuse of office and imposed a fine of EUR 15,000.

In March 2022, Vilnius Regional Court ruled that Gražulis abused office by acting in the interests of the company UAB Judex, used the company’s funds and unlawfully interfered in activities of public servants in Lithuania and Russia pressuring them to perform illegal actions. The court stated that the politician discredited the Seimas, the trustworthiness of its members and caused substantial non-pecuniary damage for the state.

Gražulis then filed an appeal with the Court of Appeal, which upheld the earlier judgement.

Parliament considered whether to impeach the MP, but decided to wait for the Supreme Court’s ruling.

He is also facing another impeachment procedure for voting instead of another MP during a parliamentary sitting. However, in that instance parliament is waiting for the Constitutional Court to weigh in on the case.

 

STT HEAD LINAS PERNAVAS WAS ELECTED AS NEW PRESIDENT OF EPAC/EACN

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – Last week, the 22nd Annual Conference and General Assembly of the European Partners Against Corruption (EPAC) and the European Union Anti-Corruption Contact Network (EACN) took place in Dublin, Ireland. Among other decisions, the General Assembly elected a new president, two vice-presidents and two deputy vice-presidents. Mr Linas Pernavas, director of the Special Investigation Service of Lithuania (STT), was elected as the president of EPAC/EACN for a term of two years.

"It is an honour and a great responsibility to take on this duty and I will do everything to represent EPAC/EACN in its best interests. I believe that the EPAC/EACN network must continue to grow and become an open, constantly modernising network that seeks the best solutions and advice for its members,” said Pernavas, the new president of EPAC/EACN.

He also outlined these main priorities for future EPAC/EACN work – strengthening cooperation and best practice sharing among European anti-corruption and police oversight authorities, continuing to serve as a platform for capacity building of POBs and ACAs and strengthening EPAC/EACN’s influence as the biggest network in European anti-corruption policy-making. It is also important to promote providing conditions for effective information exchange between practitioners across national borders, and ensuring access to information and promoting the use of latest technology solutions for data analysis and evidence-based policymaking.

Around 200 participants from more than 100 institutions and more than 30 different countries took part in the event. Speakers from the European Commission, the European Public Prosecutor’s Office, European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (EUROPOL), European Anti-Fraud’s Office (OLAF) and national anti-corruption and police oversight institutions provided their insights and experience on relevant topics. This year’s Conference discussed the following themes: Whistleblowing, Gender-Based Violence perpetrated by state actors, Protecting the financial interests of the EU and Emerging Challenges in Corruption Investigations and Police Oversight. Among other speakers, Ms Margarita Dobrynina, head of the Strategic Analysis Division of the STT, presented STT experience in applying big data analytics in corruption investigations. In the development of big data analytics in law enforcement institutions, enabling legal regulation, digitisation and maturity of state information resources, inter-institutional cooperation, strengthening of analytical IT infrastructure and human resources become an integral basis for the effectiveness of this activity. Mr Darius Mickevičius, head of the International Cooperation Division of the STT and Head of EPAC/EACN Secretariat, presented EPAC/EACN activity report for 2022-2023.

 

PART OF EXPORT GOODS END UP IN RUSSIA DUE TO SOFTER SANCTIONS ON BELARUS – LITHUANIAN CUSTOMS

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – Lithuanian Customs Director General Darius Žvironas says the European Union (EU) should align sanctions on Russia and Belarus to prevent situations when luxury cars exported from Europe to third countries are ending up in Russia as found by the customs authority.

"As they [sanctions] are different, we have a case when some of those goods that are permitted to enter Belarus end up in Russia,” Žvironas told a press conference on Tuesday.

The sanctions are circumvented quite often in further stages, not the initial one, he added.

The customs authority carried out a joint investigation with LTG Cargo, a freight transport company of the Lithuanian Railways group, between June and August this year. It found that cars exported from Europe via Lithuania to Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Georgia and Turkmenistan are being registered in Russia later.

"These goods do reach that country, they reach their destination. They actually arrive, as a rule, in Belarus or in another country where they were declared. (&) Customs duties are paid, other customs formalities are carried out. Only after that, directly or indirectly, they are marketed in the Russian Federation,” the official said.

According to the customs chief, the statistical value of the luxury cars exported is around EUR 43 million. They were mostly transported by land.

The investigation focussed on cars more expensive than EUR 50,000.

Žvironas specified that two thirds of cars brought to Russia were initially exported precisely to Belarus.

 

INDUSTRIAL PRODUCER PRICES IN LITHUANIA DOWN BY 7.5% IN SEPTEMBER 2023 Y-O-Y – EUROSTAT

 

Luxembourg, November 7 (ELTA) – In September 2023, industrial producer prices rose by 0.5% in the euro area and by 0.6% in the EU, compared with August 2023, according to estimates from Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union.

In September 2023, compared with September 2022, industrial producer prices decreased by 12.4% in the euro area and by 11.2% in the EU.

Industrial producer prices in the euro area in September 2023, compared with August 2023, increased by 2.2% in the energy sector, while prices remained stable for capital goods and for durable consumer goods, and prices decreased by 0.2% for both intermediate goods and non-durable consumer goods. Prices in total industry excluding energy decreased by 0.1%.

In the EU, industrial producer prices increased by 2.1% in the energy sector and by 0.1% for capital goods, while prices remained stable for durable consumer goods, and prices decreased by 0.1% for intermediate goods and by 0.2% for non-durable consumer goods. Prices in total industry excluding energy decreased by 0.1%.

The biggest monthly increases in industrial producer prices were observed in Luxembourg (+28.5%), Romania (+2.6%) and Bulgaria (+2.1%), while the largest decreases were recorded in Finland (-0.9%), Cyprus and Poland (both -0.3%) and Germany (-0.2%).

In September 2023, compared with August 2023, industrial producer prices in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia increased by 1.5%.

Industrial producer prices in the euro area in September 2023, compared with September 2022, decreased by 31.3% in the energy sector and by 4.8% for intermediate goods, while prices increased by 3.9% for capital goods, by 4.3% for durable consumer goods and by 5.5% for non-durable consumer goods. Prices in total industry excluding energy increased by 0.5%.

In the EU, industrial producer prices decreased by 28.5% in the energy sector and by 4.7% for intermediate goods, while prices increased by 3.7% for durable consumer goods, by 3.8% for capital goods and by 5.4% for non-durable consumer goods. Prices in total industry excluding energy increased by 0.4%.

The largest annual decreases in industrial producer prices were recorded in Ireland (-38.9%), Bulgaria (-32.0%) and Italy (-18.3%). The highest annual increases were recorded in Luxembourg (+23.8%), Hungary (+7.1%) and Slovenia (+3.1%).

In September 2023, compared with September 2022, industrial producer prices in Lithuania decreased by 7.5%, in Latvia by 13.3% and in Estonia by 5.9%.

 

ELECTRICITY PRICES IN BALTIC COUNTRIES DOWN BY 55% LAST WEEK

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – On 30 October-5 November, compared with the previous week, wholesale electricity prices in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia dropped by 55% to EUR 58.26/MWh.

According to independent electricity supplier Elektrum Lietuva, the average price of electricity on the Nord Pool power market decreased by 29% to EUR 42.87/MWh last week. In the Nord Pool region, 8,628 GWh of electricity was consumed, while 8,925 GWh of electricity was generated at the end of October and in early November.

In the Baltic States, electricity prices were affected by a 136% increase in electricity generation by windfarms and by 17% greater electricity flow from neighbouring countries.

In the Baltic States, aggregate electricity consumption decreased by 5% to 521 GWh. Lithuania consumed by 11 less electricity or 219 GWh, Latvia by 1% less or 131 GWh and Estonia by 1% less or 171 GWh.

Electricity generation in the Baltic countries decreased by 11% to 385 GWh on aggregate. Lithuania generated by 16% more electricity or 145 GWh, Latvia generated by 36% less electricity or 68 GWh, while Estonia generated by 18% less electricity or 72 GWh.

Last week, the Baltic States generated 55% of electricity needed for consumption. Electricity generation in Lithuania satisfied 66% of the country’s consumption demand, compared with 52% in Latvia and 42% in Estonia.

 

LITGRID POSTS EUR 43.3MN NET PROFIT IN JAN-SEP

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – Lithuanian electricity transmission system operator Litgrid in the third quarter of 2023 completed two strategic electricity transmission line reconstruction projects that increased the reliability of the grid, and delivered synchronous condensers, which are necessary for synchronisation with Continental Europe, to Telšiai and Alytus substations. In the first 9 months of this year, network reliability indicators were better than last year. The company’s revenue was down compared to the same period last year, while profits were higher, Litgrid has announced.

"In the third quarter, we continued to operate consistently and actively in the field of strategic projects ensuring Lithuania’s energy independence. We have completed the reconstruction of the electricity transmission lines of Lietuvos elektrinė–Alytus and Jurbarkas–Bitėnai and have started construction work on Mūša substation and Vilnius–Neris line. We brought the components of the first two synchronous condensers to Lithuania and started their installation in Alytus and Telšiai. Together with the transmission system operators in Latvia and Estonia, we agreed on specific actions and dates to disconnect from the Russian system and connect to the Continental European Synchronous Area. For the first time, the operators of the three countries jointly assumed clear obligations to perform synchronisation at the agreed time in February 2025”, says Rokas Masiulis, CEO of Litgrid.

In September, another aid package from Litgrid reached Ukraine, which consists of an autotransformer and other power grid equipment. The total market value of the equipment is about EUR 3.6 million.

Reliability of supply

Compared to the previous year, the amount of transmitted energy decreased by 10.7 percent: in January-September of 2023, the electricity transmitted for the country’s needs amounted to 6,789 TWh, at the same time in 2022 the amount was 7.603 TWh.

This year, Litgrid achieved better network reliability indicators. In January-September of 2023, AIT (Average Interruption Time) indicator reached 0.648 min. (January-September 2022 – 1.264 min), and the ENS (Energy Not Supplied) indicator was 17.569 MWh (January-September 2022 – 27.251 MWh). The National Energy Regulatory Council has established that AIT must not exceed 0.934 min and ENS – 27.251 MWh throughout the year.

The overall availability of interconnectors with Sweden (NordBalt) and Poland (LitPol Link) in January-September was 92.27 and 98.32 percent, respectively.

Financial results

In the first 9 months of 2023, Litgrid revenue reached EUR 274.9 million. Compared to the same period last year, it was down by 4.6 percent. Revenue from electricity transmission increased 2.8 times to EUR 152.5 million, when EUR 106.7 million of congestion revenues were used to reduce the transmission tariff. The increase in transmission revenue was caused by temporary regulatory deviations (when approving the 2023 price cap for transmission service, the recoverable costs of the regulated activity included significantly higher electricity costs for technological losses in the transmission network due to higher electricity prices), which will be evaluated when determining the tariff for the subsequent years.

Revenue from ancillary services decreased by 74.2 percent to EUR 19.9 million, the main reason for this is that the regulator set a 59 percent lower cost of ancillary services. Unbalance and balance electricity revenue decreased by 37.6 percent to EUR 79 million.

In January-September of 2023, Litgrid earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) was EUR 62.2 million. Adjusted EBITDA (after making adjustments due to temporary regulatory deviations from the amounts approved by the regulator) amounted to EUR 29.6 million, in comparison adjusted EBITDA in the 9 months of 2022 was EUR 26.7 million. Adjusted EBITDA was mainly driven by higher non-regulated operating income.

Net profit in January-September of 2023 amounted to EUR 43.3 million, when in the same period of 2022 a EUR 43.5 million net loss was incurred. The increase in net profit was mainly due to higher electricity transmission revenues and lower electricity prices, which reduced the cost of compensation for technological losses in the transmission network. The negative impact was caused by a larger difference between ancillary service income and costs. Adjusted net profit for the first 9 months of 2023 was EUR 15.6 million, when in the same period of 2022 adjusted net profit amounted to EUR 8.9 million.

In the first 9 months of 2023, investments amounted to EUR 93.2 million, of which 64 percent was allocated to the implementation of strategic and nationally important electricity projects, and 36 percent was allocated to the reconstruction and development of the transmission network and operational support.

Congestion management revenue in the first 9 months was EUR 77.1 million, a 64 percent decrease compared to the same period last year. The congestion management revenue received is not accounted for as revenue and does not directly contribute to operating result of Litgrid, as its use is regulated by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 2019/943 and the methodology approved by the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators of the European Union (ACER). Congestion management revenues are mainly used to part-finance the company’s investments to increase the capacity of interconnectors.

 

TELTONIKA BURIES SYMBOLIC TIME CAPSULE IN ITS PCB PLANT

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – Teltonika, Lithuania’s group of high-tech companies, says it is moving forward with the construction work on the site of its printed circuit board (PCB) factory in Vilnius rapidly.

With the installation of reinforced concrete structures, the outline of the future plant has become clear, and on Tuesday, a symbolic time capsule with a letter to future generations was buried in the foundations of the building, the group said in a press release.

The 33,000 square metre factory will have the highest level of automation currently available and will employ around 250 highly skilled workers in the factory and administrative areas.

The plant is expected to have its roof on later this year, followed by interior fitting-out work. The plant is scheduled to start operations in early 2025.

"This investment will allow us to shorten production lead times, expand intellectual property protection for the technologies we develop, reduce supply chain risks and become independent from third-party political decisions,” says Arvydas Paukštys, founder and president of Teltonika company group.

A printed circuit board is the base of modern electronic devices on which various components, including semiconductor chips, are placed. Nowadays, this element is hardly replaceable in the manufacturing of more complex electronics.

Teltonika is building a printed circuit board factory as part of a major project investment agreement signed with the Ministry of Economy and Innovation. The investment in the modern plant will amount to EUR 143 million, most of which will be spent on the acquisition of special production equipment. Installation of the equipment is scheduled to start in the middle of next year.

The PCB plant is one of the projects of the Teltonika High-Tech Hill Technology Park being developed in Liepkalnis, Vilnius. Ten new industrial and administrative buildings will be built in several phases over five years, and around 6,000 people are expected to be hired.

In addition to the PCB factory, new electronic assembly and plastic injection moulding plants, a data centre, offices, laboratories and a commercial building will be built on the 50 hectares of Teltonika High-Tech Hill.

A semiconductor chip assembly, testing and manufacturing complex will be a key part of this technology park. The total investment in the Teltonika High-Tech Hill Technology Park over the next decade will be around EUR 3.7 billion.

 

NEARLY 1,200 NEW CORONAVIRUS CASES WERE CONFIRMED ON MONDAY

 

Vilnius, November 7 (ELTA) – On 6 November, Monday, 1,190 coronavirus cases were confirmed in Lithuania. According to the State Data Agency, 371 individuals contracted the virus repeatedly.

The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the country has reached 1,342,218 since the outbreak of the pandemic. There are currently 7,852 active cases

The death toll due to COVID-19 in Lithuania stands at 9,742. Two patients died on Monday. One was from the age group of 60-69 years and the other was from the age group of 80-89 years.

On 6 November, 33 people were hospitalised due to COVID-19 and now 142 patients are being treated in hospitals. Nine patients are in intensive care.

The average number of new daily cases in the last 7 days is 405. The incidence rate per 100,000 residents in the last 14 days is 207.2.

Estonian PM met with European Commission’s executive vice-president

Tallinn, November 7 (ELTA) – On Monday, at her meeting with Executive Vice-President of the European Commission Valdis Dombrovskis and the subsequent panel discussion at the Estonia’s annual event of the recovery and resilience facility, Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas stressed that in order to increase its competitiveness, the European Union must focus on developing a strong and fair single market and be flexible in the implementation of EU investments. The importance of long-term support for Ukraine was also discussed at the meeting, stated the Office of the Government.

"In order to be competitive, the European Union must not continue the state aid race, but must focus on its strengths. The most important among them is the single market working on equal conditions and with nearly 500 million consumers, allowing European businesses to grow strongly,” said Kaja Kallas.

The European Commission is disbursing EUR 238.5 million in performance-based funding for recovery and resilience for Estonia. Although Estonia was the first to renew its recovery plan and launch the investment measure for the just transition plan, Kaja Kallas said that Estonia is concerned about the tight deadlines for the funds.

"We have launched ambitious reforms and investments, but we have less than three years to implement them. In fast-changing circumstances, performance-based EU investments should allow for more flexible support,” she said.

In her meeting with Dombrovskis, Kallas expressed hope that the assessment of the European Commission of Ukraine’s implementation of the seven-step reform plan proposed by the Commission, expected next Wednesday, will be positive and that accession negotiations with Kyiv will be opened before the end of the year. "Ukraine has shown determination and political will and has made incredible progress on reforms in the face of extremely difficult war conditions, and we are working to open accession negotiations this year,” said Kallas.

Kallas stressed that she is looking forward to the European Commission’s proposal for a European-wide solution for the use of frozen Russian assets for the reconstruction of Ukraine, ahead of the Council in December. "We also need to decide on long-term support for Ukraine before the end of the year,” Kallas added.

The prime minister and the vice-president also discussed foreign trade matters, including trade relations with the US, and Kaja Kallas gave an overview of the investigation into the damage to the Balticconnector gas pipeline.

 

CONSUMER PRICES IN ESTONIA FELL IN OCTOBER BECAUSE OF SEASONAL FACTORS

 

Tallinn, November 7 (ELTA) – Data from Statistics Estonia show the price level in Estonia in October was 0.4% lower than in September. The overall level of prices in Estonia has been essentially unchanged for the past half year. Inflation over the year still rose to 4.9% in October because of the compensation for energy prices that was introduced last October, stated the Bank of Estonia (Eesti Pank).

Seasonal factors in the autumn months are the usual falls in the prices of food and of tourism services. Lower prices for fruit and vegetables and for dairy products made the consumer food basket 1.1% cheaper than it was in September. Further falls in consumer prices for food may be contained because the prices of some food commodities on global markets have already started to recover by now.

Falling prices for energy, especially electricity and gas, have been one of the main drivers of the reduction in inflation this year. The market price of electricity, which exceeded 174 euros per megawatt-hour last year, was 87 euros in October. The price of natural gas has risen since the summer though and so the price of heating fuelled by gas will probably increase in the coming months.

Eesti Pank estimates that inflation will be 4-5% in the final months of this year and that it will average 9.4% for the whole of 2023. The rise in price that will be sparked by tax changes from the new year may start to be reflected in prices in shops in the months ahead unless the economic downturn in Estonia pushes merchants to change their pricing policies. Eesti Pank forecasts that inflation will come down next year to 3.4%.

 

NUMBER OF DIRECT PASSENGERS AT RIGA AIRPORT HAS RETURNED TO PRE-PANDEMIC LEVEL

 

Riga, November 7 (ELTA) – Operational data on the airport performance show that Riga Airport handled 625 thousand passengers this October, whereas the number of direct passengers exceeded the pre-pandemic level for the first time, Riga Airport announced.

The number of direct passengers in October reached almost 503 thousand, exceeding the result of October 2019 by three percentage points. Also on an annual basis, it has almost returned to the level of the corresponding period of the pre-pandemic period.

Since the beginning of the year, 5.7 million passengers have used Riga Airport for their trips, exceeding the result of the entire previous year:​ in January–December 2022, a total of 5.38 million passengers were handled.

"The number of direct destinations from Riga Airport is the largest in the Baltic States, and many of them are only offered from Riga. We also felt this well in October, when the number of passengers at our Airport increased during the school holidays in Latvia and in our two neighbouring countries Estonia and Lithuania. Flight occupancy is also increasing during this period: it again approached the 80 % mark in the last week of October. The favourite routes are still the warm holiday destinations by the Mediterranean Sea, as well as British and Irish airports,” says Laila Odiņa, chairperson of the Board of Riga Airport.

The number of transfer passengers still accounts for around 20% of the total number of passengers – in October, 122.5 thousand passengers used Riga Airport as their transfer airport.

In October, 5,659 passenger, cargo and other flights were handled, which is 11% more than a year before.

 

NEW BERTH IS BEING BUILT IN PORT OF RIGA TO INCREASE MILITARY MOBILITY

 

Riga, November 7 (ELTA) – Construction works are underway in Kundziņsala at the Baltic Container Terminal (BCT), the largest container terminal of the Port of Riga, Latvia. The underwater works aimed at the construction of a new berth section have been completed. At the end of the project, the process of loading and unloading cargo at the terminal will be accelerated, increasing the terminal’s operational efficiency and commercial competitiveness, said the Port of Riga.

Considering that the terminal accommodates military vessels, the berth capacity growth will be an investment into increasing military mobility and strengthening the common security of our country and NATO.

The project provides for the extension of the BCT berth KS – 34 by 57.3 meters, with the construction of its additional section. As a result, the overall length of the BCT berth line, combining three berths, will reach a total of 506.3 metres. Due to increased terminal capacity it will be possible to simultaneously moor and service two large vessels - container ships, ro-ro vessels (cargo ferries) or military ships, as well as moor vessels up to 340 meters in length.

"The construction of port berths is a unique and complex process that requires great responsibility, specific knowledge, experience and extensive resources. A new berth is an important event for the port, an important contribution to the development of its infrastructure and increasing the port’s competitiveness, improving our military mobility and that of allies of Latvia,” emphasised Ansis Zeltiņš, the Freeport of Riga CEO.

"The biggest challenge in the design of the berth is to provide the necessary load resistance. Ships weighing up to 79,000 tons with cargo will be moored at the new BCT berth, and it is planned to mount a 999-ton port crane on the berth. There will be a constant movement of trucks, port equipment and military transport, as well as the movement of containers, which can reach a maximum weight of up to 30 tons,” commented Andris Razgalis, the author of the project from the engineering company Kurbada tilti.

"Container ships, when compared to other types of vessels, have a much larger surface area above the water exposed to the wind. That is why the largest bollards (ship’s mooring posts) with a load-bearing capacity of 150 tons are to be built at the new berth of the port of Riga . A solution to install larger fenders between the ship and the berth without reducing the ability of the cranes with the aim of reaching the farthest loads will be implemented. The fenders will be partially embedded into the berth’s superstructure,” said the project author addressing the project’s challenges.

For the construction of the new berth section of the BCT, 280 sheet piles with a length of 20.5m have been used. They were driven into the riverbed 19.5 m below the water level by special technology, forming a continuous sheet pile wall. In addition, 24 pipe piles have been driven into the riverbed – these 21m long pipes with a diameter of 1.42 m will support the rail-mounted gantry crane located at the berth. The outer sheet pile wall is additionally attached to the shore with about 31m long horizontal anchor rods. The total length of the anchor rods reaches 934 meters. During the riverbed cleaning the inappropriate soil - silt and fine sand in the amount of 7800m³ was dredged from the berth area.

"One can say that we have completed the most challenging and difficult part of the berth construction process – we have built the basic structure of the berth. Most of the work that has been completed is underwater and will not be visible once the berth superstructure is finished. At this current stage, the most challenging aspect is performing work on the water, which requires continuous adaptation to changing and unpredictable conditions such as wind, waves, water level. Furthermore, when commencing work, predicting the riverbed’s content is impossible. For instance, during sheet pile driving, we encountered an unexpected obstacle submerged in the riverbed. Unlike land-based projects, we could not simply excavate and inspect it. Instead, we had to engage divers and specialized equipment to extract the obstacle”, said Dmitrijs Bulkins, construction manager of the JSC BMGS.

The new berth section of the BCT is being built within the framework of a tripartite agreement concluded between the Freeport of Riga Authority, the European Climate, Infrastructure and Environment Agency (CINEA) and SIA Baltic Container Terminal (BCT). The agreement on increasing the dual use capacity of the Port of Riga by improving the port infrastructure in Kundziņsala was concluded in the spring of this year and provides for strengthening the commercial competitiveness of the Port of Riga, as well as improving the military mobility of Latvia and its allies.

Currently, construction works related to other port infrastructure projects, which are provided for within the framework of this agreement, are underway in Kundziņsala The reconstruction of the car and railway bridge in the southern part of Kundziņsala has been completed, while the Freeport of Riga Authority is currently carrying out reconstruction of the railway level crossing on Uriekstes Street near the port control post, reconstruction of the motorway in Kundziņsala from the bridge to the container terminal BCT, as well as construction of a new connecting road from the container terminal to the transport parking lot. All activities within the framework of the project are planned to be completed in full by the end of 2024.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020231107ejb7001p5


Membership at UN Security Council would give Latvia stronger voice in international politics - ambassador
Inese Trenča
1243 字
2023 年 11 月 13 日 07:27 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
Riga, Nov 13 (LETA) - Latvia's participation in the UN Security Council would give an opportunity to strengthen the voice of Europe, including the Baltic states, in international politics, Ambassador Andrejs Pildegovics, Special Envoy of the Latvian Secretariat of the UN Security Council, told LETA.

The diplomat reminded that in 2011 the government decided on Latvia's candidacy for the UN Security Council elections in 2025. On November 9 this year, the election campaign was officially launched in New York, US, but in reality it has been going on for several years.

According to the ambassador, this is a fresh start to the campaign, which is expected to conclude in the June 2025 elections. Latvia will participate in the elections for the first time. Latvia's rival in the Eastern European group is Montenegro. The ambassador stressed that these elections would be held in a competitive environment.

"This is one of Latvia's foreign policy priorities for the coming years. The UN Security Council is one of the central stages of diplomacy, where relatively small countries can serve on the Council for two years. Latvia wants to be elected in legitimate, democratic elections. It will be secret, but it is an election, unlike the Council's five permanent members, who appointed themselves to this status after the end of World War II," the ambassador said.

He stressed that the current international developments only reinforce the importance of Latvia's membership. It is a platform where Latvia can defend the UN Charter and the territorial integrity of the UN Member States. The block of issues relating to Russia's aggression against Ukraine is important for Latvia. Although this issue is regularly on the agenda of the UN Security Council, Latvia intends to stand firm for Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity.

Also, according to the ambassador, the UN Security Council is one of the main institutions deciding on the sanction regimes. It is important for Latvia that UN Security Council sanctions, for example against North Korea, Iran or the Taliban regime, are as effective as possible.

Pildegovics explained that Latvia's priorities are also new generation threats, such as those related to cyber security, artificial intelligence capabilities and risks. New generation threats are also increasingly on the agenda of the UN Security Council. The globally adopted concept of "Women, Peace and Security" has also been a long-standing priority for Latvia. These are issues that include sexual violence in conflicts such as in Ukraine.

"I can compare election to the UN Security Council to the biggest diplomatic microphone. For a small country, it provides an opportunity to be on the world's radar. It is also an opportunity to be in the most direct contact with all 193 UN Member States. I have to say that Latvia has come a long way since its UN membership. UN membership was the first step in our return to the international scene," said the ambassador.

He pointed out that without UN membership Latvia would not have had the opportunity to join the European Union, NATO or other international organizations. According to the ambassador, the UN once helped Latvia to get rid of Soviet Russian troops. In the 1990s, the UN Development Agency helped modernize the country's economy.

"This is a moment when Latvia is, to a certain extent, involved in the modernization of the UN. Although we are moving towards the goal of being represented in the Council, this does not mean that we are satisfied with everything that is happening in the UN. Latvia belongs to the "reformers' club" - the UN Group of States for Accountability, Coherence and Transparency. We regularly come up with proposals to make the work of the UN Security Council more effective, more open, more capable, so that the Council does not depend only on the five permanent veto-wielding countries," said Pildegovics.

According to the ambassador, while everything is far from perfect and the UN can be criticized for many things, it is a unique platform where small countries can assert themselves, declare their interests and participate in the global debate on issues affecting peace and security.

Pildegovics explained that Latvia needs two-thirds of the votes to be elected to the UN Security Council, i.e. 129 votes out of 193. This is a question of the countries present at the elections and the countries with voting rights at the time of the elections. Sometimes, a country's voting rights may be suspended for various reasons, such as unpaid national contributions.

The ambassador considers that the preparations and preparations for the elections are progressing well and successfully. Latvia is doing so in a focused and planned manner. Latvia has shown through practical work that it is not only a consumer of common security. Latvia participates in the work of the UN.

He pointed out that Latvia has served on the UN Peacebuilding Commission, the Economic and Social Council. Latvian experts have served for three years on the UN Commission on the Status of Women. Over the past years, Latvian representatives have been elected to the UN Commission on International Law and the International Climate Council. Latvia is also represented on several UN bodies. Latvian peacekeepers - members of the armed forces - participate in the UN mission in Lebanon and the UN mission in Jerusalem. In the ambassador's view, Latvia's contribution to the UN is recognized, appreciated and visible.

Asked where Latvia could gain support and where it would still need to work before the elections, Pildegovics said that Latvia's history of cooperation with the African continent is relatively recent. Moreover, Latvia has only one representation on the African continent and it is located in Cairo, Egypt. However, over the past few years, there has been a positive trend - more and more Latvian experts, business people and researchers are turning their attention to the continent. Also, according to the ambassador, Latvia has no diplomatic missions in Latin America. Latvia is gradually trying to fill this niche.

Pildegovics stressed that Latvia is preparing not only for the campaign, which is an important stage, but also for its work in the UN Security Council. Latvia intends to build on the work of its Baltic colleagues and is studying the experience of Scandinavia and other like-minded countries. The Ambassador stressed that, if elected, Latvia also intends to take into account the interests of relatively small countries, as well as the interests of the countries that will have voted for Latvia.

Asked whether Latvia and Montenegro had similar starting positions, the Ambassador pointed out that Latvia had a longer history in the UN, having become a member on September 17, 1991, a few months before the collapse of the Soviet Union. According to Pildegovics, Latvia has accumulated experience in 33 years - Latvia has presided over several international agreements, such as the Arms Trade Treaty. Latvia also has experience of the presidencies of the European Union (EU) and the Council of Europe.

"We treat our competitor, Montenegro, with great respect. We have very good bilateral relations. Montenegro has a number of important priorities. Montenegro was negotiating its accession to the EU. It is also dealing with regional issues in the Balkans. We are ready for the fight and we hope that the majority of UN Member States will appreciate Latvia's readiness and maturity," said the ambassador.

44373436344341302D444433342D3443

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020231113ejbd0008d


Ukraine's victory is existential issue for the Baltics – Landsbergis in Tallinn
LETA
309 字
2023 年 11 月 24 日 12:40 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
VILNIUS, Nov 24 (LETA--BNS) - Ukraine's victory is an existential issue not only for the Baltic states but also for the West, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said at the 29th Baltic Council meeting in Tallinn on Friday.

"In 2024, we will have to continue devoting a lot of time and effort to managing crises and preventing their consequences and aftermath. But even worse scenarios are possible, which could directly affect the security of the Baltic states. Today, they no longer seem unrealistic," Lithuania's top diplomat said. "At the moment, the rules-based order is being defended in Ukraine. Therefore, Ukraine's victory is an existential issue not only for the Baltic states but also for the West, and our support for Ukraine's fight is a top priority in the short term."

The signs of war fatigue are becoming more visible in the West's posture, he added.

"However, war fatigue is a phenomenon characteristic of societies living in peace. If war fatigue were to overwhelm Ukraine, it would cease to exist. We have to fight this as the West has the structural power to give Ukraine the support it needs to win," Landsbergis said.

The presence of US and NATO forces in the Baltic sates is a key element of the Baltic region's security and defense, he said.

"We must work towards a permanent US military presence in the Baltic region. But alliances must be mutually beneficial. Therefore, we must be where the US has its eyes on. We need to strengthen cooperation with like-minded partners in the India-Pacific region," Lithuania's top diplomat said.

He also stressed the need to continue putting pressure on Russia through sanctions and to remain active shapers of the EU sanction policy.

36394241353142462D433241382D3446

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020231124ejbo001xh


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Sanctions should affect grain from occupied territories - President of Latvia, Lithuanian PM
280 字
2023 年 11 月 25 日
Political News
INFPO
英文
© 1992-2023, Interfax-Ukraine, All rights reserved
KYIV. Nov 25 (Interfax-Ukraine) – Grain and other products from Russia-occupied Ukrainian territories should be subject to sanctions, Latvian President Edgars Rinkevics said at a press conference in Kyiv on Saturday.

“Food and medical products are not included in the sanction package. But I think that issues of grain or other food products originating from the occupied territories of Ukraine should still be taken into account in the sanction mechanism,” he said.

Rinkevics recalled that it is equally important to coordinate the implementation of the 11 sanction packages adopted by the EU, checking the origin of certain goods and coordinating these actions with the sanctions of other countries. In his opinion, it is necessary to continue working towards verifying the origin of products.

Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte added that Russian propaganda is trying to prevent the introduction of sanctions on agricultural products from the occupied territories under the guise of the need to supply countries in need of food.

She noted that the problem of food supply has indeed grown, but because of the war unleashed by Russia. At the same time, the head of the Lithuanian government emphasized, it is a matter of principle that Russia does not benefit from the invasion.

“To prevent Putin from being able to benefit from what he stole ... That is why we need to strengthen the appropriate control mechanisms,” Simonyte said.

According to her, with the help of customs, border and other services, it is necessary to eliminate such gaps in compliance with sanctions, especially with the use of countries neighboring Russia and their trade in dual-use products.

Interfax-Ukraine News Agency

文件 INFPO00020231125ejbp0008e


The Presidents of Ukraine and Latvia discussed the continued delivery and production of ammunition and armaments for the Defense Forces during their meeting in Kyiv
803 字
2023 年 11 月 27 日 14:02 GMT
Ukrainian Government News
UKGOV
英文
Copyright © 2023 SeeNews. All rights reserved.
Nov 24, 2023

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy held a meeting with President of the Republic of Latvia Edgars Rinkēvičs, who is visiting our country.

The Head of State thanked the President of Latvia for visiting the village of Yahidne in Chernihiv region, where Russian occupiers held Ukrainian prisoners in inhumane conditions for almost a month.

"This is just one of the few examples of Russian terror against Ukrainians, but this example is so eloquent in its cruelty that it is absolutely clear what modern Russia has become. We must win here in Ukraine, otherwise this evil of aggression may come to the cities and villages of other nations, especially Russia's neighbors," Volodymyr Zelenskyy said during a meeting with representatives of the media following the talks with Edgars Rinkēvičs in Kyiv.

The President of Ukraine expressed confidence that our country, together with its partners, has enough strength to stop the anti-European Russian aggression. He noted that Latvia has been assisting Ukraine from the first hours of the full-scale invasion by Russia.

The Head of State informed the Latvian leader about the situation on the battlefield and Ukraine's defense needs.

"We are grateful for all the support Latvia has provided to our country. In particular, for the recent decision on the next package, which includes rounds, mortars, and other military equipment. We discussed how to make the supply and production of the necessary ammunition and weapons for our defense sustainable. I also turned to Mr. President regarding the possibility of supporting Ukraine with armored vehicles for evacuating our wounded soldiers from the battlefield," Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.

The presidents discussed the possibilities of strengthening Ukrainian air defense, particularly on the front lines and in the coastal areas of the Black Sea.

The Head of State thanked Latvia for its support of the sanction policy against Russia.

He also expressed gratitude to all of Ukraine's partners seeking fair legal solutions to ensure that the assets of the aggressor are directed towards those affected by Russian aggression. The President emphasized that the aggressor's funds should contribute to the restoration of Ukraine after the hostilities, and our country will be grateful to Latvia for the relevant support.

Volodymyr Zelenskyy highlighted the importance of cooperation between Ukraine and Latvia in the energy sector, as well as in the reconstruction efforts, including the restoration of medical facilities, schools, and the construction of bomb shelters for educational infrastructure.

Additionally, the leaders discussed the relations between the two states at the institutional level within the European Union.

"Latvia has taken a principled stance in favor of Ukraine's full-fledged EU membership. I informed about the implementation of the recommendations of the European Commission by Ukraine, which was a prerequisite for opening the negotiations," the President said.

The Head of State thanked Latvia and personally Edgars Rinkēvičs for their readiness to maintain an energetic approach to EU cooperation with Ukraine.

During the meeting, the presidents also discussed efforts to implement the Peace Formula points.

Edgars Rinkēvičs expressed full support for President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's Peace Formula and called it the only way to end the war in Ukraine.

He also said that Latvia is actively involved in the work to return to Ukraine children illegally deported by Russia.

In addition, the Republic of Latvia is ready for further cooperation in holding Russia accountable and establishing a corresponding tribunal.

The President of Latvia emphasized that political, economic, and military support for Ukraine from his country will remain unwavering.

"We discussed the continued military support for Ukraine. This year, Latvia has prepared 3,000 servicemen for the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and we will do the same next year. We are also finalizing the preparation of the next package of military aid, which will be sent to Ukraine," Edgars Rinkēvičs said.

He also noted Ukraine's progress in reforms and meeting the criteria for European Union membership.

"We believe that the EU should react appropriately by initiating the negotiation process," said the President of Latvia.

Edgars Rinkēvičs emphasized the importance of ensuring the export of grain from Ukrainian ports, particularly to Global South countries, which will be discussed at the upcoming second summit of the Grain from Ukraine initiative.

* * * * *

The information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. SeeNews does not endorse in any way, the views, opinions or recommendations expressed above. The use of the information is subject to the terms and conditions as published by the original source, which you have to read and accept in full prior to the execution of any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein.

SeeNews EOOD

文件 UKGOV00020231127ejbr0015p


GRAIN FROM OCCUPIED TERRITORIES SHOULD BE SUBJECT TO SANCTIONS – PRESIDENT OF LATVIA, LITHUANIAN PM
Weekly Business Report, 2023 年 11 月 27 日, 287 字, (英文)
KYIV. Nov 27 (Interfax-Ukraine) – Grain and other products from Russia-occupied Ukrainian territories should be subject to sanctions, Latvian President Edgars Rinkevics said at a press conference in Kyiv on Saturday.

GRAIN FROM OCCUPIED TERRITORIES SHOULD BE SUBJECT TO SANCTIONS – PRESIDENT OF LATVIA, LITHUANIAN PM
Agro, 2023 年 11 月 27 日, 287 字, (英文)
KYIV. Nov 27 (Interfax-Ukraine) – Grain and other products from Russia-occupied Ukrainian territories should be subject to sanctions, Latvian President Edgars Rinkevics said at a press conference in Kyiv on Saturday.

The pre-Olympic basketball games were drawn: 24 teams looking for four places in Paris
Gonzalo Bonadeo
590 字
2023 年 11 月 29 日
Around The Rings
ATR
英文
Copyright 2023. Around The Rings
Piraeus (Greece), Riga (Latvia), San Juan (Puerto Rico) and Valencia (Spain) will host, from July 2 to 7 next year, the tournaments that will define the last four qualifiers for the Olympic Games.

Some people say that in some sports, for example football, the qualifiers for the World Cup finals are more difficult than the World Cup itself.

Even considering that sentence exaggerated, I must admit that there are exceptions that justify the rule. Proof of this was the absence of Italy, a historic power in this specialty, both in Russia 2018 and in Qatar 2022.

Where the equation becomes indisputable is the comparison between the paths taken to qualify for the top tournament in a sport and the one that takes you to an Olympic game.

There is no game in which, whether in volleyball or in hockey, in handball or in soccer, there are no notable absences. Basketball doesn’t come out of this situation unscathed either.

At the Patrick Baumann Basketball House in Mies, Switzerland, the drawing was held for the four Olympic Qualifiers that will define the last places for the Paris 2024 Olympic Games.

There were 24 selected participants in the Pre-Olympic Games: 19 competed in the last World Cup organized jointly by the Philippines, Indonesia and Japan, while the remaining five won the respective FIBA Pre-Olympic Qualification Tournaments (Poland, Croatia, Cameroon, Bahamas and Bahrain).

The Olympic Qualifiers will be held from July 2 to 7 next year and the cities that will host them will be Piraeus (Greece), Riga (Latvia), San Juan (Puerto Rico) and Valencia (Spain). Each of the champions will qualify for the Olympic Games.

Spread over four cities, 24 countries will search for the ranking. Only the winner of each of the tournaments will go to Paris. Credit. FIBA[https://www.infobae.com/new-resizer/LIX14HE-vT--t8T_Squnm6yYxOs=/cloudfront-us-east-1.images.arcpublishing.com/infobae/6Z3CLL5HI5HNJOK6LFWGFAKN4U.jpeg]

The Olympic Qualifiers will consist of two groups of three selected that were formed after the drawing carried out by Luol Deng, president of the South Sudan Basketball Federation and a two-time NBA All-Star. The world ranking determined the top seeds (Spain, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovenia) and the six drums.

Pre-Olympic Games in Valencia (Spain)

Group A: Spain, Angola and Lebanon

Group B: Finland, Poland and Bahamas

Pre-Olympic Games in Piraeus (Greece)

Group A: Slovenia, New Zealand and Croatia

Group B: Egypt, Greece, Dominican Republic

Olympic qualification in Riga (Latvia)

Group A: Latvia, Georgia and the Philippines

Group B: Brazil, Montenegro and Cameroon

Olympic Qualifying San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Group A: Lithuania, Mexico and Ivory Coast

Group B: Italy, Puerto Rico and Bahrain

Basketball in Paris 2024: the eight countries that are qualified

There are 12 selected to be part of the next Olympic Games and one is France, the host. The other seven won their place in the last World Cup: Germany and Serbia for Europe, Canada and the United States for America, Australia for Oceania, Japan for Asia and South Sudan for Africa.

Russia, a bronze medal winner in London 2012, did not participate in the classification due to the sanction imposed on it for the invasion of Ukraine in February of last year. The United States won seven of the last eight Olympic Games and only Argentina, in Athens 2004, managed to break the dominance of the North Americans.

Puerto Rico was selected as one of the four countries to hold these pre-Olympic Games, which will define the last places for Paris 2024. Credit. FIBA[https://www.infobae.com/new-resizer/A0laLPeEcjx7IFutv4LUjWCKGpQ=/cloudfront-us-east-1.images.arcpublishing.com/infobae/ZUQKJJTO7ZDTPNCWRDSWWTNBIU.png]

Around The Rings

文件 ATR0000020231129ejbt00001


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11222
Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Karolis Broga
3212 字
2023 年 12 月 6 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11222 (95628) WEDNESDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 6

 

NAUSĖDA CONGRATULATED FINLAND ON INDEPENDENCE DAY

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda extended congratulations on Wednesday to President Sauli Niinistö and the people of Finland celebrating Independence Day, said the presidency.

"Finland is a close neighbour and ally of Lithuania. We enjoy friendly relations and are committed to expanding them further both bilaterally and at the EU level,” the president wrote in his message of congratulations.

Nausėda expressed his delight to have welcomed Finland as the 31st full member of the Alliance at the NATO Summit in Vilnius this past July. Finland’s membership in NATO is highly important for the security of the Baltic Sea region and the Alliance as a whole.

The president underscored the significance of close ties between Lithuania and Finland in the context of Nordic-Baltic cooperation. "Our unity is critical to overcoming the security challenges facing the region, the hybrid threats we confront and the global consequences of Russia’s war against Ukraine. Speaking with one strong voice, we stand up for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We fight disinformation and we work for security and stability across the region and around the world,” the president wrote.

Nausėda wished Finland and its people continued well-being and prosperity and extended his best wishes to the Finnish president.

 

SPEAKER OF THE SEIMAS CONGRATULATES THE FINNISH PARLIAMENT ON INDEPENDENCE DAY

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – On behalf of the Seimas and on her own behalf, Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen, speaker of the Seimas, congratulated Jussi Halla-aho, speaker of the Eduskunta of the Republic of Finland, on Independence Day, the national day of the country.

She wished the parliament a harmonious and smooth work to build a better and safer future for the Finnish population, said the press service of the Seimas.

"Just like 106 years ago, when Finland declared its independence from the tsarist Russia, today we are facing a tense geopolitical situation and challenges to democracy, security and international law. Today, cooperation in multilateral formats, such as the European Union and NATO, as well as bilateral cooperation are more important than ever,” the congratulatory letter reads.

Ms Čmilytė-Nielsen also took the opportunity to invite her Finnish counterpart to pay a visit to Lithuania.

 

PM CONGRATULATES FINLAND ON INDEPENDENCE DAY

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – On behalf of the Lithuanian people and the Government, Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė sincerely congratulated Finland on its Independence Day, said the prime minister’s press service.

"As close partners and allies in the EU and NATO, our two nations remain committed to the shared ideals of liberty and democracy and are working closely together to build a strong and forward looking Nordic-Baltic region, as well as sustainable peace in the Baltic Sea region, on our continent and beyond,” states the greeting from the head of Government.

"I firmly believe that friendly relations between our two countries will be further enhanced by our cooperation aimed at strengthening democratic values and rules-based international order. Today, with our nations facing multiple threats, including hybrid ones, it is crucial for our countries to deepen our cooperation even further. Our solidary has never been more critical in countering common challenges and building resilient Europe,” Šimonytė wrote.

 

LITHUANIA TO HOLD 2024 EUROPEAN ELECTIONS ON 9 JUNE

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – Lithuania will elect its representatives to the European Parliament on 9 June 2024, the Seimas decided on Tuesday.

The parliament’s resolution on the election date was supported by 109 MPs against four, with 11 abstentions.

European Union (EU) countries will hold European elections from 6 to 9 June 2024, as decided by the EU Council in May this year.

"The Code on Elections lays down that [the elections to the European Parliament] should be held on Sunday, 9 June, and political campaigning should start on 9 December at the latest,” Seimas Speaker Vikorija Čmilytė- Nielsen said as she presented the draft motion.

Nearly a month earlier, on 12 May 2024, Lithuanians will be electing their next president and voting on dual citizenship in a mandatory referendum.

 

PARLT SPEAKER TO SUBMIT DRAFT MOTION TO IMPEACH GRAŽULIS ON THURSDAY

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen intends to put forward a draft motion on the date of impeaching MP Petras Gražulis in the Parliament on Thursday.

The Constitutional Court on Tuesday ruled that MP Gražulis had violated the Constitution and had broken his oath by casting vote for another member of the Seimas.

The conclusion gives the green light to the Parliament to revoke the mandate of Gražulis. Eighty-five MP votes are needed to do so.

"I believe we will be able to begin the impeachment proceedings in the Seimas next week,” she told ELTA.

In November this year, the Seimas initiated the impeachment of Gražulis on another ground – after a court found him guilty of abuse of office. The Parliament is set to decide on removing MP Gražulis from office on 19 December.

Gražulis faces impeachment over 2022 March conviction of abuse of office as he unlawfully represented the interests of the company Judex, used the company’s finances and attempted to influence civil servants. The judgment was upheld both by the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. He was fined EUR 15,000.

If Gražulis’ mandate were revoked because he voted for another MP, he would be banned from standing for Parliament for ten years. If the politician were to lose his mandate as a result of the criminal case, this sanction would not apply.

Čmilytė-Nielsen said the lawmakers should first take decisions on the basis of the Constitutional Court’s ruling on voting for another MP.

"It would be logical for the Seimas to decide on this impeachment first, because the appeal to the Constitutional Court was made earlier. This would be the most logical [step] bearing in mind the terms set,” the Seimas speaker said.

 

NATO JETS SCRAMBLED ONCE LAST WEEK

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – On 27 November-3 December, NATO Air Policing Mission Detachment fighter aircraft were scrambled once to intercept aircraft of the Russian Federation violating flight rules in international airspace over the Baltic Sea, announced the Ministry of National Defence.

On 27 November, NATO Air policing fighter detachment aircraft were scrambled to identify and escort one AN-26 flying in international airspace from the mainland of the Russian Federation to Kaliningrad.

No flight plan was pre-filed for the flight, the crew kept the onboard transponder switched off and maintained radio communication with the regional air traffic control centre.

 

IRREGULAR MIGRANTS WERE NOT DETECTED AT BORDER WITH BELARUS ON TUESDAY

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – On 5 December, Tuesday, irregular migrants did not attempt to access Lithuania via Belarus, reports the State Border Guard Service (VSAT).

According to the agency, border guards have not encountered migrants at border with Belarus for three days in a row.

Meanwhile, Latvia stopped four irregular migrants from entering its territory via Belarus on Tuesday. Polish border guards on Monday stopped one foreigner who attempted to cross the border illegally from Belarus.

So far in 2023, the VSAT has turned away 2,540 irregular migrants that tried to enter Lithuania via Belarus. The figure stood at 11,211 in 2022 and 8,106 in 2021.

Since the start of the migrant crisis caused by Belarus in the spring of 2021, Lithuania has thwarted a total of 21,857 illegal border crossing attempts.

 

LITHUANIAN 15-YEAR-OLDS OUTPERFORM PEERS IN A NUMBER OF COUNTRIES IN PISA TESTS

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – Lithuanian 15-year-olds show similar scores in international reading, mathematics and life science tests as a few years ago, says the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.

The results of Lithuanian teenagers are in line with the average of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and ahead of a large number of other countries participating in the study, it also said.

On Tuesday, the OECD published the 2022 results of its Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) tests.

"PISA tests are taken by fifteen-year-olds, regardless of the Year they are in. Some of them are still in Year 7, some are in Year 10, and most of them are in Year 9 and Year 8. We can see that the results are also strongly influenced by the grade in which the pupil is enrolled, as it means that the pupil has been educated for a much greater number of years,” said Minister Gintautas Jakštas, presenting the study at the ministry.

The study ranks Lithuanian 15-year-olds 24th out of 81 countries in mathematical literacy, 32nd in reading and 29th in science.

The best performers in Lithuania were found to be pupils from the capital and big cities. According to the study, Lithuanian 15-year-olds make friends easily but sometimes struggle to concentrate.

In Lithuania, boys are better at maths, while girls have better reading skills, life satisfaction is higher in Lithuania than in other countries, the OECD study shows.

In Lithuania, 7.257 pupils from 292 schools took part in the study, representing around 24,300 15-year-olds (around 92% of all 15-year-olds in Lithuania), the majority of whom were in Year 9.

 

AVERAGE AFTER-TAX INCOME UP BY NEARLY 11% IN Q3 – SODRA

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – After-tax labour income in Lithuania grew by EUR 119 or 10.7% in the third quarter, year-on-year, State Social Insurance Fund Sodra said on Tuesday.

The average monthly income from work was EUR 1,235, after taxes, in July-September, according to Sodra.

Meanwhile, pre-tax labour income rose by EUR 209, or 11.7%, to EUR 1,989. Real labour income per capita went up by around 7%.

"After-tax labour income grew by nearly 11%, while annual inflation ran at nearly 4% in September. We estimate that the real income growth was around 7%,” said Kristina Zitikytė, adviser with Sodra’s statistical analysis unit.

Data available for October also show growth in labour income, she added.

"Labour income continued to grow in October, rising by just over 13%.In October, average income was around EUR 2,011. This is a reminder to us that this year we have already seen many months when average labour income reached and exceeded the mark of EUR 2,000,” Sodra’s analyst said.

According to Sodra, the biggest annual increase in labour income was observed for construction workers: 18.8% to EUR 1,483 before taxes or around EUR 970 after taxes, which is still below the national average.

Zitikytė said that the rise in wages of construction workers may have been due to a change in the procedure for payment of bonuses for outdoor work. Some workers have left the shadow economy due to the Transparent Worker ID.

Labour income in the high value-added information and communication sector grew by 8.7% to EUR 3,113 before taxes.

Sodra also said that wages in the public sector increased similarly as the average, with a 11.6% rise (to EUR 2,145 before taxes) for public administration employees, and 12.3% (EUR 2,069 before taxes) for healthcare and social workers.

 

LITHUANIA’S INDUSTRIAL PRODUCER PRICES DOWN BY 9.8% IN OCTOBER Y-O-Y – EUROSTAT

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – In October 2023, industrial producer prices rose by 0.2% in both the euro area and the EU, compared with September 2023, according to estimates from Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union. In September 2023, prices increased by 0.5% in both the euro area and the EU.

In October 2023, compared with October 2022, industrial producer prices decreased by 9.4% in the euro area and by 8.7% in the EU.

In Lithuania, industrial producer prices fell by 0.6% in October. The annual decline was 9.8%.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Wednesday, December 6

 

SEIMAS

 

Speaker of the Seimas Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

9:00

To attend a sitting of the Board of the Seimas;

10:00

To take part in a conference on assistance to people with disabilities who have suffered sexual violence;

12:00

To hold an internal meeting;

12:30

To hold an internal meeting;

13:00

To hold an internal meeting.

 

OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT

 

8:00

To hold an internal meeting;

8:30

To hold an internal meeting;

13:00

To chair Government sitting and informal meeting of the ministers.

 

MINISTRIES

 

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis:

To attend the 28th UN Climate Change Conference (COP28) in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis:

To meet with Australia’s new ambassador accredited to Lithuania.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

ESTONIAN, LATVIAN PARLT COMMITTEE CHAIRS VISIT US OVER CONTINUED SUPPORT TO UKRAINE

 

Tallinn, December 5 (ELTA) – Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu (Parliament of Estonia) Marko Mihkelson and his Latvian counterpart Rihards Kols are on a visit to the United States, the Riigikogu’s press service said on Tuesday.

The politicians’ meetings focus on maintaining support for Ukraine and developing a clear strategy for victory.

Mihkelson pointed out that the views of US senators and members of the House of Representatives were important because only the Congress could make decisions on funding for continued support to Ukraine.

The MP said that Estonia, like Latvia and Lithuania, was one of the most active supporters of Ukraine who also contributed significantly to its own defence.

"At the meetings, we reaffirm our commitment to keeping and developing good relations with the US, to continuing to fulfil our Alliance commitments and to further supporting Ukraine. Among other things, we call for using of Russia’s seized assets to support Ukraine,” he said, and added that Ukraine needed support until it had won the war.

On Tuesday, Mihkelson was set tospeak at an event in support of the Baltic States, Ukraine and Israel, which will be attended by US Senators and members of the House of Representatives, as well as experts on US foreign and defence policy, and representatives of embassies, the State Department, think tanks and interest groups.

Mihkelson and Kols have also planned to meet with members of the House of Representatives Chip Roy and Don Bacon, and the representatives of Meridian International Center.

On Monday, the MPs had meetings at the Department of State, the American Jewish Committee and several think tanks. The chairs of Foreign Affairs Committees of the Estonian and Latvian parliaments also met with former US Ambassador to NATO Kurt Volker. All meetings focused on countering the narrative of war fatigue and shaping a clear victory strategy for Ukraine.

 

ESTONIA DROPS TO FOURTH IN LATEST PISA RANKINGS

 

Tallinn, December 5 (ELTA) – Although Estonia’s 15-year-olds were only outperformed by their contemporaries from three other countries in the OECD’s latest PISA test, the math and functional reading skills of Estonia’s basic school pupils have fallen over the last four years, the ERR public broadcaster reports.

Teachers say this is mainly down to distance learning due to the Coronavirus pandemic, while the lack of sufficiently qualified teachers may also play a role.

"Compared to 2018, we are still up at the top. (&) We can all be proud of the Estonian education system and its results,” said Estonian Minister of Education and Research Kristina Kallas (Eesti 200), at a press conference to present the results.

Kallas stressed that almost all countries, except Japan, had less points this time round than in 2018.

 

LATVIAN PRESIDENT MEETS WITH JAVOIŠS, MEMBER OF NATIONAL RESISTANCE MOVEMENT

 

Riga, December 5 (ELTA) – Latvian President Edgars Rinkēvičs on Tuesday met with Bruno Javoišs, a member of the National Resistance Movement, art historian, translator, public worker and Latvian patriot, the presidency reports.

Exactly 60 years ago, on the morning of 5 December 1963, on what is now Radio Street in Riga, Bruno Javoišs hoisted the red-white-red flag he had sewn himself on the 76-metre-high radio tower next to the then city militia headquarters. This date was chosen deliberately and symbolically, because during the Soviet occupation, 5 December marked the Day of the USSR Constitution.

At the time, Javoišs was 22 years old and a first-year student at the Riga Aviation Institute. After climbing the tower, Javoišs was arrested and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment, which he served in the Mordovia camps. He spent his imprisonment years together with Gunārs Astra, Jānis Ziemelis, Knuts Skujenieks and many other members of the national resistance movement.

Bruno Javoišs graduated from Riga High School No. 50. After serving his sentence in 1971, Javoišs moved to Tartu. Javoišs graduated the University of Tartu as an art historian. After the restoration of independence of the Republic of Estonia, Javoišs founded and headed the Latvian Society of Southern Estonia, which at that time united about 100 Latvians.

Thanks to the activities of the leader and the association, the cemetery of the First World War Latvian Riflemen and refugees in Tartu New St. John’s Cemetery was restored. Javoišs lives in Tartu, but regularly visits Latvia and participates in various national patriotic events.

As a member of the national resistance movement and a public figure, Bruno Javoišs has been awarded the Golden medal of the Order of the Three Stars and is a Commander of the Order of Viesturs.

 

LATVIA SEES 18% RISE IN PASSENGER TRANSPORT BY ROAD IN JAN-SEP

 

Riga, December 5 (ELTA) –that in Latvia observed an increase in passenger traffic by all modes of transport in January-September 2023, year-on-year, the country’s Central Statistical Bureau (CSB) said on Tuesday.

During the nine months of 2023, the number of passengers carried by land passenger transport comprised 139.4 million passengers, which is 17.9% more than in the nine months of 2022.

The number of passengers carried by rail transport comprised 13 million, a rise of 11.3%. The number of passengers carried by national transport rose by 11.3%, but the number of passengers carried by international transport by 16.7%.

A total of 77.1 million passengers were carried by regular bus traffic lines, which is 15% more than a year ago. Number of passengers carried in national lines increased by 15%, but the number of passengers carried in international lines by 4.3%.

The number of passengers carried by trolleybuses comprised 28.7 million passengers, a rise of 34.9%, but by trams – 20.6 million passengers, a growth of 12.9%.

In the nine months of 2023, 303.5 thousand passengers arrived at and departed from Ventspils and Liepāja ports with ferries. Their number has increased by 3.8%, compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. At Ventspils port passenger turnover comprised 230.5 thousand passengers, 2.4% more, but at Liepāja port – 73 thousand passengers, which is 8.5% more. Ferry traffic at Riga Passenger Terminal is closed since 2021.

In the nine months of 2023 the number of passenger arrivals and departures at Riga International Airport comprised 5 million, which is 28.2% more than in the nine months of 2022.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020231206ejc6000gp


Businesses transporting Russian food behave immorally but legally - Lithuanian PM
LETA
264 字
2023 年 12 月 7 日 13:48 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
VILNIUS, Dec 7 (LETA--BNS) - Businesses transporting Russian grain and food products through Lithuania are behaving immorally but legally, Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte says.

"As you know, food products - and this is a key provision of the EU and international sanction policy - are exempted from the existing sanctions as far as the availability of food is concerned. Neither when transported to Russia, nor from Russia," the prime minister said during the Government Hour in the Seimas on Thursday.

"That doesn’t mean that I think that people who have a business, even related food products, and have some kind of commercial relationship with Russia are behaving morally. It seems far from it to me, but they are behaving legally," the prime minister added.

She also vowed to look into the volumes of Russian grain and food products transported via Lithuania.

"I will certainly check how much grain is handled by the port of Klaipeda, what are the import, export and transit data," she said.

Agriculture Minister Kestutis Navickas said earlier that Russian grain was being transported through Latvian ports but it did not enter the Lithuanian port of Klaipeda. Nevertheless, he did not rule out that Russian grain could be imported by falsifying its documents of origin.

Ausrys Macijauskas, the president of the Lithuanian Association of Grain Growers, said that about one million tons of grain have been imported from Russia into Latvia so far, calling on the the Lithuanian government to ensure that it does not enter Lithuania from Latvia.

44464433313030322D363632392D3444

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020231207ejc7001rx


New Russia sanction package to put more responsibility on EU firms – Lithuanian official
BNS/TBT Staff
224 字
2023 年 12 月 7 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2023 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – The European Union's 12th package of sanctions against Russia will likely make EU companies responsible for the movement of their goods and oblige some of them to control their financial flows outside the bloc, Lithuanian Deputy Foreign Minister Jovita Neliupsiene said on Thursday.

"The 12th sanctions package will actually have a bigger impact on businesses, despite the sanctions being targeted at Russia. There will be an obligation to tighten responsibility throughout the whole trade chain," Neliupsiene said at the Sanctions Management Forum in Vilnius.

"Contracts will have to contain requirements, where the buyer will commit not to sell or export sanctioned goods to Russia and to demand certain guarantees," she said.

The 12th package will include restrictions on high-tech and information technology services, and the laser industry, according to Neliupsiene.

The official said that the package will tighten the control of financial flows of EU-based companies controlled by Russian-linked persons outside the bloc.

"Authorization for the transfer of funds outside the European Union will be required for EU companies owned by Russian entities or controlled by Russian persons," she said.

The vice-minister underlined that Russia's growing GDP does not mean that international sanctions have no impact on the country's economy.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020231207ejc700036


News
Salvaging Russia's sanctioned EU businesses
DANIELLE MYLES
1060 字
2023 年 12 月 7 日
Foreign Direct Investment
FDINV
1; National
56,57
英文
© 2023 The Financial Times Limited.
AN ITALIAN STEEL GROUP'S ACQUISITION OF FROZEN RUSSIAN ASSETS IN LATVIA IS A LESSON IN HOW TO MITIGATE THE ECONOMIC FALLOUT OF WAR.

R

ussia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 has redefined its business relations with the EU. European firms have made headlines by exiting the country, while the European Commission is forging ahead with plans to use the €200bn in Russian funds frozen in the bloc to fund Ukraine's reconstruction. What has received less attention,

however, is the fate of European businesses that have been paralysed due to being majorityowned or controlled by Russian-sanctioned individuals or entities.

The best known examples have been resolved through unorthodox measures. Last year, the UK government issued a special licence to Chelsea Football Club to allow it to continue operating while its blacklisted owner Roman Abramovich sold the club. Germany's government has nationalised a local gas business backed by Russian state-owned Gazprom. But an unsung example in Latvia saw the country of 1.9 million people

turn frozen assets into an opportunity to attract multinational steel group Marcegaglia, which the government says is one its biggest foreign investors in recent years.

'This deal won't go through' Italy-headquartered Marcegaglia began exploring the acquisition of Russian steelmaker Severstal's EU business in the first half of 2022. Severstal's service centre in Riga, which was the biggest steel processing facility in the Baltics, and trading posts in Poland and Ukraine had stopped operating in February when controlling shareholder Alexei Mordashov was sanctioned by the EU.

Severstal's business was "very important" to Riga's economy, says Ivi Anna Buce, director of the investment project department at the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia. Its closure led the majority of its 300 workers to leave, after their salaries went unpaid, or be made redundant. Ms Buce says it also created problems for small and medium-sized customers, which struggled to find another local supplier.

Drawn by potential synergies with its Polish operations, the prospect of a foothold in the Baltics and stronger coverage of the Nordics, Marcegaglia negotiated its acquisition of the business with Severstal. Then in August 2022, Marcegaglia had to convince Latvia's government that it was worth jumping through the regulatory hoops to get the deal approved under stringent EU sanction rules. Edmunds Valantis, state secretary of Latvia's ministry of economics, says the prospect of the business being resurrected by Marcegaglia, with its annual turnover of €8.6bn and operations in four continents, was a compelling enough reason.

"There was interest from a foreign company, heavily involved in export operations [and] servicing other EU countries, to unfreeze frozen assets," he says. "For us it was very important to use the opportunity."

In line with EU sanction rules, the sales proceeds (of an undisclosed value) remain in an escrow account that Severstal cannot access until its sanctions are lifted. When asked why it sold the business, a Severstal spokesperson said via email: "It's important for us that our colleagues keep their jobs and that the assets we have developed over many years continue to operate." Getting the deal over the line required two deadline extensions by the European Council, two extraordinary meetings of the Latvian cabinet of ministers, and close co-operation between the country's ministries, embassy in Rome, security authorities and prime minister's office. "There were definitely moments when we thought this deal won't go through," recalls Ms Buce. In April 2023, those fears were put to rest when the European Commission gave its approval.

A €10m turnaround When Marcegaglia took over the Riga plant in June, it had been idle for more than a year. Antonio Marcegaglia, the group's chairman and CEO, says it is "taking a slow approach to restarting" because it wants to upgrade the equipment. "The plant's style is a little old, in that it is not fully automated and productivity oriented," he explains. Its ambition is to return the Latvian business to its operational peak of generating €300m in revenues and processing 300,000 tonnes of steel annually, and

having close to 300 workers. "Our mission is to reestablish the decent presence that was there before the war and sanctions hit the company," says Mr Marcegaglia.

The group intends to invest around €10m in the business over the next year, he says, noting that a service centre like Riga's which is focused on steel finishing does not require huge amounts of capital. "However, in the long term we plan to grow further," he adds. In addition to investment and jobs, Marcegaglia's presence will increase business for Riga's port and avoid creating an abandoned industrial site. "Not doing this would have degraded the territory, with a huge amount of rusted steel," says Ms Buce. From an investment perspective, a new global player in Latvia is already having a knock-on effect. "We are on totally different terms now talking with Italian companies," she says. "We feel we have more interest from potential Italian investors."

Collateral damage The rescue of Severstal's Latvian business has highlighted the unseen collateral damage of sanctions. Daniel Martin, partner at law firm HFW, notes that blacklisted entities and individuals' assets abroad often include facilities which individuals rely on for employment. "Assets being essentially mothballed" also creates operational and environmental concerns, he adds.

The only other known example of an EU firm salvaging sanctioned Russian assets is French shipping group CMA CGM. In April 2022, it acquired automotive logistics compatriot Gefco which was previously 75% owned by sanctioned Russian Railways. Yet Transcrime, a research centre at the Università Cattolica in Milan, has investigated Russian entities and individuals on EU and US sanction lists and found they have links with at least 9866 companies across Europe. While the number of these links that amount to controlling interests, and therefore warrant asset freezes, is likely much smaller, it suggests Marcegaglia's turnaround story can be an example for other businesses suffering from Russia's invasion. "This is a way that we can normalise a situation so that companies and enterprises that are not operational can produce value again," says Ms Buce. ¦

OUR MISSION IS TO REESTABLISH THE DECENT PRESENCE THAT WAS THERE BEFORE THE WAR AND SANCTIONS

FT Business Publications Limited

文件 FDINV00020231220ejc700043


Latvia calls for more active action on return of Ukrainian children abducted by Russia in talks with allies
Kristaps Ūgainis
424 字
2023 年 12 月 14 日 14:31 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
RIGA, Dec 14 (LETA) - Latvia will call for more active action on the issue of the return of Ukrainian children abducted by Russia, Minister of Justice Inese Libina-Egnere (New Unity) said at a meeting with Ukrainian Deputy Parliamentary Speaker Olena Kondratiuk.

The Ministry of Justice informed LETA that the Minister met with Kondratiuk on December 13, during which she expressed Latvia's unwavering support for Ukraine in restoring justice and the international legal order. During their talks, the two sides paid particular attention to children's rights issues, condemning Russia's policy of destroying Ukrainian families and abducting children in the occupied territories of Ukraine.

In her conversation with the Deputy Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, Libina-Egnere stressed that they agreed on the need for countries and organizations at international level to introduce more coordinated mechanisms for the return of children abducted by Russia to Ukraine. So far, these have been ineffective.

According to the Ukrainian side, almost 20,000 abducted children have now been officially confirmed, some of them with their parents still living in the Russian occupied territories. It should be noted that unofficial figures indicate that almost 100,000 Ukrainian children have been abducted.

Russia puts children in filtration camps, psychologically influences them, belittles Ukrainian values, then gives them up for forced adoption in Russia. The aggressor state separates brothers and sisters, the children are told that their families were killed by the Ukrainians themselves. It should be pointed out that children under the age of 14 who are kidnapped by Russia in the occupied territories in an organized manner are automatically forced to take Russian citizenship.

During the meeting, the two sides discussed the need to include in the sanctions list not only those officials who are politically responsible, but also those officials who carry out the abduction of children in practice. In addition, for sanctions to be effective, it is also necessary to sanction the family members of these individuals. The Deputy Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament pointed out that Ukraine has a list of sanctioned persons, and this list could be used in other European countries.

During the meeting, Kondratiuk expressed gratitude to Latvia and its citizens for their political, military and humanitarian support to Ukraine since the first day of the war, noting that the support of the Baltic States serves as an example to other countries in their fight against the aggressor state.

37334546334639372D434142392D3444

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020231214ejce0028l


Tieslietu Ministrija - Minister of Justice to the Vice-Speaker of Ukraine: Latvia calls for more active action on return of Ukrainian children abducted by Russia in talks with allies
Tieslietu Ministrija published this content on 15 Dec 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 15 Dec 2023 13:33:17 UTC.
823 字
2023 年 12 月 15 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://www.tm.gov.lv/en/article/minister-justice-vice-speaker-ukraine-latvia-calls-more-active-action-return-ukrainian-children-abducted-russia-talks-allies]

Minister of Justice to the Vice-Speaker of Ukraine: Latvia calls for more active action on return of Ukrainian children abducted by Russia in talks with allies

On Wednesday, 13 December, the Minister for Justice Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, meeting with Olena Kondratiuk, Deputy Speaker of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, expressed Latvia's unwavering support for Ukraine in restoring justice and the international rule of law. The two sides paid particular attention to children's rights, condemning Russia's policy of destroying Ukrainian families and abducting children in the occupied territories of Ukraine.

The Minister for Justice Inese Lībiņa-Egnere states: "In our conversation with the Vice-president of the Ukrainian Parliament, we agreed that at the international level, countries and organisations need to introduce more coordinated mechanisms for the return of children abducted by Russia to Ukraine. So far, they have been ineffective. We are talking about children, the most vulnerable group in society, against whom Russia is currently committing genocide. We, the democratic world, cannot let them down. Latvia and Ukraine expect more active and transparent involvement of international organisations to prevent war crimes against children and to ensure that the aggressor state is punished and condemned by the international community. Latvia will call on the international community to take much more active steps in talks with partners".

According to the Ukrainian side, almost 20,000 children have now been officially confirmed as having been abducted, some of them with their parents still living in Russian-occupied territories. It should be noted that unofficial figures suggest that almost 100,000 Ukrainian children have been abducted. As part of Russia's policy, children are brutally placed in filtration camps, psychologically influenced, Ukrainian values are disparaged, and then forcibly adopted in Russia. The aggressor state singles out brothers and sisters, children are told that their families were killed by Ukrainians themselves. It should be pointed out that children under the age of 14 who are abducted by Russia in the occupied territories are automatically forced to accept Russian citizenship.

During the meeting, the two sides discussed the need to include on the sanctions list not only those officials who are politically responsible, but also those officials who carry out child abduction in practice. In addition, for sanctions to be effective, it is also necessary to sanction the family members of these persons. The Vice-president of the Ukrainian Parliament pointed out that Ukraine has a list of sanctioned persons which could be used in other European countries.

The Minister for Justice I.Lībiņa-Egnere expressed support for Ukraine in its fight against Russia, noting that Latvia can provide psychological rehabilitation for abducted children who have been returned to Ukraine. Latvia has been at the forefront of support for Ukraine's reconstruction, for example, in September this year in Riga, as part of Latvia's Presidency of the Council of Europe, the Ministry of Justice organised a high-level conference of Ministers for Justice of the Council of Europe to decide on the next steps to ensure Russia's accountability for the crimes committed in Ukraine and the return of Ukrainian children abducted by Russia to their families. During this meeting, a jointpolitical declaration[https://www.tm.gov.lv/lv/media/16806/download?attachment]expressing strong condemnation of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. At a meeting in September, representatives of more than 40 countries of the Council of Europe said that Russia and its political and military leadership must take full responsibility for the hostilities in Ukraine. At the same time, the Declaration also contains guidelines, or the Riga Principles, aimed at ensuring the effective functioning of the Ukrainian Register of Damages.

During the meeting, Olena Kondratiuk expressed gratitude to Latvia and its citizens for the political, military and humanitarian support provided to Ukraine since the first day of the war, noting that the support of the Baltic States serves as an example to other countries in their fight against the aggressor state.

It should be noted that the Ministry of Justice will continue to strengthen Latvia's role in international law issues, including by providing legal support to Ukraine - strengthening the international sanctions system, participating in the work of the International Criminal Court and in the establishment of a possible international tribunal to assess and punish war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.tm.gov.lv/en/article/minister-justice-vice-speaker-ukraine-latvia-calls-more-active-action-return-ukrainian-children-abducted-russia-talks-allies]

Disclaimer

Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Latvia published this content on 15 December 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 15 December 2023 13:35:43 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020231215ejcf0053i


Latvijas Republikas Ministru Kabinets - E. Siliņa during the meeting with President of Ukraine: Latvia stands, has stood and will stand with Ukraine
Latvijas Republikas Ministru Kabinets published this content on 11 Jan 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 12 Jan 2024 08:29:56 UTC.
849 字
2024 年 1 月 11 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2024. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://www.mk.gov.lv/en/article/e-silina-during-meeting-president-ukraine-latvia-stands-has-stood-and-will-stand-ukraine]

E. Siliņa during the meeting with President of Ukraine: Latvia stands, has stood and will stand with Ukraine

"Ukraine can rely on further support from Latvia, and the new military support package will provide additional capacity to stop Russia and its atrocities," emphasized Prime Minister Evika Siliņa during the meeting with President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy held at the Cabinet of Ministers on Thursday 11 January.

On Thursday, an agreement between the Governments of Latvia and Ukraine was signed at the Cabinet of Ministers, which regulates the cooperation in the fields of technical and financial assistance between Latvia and Ukraine. The joint memorandum of the Ministry of Strategic Industries of Ukraine and the Latvian Federation of Security and Defence Industries was also signed.

At the beginning of the meeting, the Prime Minister emphasised, "Mr. President, Latvia stands, has stood and will stand with Ukraine. Your people can rely on further military, political and financial support from Latvia. We have made and we will deliver on our promises both in Latvia, in the European Union and in support of your paths towards NATO membership. It is natural for us to support Ukraine because Latvia has experienced the evil -the atrocities by the Soviet occupation regime. Unfortunately, this same evil has resurrected today in Russia. The Ukrainian people struggle admirably to defend their homes and families, while at the same time undertaking reforms to join the European Union. The expulsion of occupational forces from Ukraine and the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine are our common goals. Latvia's new military assistance package to Ukraine includes the supply of weapons, munition, drones, artillery and equipment, as well as further training of soldiers. Freedom in Ukraine implies security in Europe and in the world. We will win, glory to Ukraine!"

Latvia has been providing diverse support to Ukraine since 24 February 2022, including military, financial, reconstruction and humanitarian assistance. The total aid has exceeded EUR 600 million. The bulk of this amount is made up of military support. It is important to note that this support was provided not only by the state and local government institutions, but also by the general public, as well as by actively engaging in various civic activities and donating.

The funds for the reconstruction of Ukraine are envisaged in the 2024 budget of Latvia. Their effective and efficient use will be responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Defence of Latvia has prepared a military support package for Ukraine for 2024, which includes ammunition, equipment and training for soldiers.

It is planned that the rehabilitation of Ukrainian soldiers will continue at least in the extent of 2023, as well as the exchange of experience in the field of medicine, including microsurgery and rehabilitation. Support to Ukraine remains a priority of Latvia's international contributions and development cooperation.

The Prime Minister also assured V. Zelenskyy that Latvia will continue to support Ukrainian civilians who have fled from the war to our country. Since March 2022, 52660 Ukrainian civilians have been registered in Latvia.

The officials also discussed the future sanction policy against Russia, measures against circumvention of sanctions, possibilities to use frozen Russia's funds in support of Ukraine, as well as holding Russia accountable for the crimes of aggression.

Prior to the meeting of delegations at the Cabinet of Ministers, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Latvia Krišjānis Kariņš and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Dmytro Kuleba, signed an agreement on technical and financial cooperation. Under this agreement, Latvia commits to continue providing support to Ukraine. The agreement provides for the establishment of legitimate arrangements to regulate cooperation in the fields of technical and financial assistance between Latvia and Ukraine.

The Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Strategic Industries of Ukraine and the Federation of Security and Defence Industries of Latvia on cooperation between defence and security industries was also signed by Elīna Egle, Chairperson of the Board of the Latvian Federation of Security and Defence Industries, and Sergiy Boyev, Deputy Minister for European Integration of the Ministry of Strategic Industries of Ukraine. Cooperation between Latvian and Ukrainian defence industry companies will be strengthened, especially in the field of the supply and production of unmanned aircraft, land vehicles and other autonomous platforms, electronic warfare solutions and other innovations.

Prime Minister's Office[https://www.mk.gov.lv/en/department/prime-ministers-office]

Aleksis Zoldners

Press Secretary of the Prime Minister

+371 67082865

+371 20071752

aleksis.zoldners[at] mk.gov.lv

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.mk.gov.lv/en/article/e-silina-during-meeting-president-ukraine-latvia-stands-has-stood-and-will-stand-ukraine]

Disclaimer

Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Latvia published this content on 11 January 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 12 January 2024 08:31:16 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020240112ek1b006y1


Zelenskyy: frozen Russian assets should be used to defend against its aggression
LETA
375 字
2024 年 1 月 12 日 07:22 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2024. BNN. All Rights Reserved
The frozen Russian assets should be used to defend against its aggression, as journalists were told by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, during his meeting with Latvian President Edgars Rinkēvičs in the Castle of Riga on Thursday, the 11th of January.

He said that Latvia and other countries supporting Ukraine in its fight against Russian aggression should continue working with Ukraine to the maximum extent to ensure Ukraine’s victory over Russia. Zelenskyy said that during his meeting with his Latvian colleague, the two discussed Ukraine’s future tasks. He also reported on the situation on the front, Ukraine’s defence needs, as well as future plans.

“We have to work more productively in terms of defence of European countries. Europe needs to be self-sufficient in its defence no matter how Russia threatened Ukraine and no matter what Russia makes its goal. Europe needs to be able to respond. This is the right for defence. Ukraine and its partners are working on creating a new arsenal in Europe and developing military industry to prevent Russia’s aggression against Europe,” said the Ukrainian president.

He stressed that countries should cooperate in their sanction policy against Russia and countries that support it.

Schemes used to attempt to circumvent sanctions should be blocked as well. Europe needs a unified position, and should refuse Russian energy resources.

Zelenskyy thanked Latvia for its support in Ukraine’s integration in the European Union. He stressed that Ukraine highly values the decision to commence Ukraine’s admission talks. Zelenskyy said its was a historically important decision for all countries located on the east of Europe.

“Ukraine is counting on Latvia's support in NATO, Latvia's principled position, establishing a dialogue with all partners on Ukraine's future in NATO,” said the Ukrainian president.

LETA previously reported that the Ukrainian president arrived in Latvia on an official visit on the 11th of January.

Also read: BNN ANALYSES | Operator of Lithuania’s airports rolls out its master plan until 2052, but experts are dubious

Follow us on Facebook and X!

The post Zelenskyy: frozen Russian assets should be used to defend against its aggression appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020240112ek1c00001


Russia This Week - January 12, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 1 月 12 日, 37290 字, (英文)
World Bank improves Russian 2023 GDP growth estimate to 2.6%In the latest Global Economic Prospects outlook, the World Bank improved its estimate of Russia’s GDP growth in 2023 to 2.6%, from 1.6% growth forecasted in September and a 0.2% ...

Business
Latvian President advocates unilateral ban on Russian grain import
Nataliia Direyeva
424 字
2024 年 1 月 24 日 22:28 GMT
RBC-Ukraine
RBCUK
英文
© 2024. LLC «UBT MEDIA». All rights reserved
Latvia intends to unilaterally impose a ban on the import of Russian grain, citing political and economic reasons, says the President of Latvia, Edgars Rinkēvičs.

The President pointed out that a significant issue is the ability of third countries to enable Russia to circumvent sanctions. He believes that grain imports support the "Russian military machine" and adversely affect Latvia's agriculture.

According to Rinkēvičs, the so-called Russian grain may be stolen from the occupied Ukrainian territories. Additionally, grain is utilized as a weapon in hybrid warfare.

Decisions can be made at national level

The President mentioned ongoing discussions about how to restrict trade with Russia, including mineral fertilizers and various food products, including grain. So far, most EU countries have not made decisions on including these goods in sanction lists, making it challenging.

Decisions can be made at the national level. Rinkēvičs expressed support for actions taken by the government at both national and international levels to address this situation.

Earlier, Prime Minister Ēriks Šiliņš stated that it makes no sense for Latvia to unilaterally implement measures against the import of Russian grain, as restrictions adopted unilaterally would not achieve the intended goal.

According to the Prime Minister, a ban on the import of Russian grain imposed solely by Latvia would be "on paper" rather than in reality. Thus, it is crucial to convince other Baltic and EU countries of the necessity of taking measures.

The President emphasized that progress can be made through active efforts.

Restrictions regarding Belarus

"I am open to ideas that will finally reduce the dependence of any of our trade on Russia and Belarus," said the President.

Rinkēvičs noted his awareness of discussions in the Saeima (Latvian Parliament) regarding the imposition of additional duties on companies trading with Russia and Belarus. Responsible ministries are analyzing the situation.

13th sanctions package

The European Union has started discussing a new package of sanctions, which it intends to approve by February 24, 2024.

Possible sanctions were discussed on January 18 at a meeting of the bloc's ambassadors, where member states debated how best to support Kyiv in the long term. But reaching an agreement on the 13th package of sanctions by next month will not be easy, as the last one required weeks of negotiations, Bloomberg notes.

Politico wrote that Russian aluminum products are among the goods that may be embargoed as part of the 13th package of EU sanctions.

Photo: President of Latvia, Edgars Rinkēvičs (Getty Images)[https://newsukraine.rbc.ua/static/img/_/r/_rinkevichs_ministr_zakordonnih_sprav_latviyi_gettyimages_1258308867_9c00f88f39fd779eeea454cf2dd6dd86_1300x820_1__0207933889400577f6cccfe8d7914574_1300x820.jpg]

RBC-Ukraine LLC

文件 RBCUK00020240124ek1o000p2


Latvian conference takes on issue of Russia kidnapping Ukrainian children
Public Radio International, 2024 年 2 月 3 日 15:07 GMT, 793 字, (英文)
​​​​​​​Over the course of nearly two years Russia has committed countless violations, crimes, and atrocities in Ukraine. However, as of now, the International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for only one crime of “deportation of ...

Latvian army supplied with food products from Russia and Belarus
LETA
484 字
2024 年 2 月 6 日 08:08 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2024. BNN. All Rights Reserved
Lanekss LLC supplied tea made in Russia and salt made in Belarus to the Latvian National Armed Forces (NBS), as reported by LTV programme Panorāma.

NBS orders food supplies through the State Centre for Defence Logistics and Procurement. In October 2023 the army was supplied with 2.6 kg of tea made in Russia. In January 2024 the Latvian army received 7 kg of Belarusian salt. NBS sent both shipments back.

Deputy Chief of the Joint Staff of the NBS for Support Kaspars Zdanovskis explained to the programme that contracts do not clearly state it is not allowed to source these products from Russia and Belarus. Nevertheless, these products will no longer be delivered to NBS cafeteria. Zdanovskis also said he considers adding this specific section in future contracts, adding at the same time that food products do not fall under sanctions.

At the same time, Zdanovskis says the decision to terminate the contract with Lanekss LLC should be made by a court of law.

Lanekss board member Ņina Siliņa explains that since the news report from Panorāma in January, when it was reported that the company had supplied armed forces with Russian tea, the company has called off all deals involving goods that could have even the smallest ties to Russia and Belarus. The company has also ceased procuring goods made in Russia and Belarus despite the fact that certain goods are not included on sanction lists.

Latvian Minister of Defence Andris Sprūds stresses that Russian and Belarusian goods must not be supplied to Latvia’s army. “We will set up measures to control goods, and suppliers will have to keep in mind severe consequences if they supply goods of inappropriate origin,” said Sprūds.

The LTV programme reports that the State Regional Development Agency (VRAA), which supervises the Electronic Procurement System (EIS), now needs to work with lawyers in order to see if it is possible to take action against a specific business. The distribution of Russian and Belarusian goods in the state and municipal procurement system is on hold for the moment.

When asked how to resolve this issue and whether Latvia could ban imports of such products, Latvian Prime Minister Evika Siliņa said this is a decision the entire European Union should make.

As previously reported, LTV received Greenfield-brand tea made in Russia in a test procurement. The label on the package states it was made in St Petersburg long after the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The tea was supplied by Lanekss.

It is also reported that the Military Police are currently investigating fraud in food supplies to Ādaži military base.

Also read: Tucker Carlson is not ruling out interview with Putin

Follow us on Facebook and X!

The post Latvian army supplied with food products from Russia and Belarus appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020240206ek260002u


LATVIA: ARMY SUPPLIED WITH FOOD PRODUCTS FROM RUSSIA AND BELARUS
389 字
2024 年 2 月 7 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2024. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
Lanekss LLC supplied tea made in Russia and salt made in Belarus to the Latvian National Armed Forces (NBS), as reported by LTV programme Panorama.

NBS orders food supplies through the State Centre for Defence Logistics and Procurement. In October 2023. the army was supplied with 2.6 kg of tea made in Russia. In January, the Latvian army received 7 kg of Belarusian salt. NBS sent both shipments back.

Deputy Chief of the Joint Staff of the NBS for Support Kaspars Zdanovskis explained to the programme that contracts did not clearly state it was not allowed to source these products from Russia and Belarus. Nevertheless, these products will no longer be delivered to NBS cafeteria. Zdanovskis also said he considered adding this specific section in future contracts, adding at the same time that food products did not fall under sanctions.

At the same time, Zdanovskis says the decision to terminate the contract with Lanekss LLC should be made by a court of law.

Lanekss board member Nina Silina explains that since the news report from Panorama in January, when it was reported that the company had supplied armed forces with Russian tea, the company has called off all deals involving goods that could have even the smallest ties to Russia and Belarus. The company has also ceased procuring goods made in Russia and Belarus despite the fact that certain goods are not included on sanction lists.

Latvian Minister of Defence Andris Spruds stresses that Russian and Belarusian goods must not be supplied to Latvia's army.

"We will set up measures to control goods, and suppliers will have to keep in mind severe consequences if they supply goods of inappropriate origin," said Spruds.

The LTV programme reports that the State Regional Development Agency (VRAA), which supervises the Electronic Procurement System (EIS), now needs to work with lawyers in order to see if it is possible to take action against a specific business. The distribution of Russian and Belarusian goods in the state and municipal procurement system is on hold for the moment.

When asked how to resolve this issue and whether Latvia could ban imports of such products, Latvian Prime Minister Evika Silina said this was a decision the entire European Union should make. (BNN/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020240207ek270001n


How Latvia became a buoy for sanction-hit Russians
672 字
2024 年 2 月 19 日 06:24 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2024. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Despite numerous sanction packages in place, Latvia has become Russia's primary whisky supplier and the trade between the countries is booming with economic and geopolitical nuances, dw.com, the website of Deutsche Welle, reported.

Latvia, one of the European Union's smallest member states with a population of fewer than 2mn, has emerged as the number-one supplier of whisky to its heavily sanctioned neighbour Russia.

In the first nine months of last year, Russia imported almost €244mn ($266mn) worth of the amber-coloured spirit.

Of that total, almost three-quarters came from Latvia, according to figures published by the Russian news agency RIA Novosti. In second place came another Baltic country, Lithuania, which sold Russia €27mn worth of whisky.

Latvia, which has a frigid climate and produces negligible amounts of wine compared to viticulture heavyweights, also overtook the world's largest producer, Italy, to become Russia's premier supplier. Italy sold Russia €68mn worth of wine last year, while Latvia exported €73mn worth.

According to the Latvian government's official statistics portal, the country's exports to Russia were worth more than €1.1bn last year, with more than half of that being drinks, spirits and vinegar.

"There seem to be some larger companies from Western European countries that simply use Latvia as a kind of distribution centre," Matiss Mirosnikovs, an economist at the Bank of Latvia, told DW. "So it's not necessarily about production by Latvian industry, but about re-exports."

Veniamin Grabar, head of the Russian spirits import company Ladoga Group, confirmed this in comments to RIA Novosti. "While documents used to say that imports to Russia simply went through Latvia or Lithuania, now the Baltic states appear as the destination of the export, " he told the news agency. "Deliveries to Russia are then made from there."

Not much has changed in terms of actual supply chains, according to the two experts. The same producers are selling to Russia. The only difference is that Latvia is now listed as the country of destination. Companies in the Baltic state then handle the exports to Russia, including the related customs paperwork.

Strictly speaking, these exports do not violate the EU sanctions imposed on Russia after its full-scale invasion of Ukraine two years ago. But clearly, the fact that many Western European companies feel the need to use Latvia as a sort of distribution centre shows they are concerned about their image, Mirosnikovs argues.

For some companies, their survival is at stake. "Certain firms only have Russia and Belarus as customers. So they don't want to, and actually cannot simply halt trade," the economist said.

There is still the ethical question of trading with Russia as it wages war with Ukraine. The London-based Moral Rating Agency, for example, was created following Russia's invasion of Ukraine to track whether companies were adhering to their pledges of leaving the country.

According to them, French company Pernod Ricard, known for brands such as Absolut vodka and Jameson Irish whisky, is one of the largest suppliers of alcoholic beverages to Russia.

Russian media have reported that Pernod Ricard is planning to wind down its business with the country. But the French group said in a press release it would still require several months to do so and that Russian employees would still be paid in the meantime. Pernod Ricard did not respond to DW's request for comment. Neither did other companies selling spirits to Russia.

Since the start of the war, Latvia and Lithuania have been among Kyiv's closest backers. That's what makes the roaring booze trade all the more surprising. For some, it is a difficult square to circle.

The increasing trade in spirits with Russia stands in stark contrast to the Baltic countries' policy in general. Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, which were all formerly part of the Soviet Union and have significant Russian-speaking minorities, have pushed hard for sanctions within the EU, dw.com said.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020240219ek2j000ru


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11320
Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Justina Vaišvilaitė-Braziulienė
7487 字
2024 年 2 月 19 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2024, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11320 (95726) MONDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 19

 

PRESIDENT PROPOSES A STRATEGY TO CONTAIN RUSSIA

 

Vilnius, February 18 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda on Saturday addressed the discussion "Flank-Tastic? Mapping NATO’s Eastern Deterrence and Defence” at the Munich Security Conference, the President’s Office said.

In the debate, the president stressed that we are living in an extremely complex geopolitical period, when Russia is destroying the rule-based international order, using military aggression against sovereign states, committing genocide, and threatening with nuclear war.

According to Nausėda, Vladimir Putin will not give up his imperialist ambitions and his main objective is to seize territories by means of brutal military force and to increase Russia’s influence in the world. The unprovoked and illegal war that Russia has started in Ukraine is just another proof of this.

The Lithuanian leader stressed that Russia actively uses propaganda and disinformation, employs corruption schemes and uses nuclear blackmail to achieve its goals. Putin will not stop unless he is forced to do so, Nausėda said.

In his speech, Nausėda outlined his view on the strategy of active containment of Russia, which is necessary for the Western world to curb Russia’s imperialist ambitions and to ensure long-term and sustainable peace in the world.

"First of all, Russia has to be isolated in the international arena. No shaking hands with a murderer who kills his political opponents. Yes to Putin’s trial in The Hague. Secondly, we need to invest as much as possible in our defence. NATO must be stronger than ever. Thirdly, we must derail the Kremlin regime’s economic capacity to finance the war,” the Lithuanian leader spoke.

President Nausėda stressed that there can be no cooperation with the aggressor country in any area, from technology to culture.

The president also pointed out the need to strengthen NATO’s eastern flank. NATO’s eastern flank is the Alliance’s front line that protects freedom, democracy and a peaceful future for the whole of Europe, and must therefore be particularly strong, Nausėda said.

Deterrence is the most reliable and cheapest way to avoid military conflict. It is important to increase defence spending beyond the minimum 2% and to boost the defence industry as soon as possible.

"We must have a brigade-sized permanently stationed allied forces in the Baltic States and strengthen the region’s air defence. The allocation of the necessary capabilities and regular allied military exercises are a prerequisite for the effective implementation of defence plans,” President Nausėda added.

 

NAUSĖDA MEETS WITH PRESIDENT OF MONTENEGRO IN MUNICH

 

Vilnius, February 18 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda on Saturday held a meeting with President Jakov Milatović of Montenegro in Germany, on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference, the president’s communication group reports.

At the meeting, the president expressed Lithuania’s support for Montenegro’s EU integration aspirations. The enlargement of the EU towards the Western Balkans would strengthen security in Europe, Nausėda said.

"The path of Euro-integration is a long one and requires significant reform efforts. Lithuania has already walked this path and has become an active member of the EU. We support the European aspirations of the Western Balkan countries and are ready to share our experience and best practices. I wish Montenegro to become a member of the EU family as soon as possible,” the president stated.

Nausėda also welcomed Montenegro’s interest in participating in the Three Seas Initiative, which Lithuania currently chairs. The president stressed that the Three Seas Initiative, which will hold its Summit in Vilnius on 11 April, is an excellent format for strengthening regional and transatlantic cooperation in the field of strategic infrastructure, security, business and economic relations.

 

PRESIDENT INVITES NETHERLANDS TO CONTRIBUTE TO AIR DEFENCE

 

Vilnius, February 18 (ELTA) – On Saturday, President Gitanas Nausėda met with Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference, the President’s Office said in a press release.

The president and the Dutch prime minister discussed regional security issues, support for Ukraine, and preparations for the NATO Summit in Washington.

Nausėda thanked the head of the Government of the Netherlands for his country’s contribution to the security of Lithuania and the entire NATO’s eastern flank, as well as for the troops deployed in our country as part of the forward presence.

The president stressed the need to further strengthen the deterrence and forward defence of NATO’s eastern flank by effectively implementing the decisions taken at the NATO Summit in Vilnius. Nausėda invited the Netherlands to contribute to the implementation of the rotational air defence model in Lithuania.

"We currently allocate 2.75% of our GDP to defence and we will further increase this commitment in the near future. We are actively working with Germany to implement the decision to permanently station a German brigade in Lithuania. Investment in defence is the only way to ensure a lasting and sustainable peace. Deterrence is the best and lowest cost defence,” the president spoke at the meeting.

Nausėda also highlighted the need to mobilise the full support of the allies for Ukraine.

According to the Lithuanian president, the forthcoming NATO Summit in Washington needs to demonstrate the progress made since the Vilnius Summit in strengthening collective security. This, the president said, should include Ukraine’s progress towards NATO membership and Sweden’s accession to NATO.

 

LITHUANIAN PRESIDENT, HEAD OF DIPLOMACY REACT TO PASSING OF ALEXEI NAVALNY

 

Vilnius, February 16 (ELTA) – President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda and Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis have reacted to the passing of Russia’s opposition leader Alexei Navalny in a Russian prison on 16 February.

"Alexei Navalny didn’t die in prison, he was killed by the Kremlin’s brutality and its aim to silence the opposition at any cost. Russia’s regime must face consequences. It must be brought to justice,” President Nausėda wrote in a post on social network X, formerly Twitter.

"Navalny’s murder should be the final signal to those who still trust elections in Russia. The West must not recognise elections in Russia and sanction individuals who have contributed to such fate of Navalny,” Landsbergis stated in a comment sent to the news agency ELTA.

 

NAUSĖDA ATTENDS FLAG-RAISING CEREMONY OF THREE BALTIC STATES

 

Vilnius, February 16 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda on Friday in Vilnius attended the flag-raising ceremony of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. The ceremony was held in Simonas Daukantas Square marking Lithuania’s independence, the Day of the Restoration of the State of Lithuania.

"On a day like this, we know that we can achieve anything. If people who love their land and their nation could restore national independence in wartime conditions, then all is possible. If poorly armed defenders of Homeland stopped the Red Hordes, then all is possible,” said the head of state.

"If a war-torn country was able to get back on its feet quickly and join the European family of nations with dignity, then all is possible. May this knowledge encourage us whenever we face difficulties or uncertainty about the future,” Nausėda stated.

 

NAUSĖDA CONGRATULATES LITHUANIA ON INDEPENDENCE DAY

 

Vilnius, February 16 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda on Friday congratulated Lithuanians on the Day of the Restoration of the State of Lithuania. 106 years ago, on 16 February 1918, the Council of Lithuania signed the Act of Independence proclaiming the restoration of the independent State of Lithuania.

"On February 16, we celebrate our State. We celebrate what our forebears created centuries ago, what we create every day, and what we will pass on to future generations. In reaching out to each other, we embrace Lithuania in this communion of our hearts. The strength flowing from the past unites and guides us on the path of civic virtue,” president Nausėda said in a statement.

"On a day like this, we know that there are no insurmountable obstacles or unattainable goals. May this knowledge encourage us whenever we face difficulties or uncertainty about the future. Let us continue to preserve our heritage so that we can walk the world with dignity and freedom. Let us help those who need our assistance. Together, let us build a country that we are proud of now and forever,” said the president.

 

NAUSĖDA MEETS FOREIGN AMBASSADORS, SAYS EUROPE CANNOT BE SEPARATED FROM TRANSATLANTIC LINK WITH US

 

Vilnius, February 15 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda on Thursday, on the eve of Lithuania’s State Restoration Day, held an annual meeting with foreign ambassadors accredited to Lithuania.

Addressing the ambassadors, the president emphasised that Russia remains the most significant and direct threat to Euro-Atlantic security. Russia’s pattern of behavior will not change, he said, therefore we must strengthen our security and defence capabilities, as well as provide comprehensive assistance to Ukraine.

"Empathy and moral support alone are not enough to win this war. Clear strategy and commitment to Ukraine’s victory are needed throughout the international community. (&) To help others, we need to make sure our own security is strong, and our deterrence and defense credible. (&) We must ensure that NATO remains THE strongest,” the president is cited as saying in the press release.

Nausėda thanked Germany and the United States for their firm commitments to the security of Lithuania and the entire region. The Lithuanian leader also thanked other NATO allies for deploying soldiers to Lithuania and for productive defence cooperation.

"Unknowns and uncertainties of political cycles in Europe and across the Atlantic should not become an obstacle to developing our irreplaceable bonds. We must further build a trusted partnership with the US. We need to boost the EU-NATO cooperation. We simply have no other alternatives,” Nausėda stated.

The president also highlighted the key items on the European Union’s agenda for this year, namely the start of membership negotiations with Ukraine and Moldova, long-term financial assistance to Ukraine, continued policy of sanctions against Russia.

 

PARLT SPEAKER CONGRATULATES LITHUANIANS ON THE 16TH OF FEBRUARY, REITERATES SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 16 (ELTA) – As Lithuania marks State Restoration Day on February 16, Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen reiterates her support for Ukraine and urges its people not to give up hope.

"The essence of the Act of February 16th is the restoration of legal personality, the right to decide for oneself, to pick one’s friends and allies. This was true in 1918, and it is no less true in 2024. The essence of the war against Ukraine is the brutal attempt to take away the personality, the right to choose one’s direction and partners,” the parliamentary speaker says in her message of congratulations on the national day.

"With the destruction and killings, the aggressor is almost openly declaring that it will go further. This is an ominous message. We need to hear it, evaluate it adequately and be as prepared as possible. (&) Let us celebrate the statehood, let us not lose hope, calm and vigilance,” said Čmilytė-Nielsen.

Friday marks the 106th anniversary of the restoration of the state in Lithuania. On 16 February 1918, the Council of Lithuania proclaimed the restoration of an independent State of Lithuania in Vilnius.

 

SIXTEEN BONFIRES LIT IN VILNIUS ON INDEPENDENCE DAY

 

Vilnius, February 16 (ELTA) – Bonfires were lit in Vilnius city centre on Friday evening marking Lithuania’s Independence Day or the Day of the Restoration of the State of Lithuania.

Every year, sixteen bonfires are lit to symbolise the 16th of February 1918, the day when the Council of Lithuania adopted the Act of Independence proclaiming the independent state of Lithuania.

Earlier the same day, signatories of the Act of Independence of 1918 were commemorated in Rasos Cemetery in Vilnius.

Later, at the Presidential Palace, President Gitanas Nausėda awarded 89 Lithuanian and 13 foreign citizens for promoting Lithuania. Among those awarded were Ukraine’s First Lady Olena Zelenska and Germany’s Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock.

Flags of the Baltic States – Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia – were raised in Simonas Daukantas Square at noon and Holy Mass was later celebrated in Vilnius Cathedral.

Afterwards, commemoration of 16 February continued at the House of Signatories in Vilnius, where the Act of Independence was signed 106 years ago. On Friday, Vytautas Landsbergis, the first head of state after Lithuania’s restoration of independence in 1990, delivered a speech from the balcony of the House of Signatories.

 

PM MEETS WITH GREEK AND BULGARIAN COUNTERPARTS AT MUNICH SECURITY CONFERENCE

 

Vilnius, February 16 (ELTA) – On Friday, Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė, who is attending the Munich Security Conference, met with Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Bulgarian Prime Minister Nikolay Denkov, said the Office of the Government.

The discussions at the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference focused on security, assistance to Ukraine, bilateral relations, and EU and national issues.

"Lithuania and Greece enjoy close bilateral relations, are reliable NATO allies and close partners in the EU. As Russia continues its brutal war against Ukraine, security remains at the forefront of our common interests. This war is also about the resilience of democracies and their ability to act under pressure and aggression from autocracies,” said Prime Minister Šimonytė during the meeting with Greek Prime Minister Mitsotakis.

As the prime minister pointed out, the pace of support to Ukraine is now critical.

The meeting stressed the importance for NATO Allies to strengthen their defence capabilities in the face of current threats.

The prime minister also discussed issues related to the prevention of illegal migration, highlighting Greece’s valuable experience, especially pertinent for Lithuania amidst the organized illegal migration facilitated by the Belarusian regime.

On Friday, the prime minister also met with Bulgarian Prime Minister Nikolay Denkov.

As Ms Šimonytė pointed out at the meeting, Lithuania and Bulgaria share common goals – the strengthening of NATO’s eastern flank, a secure neighbourhood and a sustainable peace in Europe, which will not be achieved without a Ukrainian victory.

"Unchecked in Ukraine, Russia will remain a threat from the Baltic to the Black Sea, posing a risk to global security,” said the prime minister.

The meeting also covered discussions regarding the Three Seas Initiative and the upcoming Leaders’ Meeting in April, along with the Business Forum scheduled to take place alongside it.

It also addressed regional security and country-specific issues, including Bulgaria’s accession process to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).

Lithuania supports Bulgaria’s membership aspirations and has expressed its readiness to share its accession experience.

On Friday, Prime Minister Šimonytė also took part in a round-table discussion on nuclear deterrence at the Munich Security Conference, spoke to foreign and Lithuanian media, and visited an exhibition commemorating the atrocities of the Russian war against Ukraine.

 

VIGIL FOR NAVALNY HELD IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 16 (ELTA) – Following announcements about the death of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny in a prison in Russia, a vigil was held in Lithuania’s capital Vilnius in his memory.

Navalny, 47, a critic of the Kremlin, had been sentenced to 19 years in prison. He was being held in harsh conditions at the FKU IK-3 penal colony in the Arctic Circle. News about his death was announced on 16 February.

In Vilnius, around 500 people gathered at the Monument to the Victims of the Soviet Occupation in Aukų Street, close to the Museum of Occupations and Freedom Fights. In the past, Russians used the building as a KGB prison and an execution site. People lit candles and laid flowers at the monument.

According to public broadcaster LRT, Russian citizens residing in Lithuania also lit flowers close to the Russian Embassy.

Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė wrote in a post on social network X, formerly Twitter, that "Putin’s regime runs by Stalinist playbook. It will never blink when it comes to killing the opponent – whether abroad or in Russia. My deepest condolences to the family and friends of Alexei Navalny.”

 

LANDSBERGIS TO ATTEND EU’S FOREIGN AFFAIRS COUNCIL

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – On 19 February in Brussels, Lithuania’s Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis will attend the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union (EU), focusing on Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, the situation in the Middle East and the Sahel region, the ministry has said.

Ahead of the second anniversary of Russia’s widespread aggression against Ukraine, ministers will continue to discuss the EU’s security commitments to Ukraine, including military support and further sanctions. Ukraine’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dmytro Kuleba, will attend the Council remotely.

The EU’s foreign ministers will discuss the situation in the Middle East to prevent the further spread of the conflict in the region, cooperation on the delivery of humanitarian aid to Gaza, maritime security and measures to combat terrorism. The ministers will exchange views with the United Nations Senior Humanitarian and Reconstruction Coordinator for Gaza, Sigrid Kaag. The Council will also discuss the latest developments in the Sahel and its engagement with the region.

Before the beginning of the Council, the EU’s foreign ministers will have an informal discussion with the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Rafael Mariano Grossi, at the invitation of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security, Josep Borrell.

 

MORE THAN HALF OF LITHUANIANS OPPOSE NEW DEFENCE TAX – POLL

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – More than 54% of Lithuanians oppose a proposal to introduce a universal defence tax as of 2025, a public opinion poll commissioned by the LRT public broadcaster finds,

Around fifth of the respondents said they would support the idea if the tax were levied on both residents and business.

Among those polled, around 40% said they would approve of a new tax intended to raise defence funding. Around 16% would be in favour of the tax paid if it is paid by businesses only and just 4% would agree with the defence tax paid by natural persons only, i.e. all residents of the country, according to the lrt.lt news website.

Another 6% of respondents, more often non-Lithuanians, said they had no opinion on the matter.

The Baltijos Tyrimai pollster interviewed 1,021 Lithuanian residents (aged 18 and older) in a representative survey from 19 to 29 January 2024.

 

TRANSPORT MIN IN JAPAN TO DISCUSS CLOSER TRANSPORT LINKS, SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE, INVESTMENT IN KLAIPĖDA PORT

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – Minister of Transport and Communications of Lithuania Marius Skuodis on Saturday left for a five-day working visit to Japan, the ministry has said in a press release.

The minister is scheduled to meet with his Japanese counterpart, officials and industry representatives the possibilities of strengthening relations in the fields of transport and logistics.

Together with Algis Latakas, Director General of the Port of Klaipėda, Skuodis will invite Japanese companies to invest more actively in Lithuania and to participate in Klaipėda Port development projects; he is also to speak at an international Business Seminar, organised by Lithuania to present the Three Seas Initiative as well as initiatives for the reconstruction of Ukraine.

The visit is scheduled for 18-22 February and will include Skuodis’ meetings with Tetsuo Saito, Japan’s Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Tadashi Maeda, Governor of the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, Yuji Kamata, Executive Vice President of the Port of Nagoya, representatives of the business organisations Keidanren and Sojitz, the hydrogen refuelling station infrastructure developer JHyM, and others, as well as the Honorary Consul General of Lithuania in Japan, Shigehiro Komaru.

In Tokyo, Skuodis will take part in an international event organised by Lithuania entitled "The Three Seas Initiative: opportunities for regional and global connectivity”, to present the Three Seas Initiative connecting the Baltic, Black and Adriatic Seas and to encourage Japanese investment in strategic transport infrastructure projects in the region.

The minister will present Lithuania’s transport sector and initiatives to improve North-South transport links in Europe, as well as to rebuild Ukraine’s transport infrastructure.

Lithuania currently holds the presidency of the Three Seas Initiative, which brings together 13 European Union countries and the International Transport Forum.

The Lithuanian transport minister also plans to visit the Nagoya and Yokohama seaports and meet the management for talks on opportunities for closer relations in the fields of sustainable port development, increasing cargo through the Port of Klaipėda, digitalisation, innovation and other areas.

Japan is one the world’s largest economies and investors, leading in many transport, industrial and high-tech sectors. In 2022, trade turnover between Lithuania and Japan totalled EUR 191 million. Japan was Lithuania’s 41st largest trading partner.

 

WE URGE NATO ALLIES TO IMPLEMENT AMBITIOUS DEFENCE SPENDING GOALS AND DEVELOP MISSING CAPABILITIES – DEFMIN

 

Vilnius, February 15 (ELTA) – Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas on Thursday attended the NATO defence ministers’ meeting in Brussels held in the run-up to the NATO Summit in Washington.

Lithuania invited NATO Allies to set and implement ambitious defence spending goals and fill in capability gaps, the ministry said.

The ministers focussed on executability of the Alliance defence plans, defence spending and industrial capability development. A record number of NATO Allies are hitting the 2 percent defence spending milestone this year. However, the level of ambition must be raised significantly to reflect the current security situation, according to Anušauskas.

"It is critical to ensure that NATO maintains the quick pace of strengthening the collective defence as agreed with the decisions approved in Madrid and reaffirmed in Vilnius. The NATO Summit which will take place in Washington this summer must ensure the decisions are put into practice and demonstrate the Alliance’s readiness to defend every inch of its territory,” the Lithuanian minister said.

Anušauskas also named Lithuania’s priorities to work on ahead of the summit.

"Our key priority is executability of the regional defence plans. We also need more progress on strengthening the NATO Integrated Air Defense System. We look forward to a practical implementation of the Rotational NATO Air Defence Model,” underscored Anušauskas addressing the Allies.

In Brussels, Lithuania’s defence minister had a bilateral meeting with Supreme Allied Commander Europe General Christopher G. Cavoli on the security situation and the ongoing adaptation of NATO’s collective defence.

Anušauskas also met with Polish, Dutch and Turkish counterparts separately to address bilateral cooperation.  

 

BORDER SERVICE OBSERVES ZERO IRREGULAR CROSSING ATTEMPTS FROM BELARUS

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) says there were no attempts to cross into Lithuania from Belarus unlawfully from 16 to 18 February.

The Latvian border service turned away nine irregular migrants over the three-day period. Poland reported 13 foreign nationals were pushed back after trying to cross from Belarus unlawfully from 16 to 17 February.

This year, Lithuania’s border guards have thwarted attempts by 20 irregular migrants to access the country at unauthorised locations. In 2023, the number was 2,643.

 

STEPUKONIS MAY HAVE LOST PART OF BALTCAP MONEY DUE TO RISKY INVESTMENTS – MEDIA

 

Vilnius, February 15 (ELTA) – BaltCap’s former partner Šarūnas Stepkukonis appears to have spent the money allegedly embezzled from the investment fund not only on gambling, reports Verslo žinios business news website (vz.lt).

Three companies of the fund, Žvirgždaičių energija, Nullus and the Polish company En Efficiency Pl, have submitted new claims of EUR 5.48 million against Stepukonis and Interactive Brokers, a platform for trading securities.

The Vilnius Regional Court on Wednesday upheld the claims and granted interim measures against Stepukonis and Interactive Brokers.

"To our knowledge, part of the funds was used for gambling and another part was used to invest in risky financial instruments through the Interactive Brokers Central Europe online platform. To our knowledge, these funds were lost,” Dovilė Armalytė, a lawyer at TGS Baltic representing BaltCap, told vz.lt.

Stepukonis is suspected of having misappropriated EUR 40 million from the BaltCap Infrastructure Fund. He was detained last week and arrested until 24 February.

The Financial Crime Investigation Service (FNTT) is carrying out the investigation into the embezzlement under the supervision of the European Public Prosecutor’s Office.

 

MAIB HAD A NET PROFIT OF EUR 65MN LAST YEAR

 

Vilnius, February 18 (ELTA) – Moldova-Agroindbank (maib), the largest commercial bank in Moldova, whose one of the shareholders is the leading asset management group in the Baltics Invalda INVL, had an unaudited net profit of 1.25 billion Moldovan leu (MDL) (EUR 65 million) in 2023, which is 10.5% more than in 2022, Invalda INVL said in a press release.

Maib’s net interest income in 2023 was MDL 2.15 billion (EUR 111 million), remaining at exactly the same level as in 2022. Net commission income rose 11.4% in the year to MDL 413 million (EUR 21 million). Other income grew 4.1% to MDL 605 million (EUR 31 million).

The bank’s loan portfolio amounted to MDL 23.9 billion (EUR 1.24 billion) at the end of 2023 and was 4.3% larger than a year earlier. Business loans portfolio contracted 1.5% in the year, while loans to households grew 16.7%.

Customer deposits at maib at the end of 2023 totalled MDL 39 billion (EUR 2 billion), 24.3% more than a year earlier.

"Despite base rate reduction over the year in Moldova from 20% to 4.75%, maib managed to demonstrate resilience and growth. Customer-oriented strategies enabled the expansion of the loan portfolio and payment segment market share, further strengthening its market leader position”, says Vytautas Plunksnis, chairman of the Supervisory Board at maib and Head of Private Equity at INVL Asset Management.

As of the end of December 2023, maib’s assets were MDL 52.3 billion (EUR 2.7 billion), 21.4% more than a year earlier. The bank had a capital adequacy ratio of 24.2% and a liquidity ratio of 280%.

 

LONAS TO OPEN ITS NEW CONCEPT SHOPPING SPACE IN URBAN HUB KAUNAS

 

Kaunas, February 18 (ELTA) – Lonas, the well-known brand of beds, mattresses, and bedroom accessories, will be one of the first to be located in the SBA Group’s commerce and business city Urban HUB in Kaunas district. The team will set up a 465 sqm retail space and a storage area. In addition to this, Lonas plans to invite a partner to join and offer customers design and manufacture furniture for the bedroom, kitchen or living room, reports Urban HUB Kaunas.

"We believe in this project and its long-term success. We do not doubt that more customers will soon discover the convenience of this location,” says Domas Jakutis, CEO of Lonas.

When asked what determined the decision to locate the commercial space at Urban HUB Kaunas, Jakutis lists the positive factors: "The company and the people with whom the long-term lease contract will be signed, their values, the reputation of the location, convenient transport links, parking opportunities, other businesses in the vicinity, colleagues and competitors.”

"Together with the Lonas team, we aim to create comfortable and cosy spaces for the customers coming to Urban HUB. The project allows us to plan the space flexibly, allowing us to offer our customers new concepts and even more convenient shopping solutions. We will soon start fitting out the space and Lonas plans to open the newest showroom this summer,” says Giedrius Muliuolis, CEO of Urban HUB.

According to Jakutis, the SBA Group’s project with the reliable team that developed the project was one of the decisive factors. "The flexibility of the rental plan is also important: we have the freedom to move however we want. We appreciate both the concept of the Urban HUB as a whole in attracting sustainable businesses, and the orientation towards the customer who will not only be able to buy the goods or services they need, but also to spend quality time here,” he adds.

Urban HUB in Kaunas, Lonas, has a planned warehouse and exhibition space of 465 sqm. "We usually deliver large products to buyers with our transport, but in the Urban HUB showroom we will be able to hand over the products to those who want to take them out right here and now,” Jakutis explained. "We will set up the showroom so the selection and delivery of the products on display will be easy and simple for customers. Of course, we will also be able to offer a greater variety of products in the showroom.”

When asked what the most prominent unique feature of the company’s showroom Urban HUB in Kaunas is, Jakutis identifies an advantage that is of particular relevance to the clients: "To offer a broader range of services to our clients, Lonas is inviting a partner to be located on the mezzanine floor and aims to provide our clients with the services of designing and manufacturing of non-standard furniture for a bedroom, kitchen or living room.”

Urban HUB is currently in the middle of the first phase of construction in Kaunas district, next to the A1 Vilnius–Klaipėda and A6 roads, and is expected to be completed in the spring of 2024. The Urban HUB team will offer 70,000 sqm of commercial space for lease in the project, which will be completed in three phases by the end of 2026.

 

LUMINOR BANK HAS SUBMITTED SCIENCE-BASED EMISSION REDUCTION TARGETS FOR SBTI VALIDATION

 

Vilnius, February 17 (ELTA) – As the global air temperature rises due to the increase of emitted emissions, Luminor Bank AS, in continuation to establish strong sustainability standards, has committed to set near-term company-wide emission reduction targets in line with climate science and methodologies provided by Science Based Target initiative (SBTi). The bank has submitted its targets to the SBTi at the end of 2023 and is currently waiting for validation, Luminor said in a press release.

Science Based Targets initiative is dedicated to lead the way to a net-zero economy, boost innovation and drive sustainable growth by setting ambitious emissions reduction targets that would be based on science. Such targets can show different businesses how much and how quickly they need to reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to prevent the worst effects of climate change.

Luminor has decided to join the initiative by submitting the targets in alignment with the 2015 Paris Agreement. The submitted targets cover Luminor Scope 1 (direct), Scope 2 (indirect) and Scope 3 (supplemental) emissions, as well as financed emissions from the bank’s credit portfolio.

For Luminor and comparable institutions, which are motivated to join the global efforts of addressing climate change and its associated risk, it is crucial to establish net-zero targets as it demonstrates strong dedication to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and mitigating the impact of climate change on the environment.

By submitting said targets, Luminor ensures that its emission reduction goals are in line with the latest scientific recommendations, providing a credible and effective roadmap to achieve sustainability. The target establishment process has been a substantial learning curve for the whole organisation. In order to establish the targets, Luminor developed models for industry sectors and interactive transition pathways to understand the feasibility of and to prioritise the levers for achieving the calculated targets. This milestone signifies the bank's proactive stance in contributing to a low-carbon economy, enhancing its environmental responsibility, and staying resilient in the face of evolving climate-related challenges.

In 2021, Luminor has committed in its Sustainability policy to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 by the bank’s own operations and to support the transition to net zero economy of our customers. Our commitment included commitment to set medium term targets to SBTi and to submit these to SBTi for validation by the end of 2023.

 

NOVATURAS EARNS EUR 10.7MN REVENUE IN JANUARY

 

Vilnius, February 17 (ELTA) –  Novaturas Group, the leader in the Baltic tourism market, recorded revenues of EUR 10.7 million in January – the same as in the corresponding period in 2023, the company said in a statement via the stock exchange.

Optimised winter travel offering has enabled the company to achieve significant efficiency in January, with a group-wide load factor of 98% for leisure destinations. The number of customers served was approx. 9.7 thousand, compared to around 10.3 thousand in January last year.

Traditional tourism fairs in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia from the end of January to mid-February boosted the company’s sales for the rest of the winter as well as the volumes of early bookings for the summer season.

For a number of years already, Novaturas has been presenting special travel offers to its customers through a virtual holiday fair on website, which is currently ongoing in all markets of the company. Compared to the regular sales period before the promotions started in January, sales during the fair period have almost tripled.

At the end of February, the company will announce more detailed annual financial results and an interim consolidated financial report.  

 

WALK15 STARTUP ATTRACTS EUR 1MN INVESTMENT

 

Vilnius, February 15 (ELTA) – The sustainable mobility startup Walk15 announces it has attracted an investment of EUR 1 million. This is the second investment in just three months, the company said in a press release on Thursday.

The investment came from venture capital fund Coinvest Capital, the 8NGLS syndicate out of 32 angels led by Justinas Pašys, the CEO of PVcase, a solar energy software developer referred to as the unicorn-to-be, Deividas Trainavičius, and others.

The healthy lifestyle startup, which unites more than 640,000 users and 1,300 businesses and organizations worldwide, will allocate this investment for expansion into the German market – this month Walk15 opened the door of a new office in Berlin.

At the end of last year, Walk15 reached a valuation of EUR 15 million and attracted an investment of EUR 500,000. The investors included Mantas Mikuckas, co-founder of the Lithuanian unicorn Vinted.

The latest Dealroom report data shows that Walk15” has been among the fastest-growing startups in Lithuania in the Rising Star category, while at the end of last year, it also entered the Deloitte Technology Fast 50 Central Europe 2023 as a rapidly growing sustainable startup making an impact on business, society, and the environment.

 

NEO FINANCE REPORTS 184% PROFIT GROWTH IN 2023

 

Vilnius, February 15 (ELTA) – Neo Finance said on Thursday its net profit last year jumped by 184% to EUR 295.5 thousand.

In 2023, the company granted loans totalling EUR 44 million, or 19% more than in a year before.

Neo Finance’s cost of sales increased by 42%, from EUR 1.651 million to EUR 2.34 million. The company’s operating costs went up by 15%, from EUR 1.721 million to EUR 1.986 million.

The company recorded a 70% growth in its EBITDA, rising from EUR 462,603 to EUR 784,957. The pre-tax profit was EUR 370,800, up from EUR 158,608 EUR in 2022.

 

UHB GROUP INVESTS IN NPK FERTILISER PLANT IN UZBEKISTAN

 

Vilnius, February 15 (ELTA) – The UHB group announces it is strengthening the capacity of its latest acquisition – Samarkand NPK factory in Uzbekistan – by acquiring polypropylene fabric equipment from a well-known European manufacturer Klameta as well as big bag production equipment from other countries.

CEO of UHB group Kęstutis Pakalnis says this new line is like a factory within a factory.

"As far as we are aware, none of the NPK fertiliser factories in the Baltic countries have such production capabilities, so we are the pioneers producing everything  – from the fabric to the final product,” he said.

The factory will employ about 100 local employees assisted by managers and specialists from Lithuania.

Currently the new factory is at a 50% capacity and UHB group experience in efficiency and employee training will have the factory operational at 100% capacity within half a year. This means 400,000 units per month.

Around 10% of these big bags will be used by UHB group companies, another 40% will meet the demand of the local market in Uzbekistan and the remaining 50% will be sold to industrial companies in the European Union.

 

SILVESTER BELT TO REPRESENT LITHUANIA AT EUROVISION 2024

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – Silvester Belt was announced Saturday as Lithuania’s entry for the 68th Eurovision Song Contest, to be held in Sweden in May, with his song "Luktelk” (Wait).

The Lithuanian singer will perform in the first semi-final on 7 May in Malmö. If successful, "Luktelk" will be at the finals on 11 May.

Another nine acts in the final national selection event included Aistè, Žalvarinis, Pluie de Cometes, VB gang, Il Senso, Shower, Monika Marija, Queens of Roses and The Roop.

A public vote and jury vote selected top three songs, namely "Simple Joy” by The Roop, "Impossible” by Shower and "Luktelk” by Silvester Belt. The winner of the three was voted by the public only.

Last year in Liverpool, Lithuania’s Monika Linkytė placed 11th with her song Stay. Swedish singer Loreen won the 2023 contest.

The Eurovision Song Contest has been held every year since 1956.

 

LITHUANIA’S MEILUTYTĖ WINS GOLD AT WORLD AQUATICS CHAMPIONSHIPS IN DOHA

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – Lithuanian swimmer Rūta Meilutytė on Sunday won the gold medal at the World Aquatics Championships in Qatar.

Meilutytė became the world champion in the women’s 50 metres breaststroke final. Her time was 29.40 seconds.

It was the third title for the Lithuanian swimmer in the women’s 50 metres breaststroke. Meilutyte previously claimed gold in 2023 and 2022.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Monday, February 19

OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT

8:30

To hold an internal meeting;

14:00

To hold a working meeting.

ministries

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis:

To pay visit to Japan.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis:

To attend the European Union’s Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels.

 

PRESS CONFERENCES

 

9:00

Interior Minister Agnė Bilotaitė and Edgaras Geda, head of Civil Safety at the Fire and Rescue Department, to hold a press conference at the Firefighters Training School to present the latest developments in the field of civil protection, such as the upcoming training for municipal preparedness officers, and a map of the country’s shelters (R. Jankausko 2, Vilnius).

11:00

The Financial Crime Investigation Service (FNTT) to hold a press conference to present the latest developments concerning the ongoing investigation into the misappropriation of BaltCap funds (Šermukšnių 3, Vilnius).

 

BUSINESS

 

10:00

Šiaulių Bankas to hold a remote event to present the Lithuanian Investment Index.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

MPS DISRUPTING RIIGIKOGU PROCEEDINGS CAN BE REMOVED BY POLICE – EXPERT

 

Tallinn, February 15 (ELTA) – If some members of the Riigikogu (Estonian Parliament) obstruct MPs from being able to carry out their work, the speaker and police can remove them, said legal scholar Carri Ginter, the ERR public broadcaster reports.

Yesterday, several EKRE MPs tried to hold up the work of the parliament during a discussion about car tax by playing loud noises through a speaker.

Ginter said these acts can break the law.

"There is a law on the work and rules of procedure of the Riigikogu, which says that order must prevail in the chamber. It is the responsibility of the Speakers to establish these rules,” said Ginter.

 

BALTICCONNECTOR GAS PIPELINE REPAIR WORK STARTS IN MARCH

 

Tallinn, February 15 (ELTA) – Repair work on the Balticconector gas pipeline between Estonia and Finland will begin at sea at the start of March, Elering said on Thursday., the ERR public broadcaster reports.

The connection is expected to restart on April 22, as long as the four-week schedule is stuck too.

If the weather conditions become more difficult, work will be delayed. The current assessment says icy conditions will not prevent work from being carried out.

Elering and the Finnish system operator Gasgrid Finland closed the pipeline on October 8 due to a sudden loss of pressure.

 

LATVIAN LANGUAGE TEST FOR RUSSIANS COMPLIES WITH CONSTITUTION – COURT

 

Riga, February 15 (dpa-ELTA) – Latvian language tests for Russians who wish to reside in the Baltic country on a long-term basis are constitutional, a top court has ruled, the dpa news agency reports.

In its judgement, the Constitutional Court said that the requirement to prove everyday knowledge of the Latvian language in order to obtain a new permanent residence permit was not an undue burden.

Court President Aldis Lavins on Thursday called the language provision a "simple sign of a foreigner’s respect for the country, society and culture of Latvia.”

Under a rule that went into effect on September 1, anyone who has a Russian passport and wishes to continue living legally in Latvia had to apply for a new residency permit and - with few exceptions - prove that their knowledge of Latvian is suitable for everyday life.

Some Russians living in Latvia were angered and took legal action against the requirement, arguing they were being treated unfairly.

Lavins said the court took national security concerns into account when making its ruling.

In view of the geopolitical situation, only foreigners who do not pose a threat to the state and its society can remain in Latvia, he said.

The dispute is centred on changes made to Latvia’s immigration laws in the autumn of 2022 in response to Russia’s all-out invasion of Ukraine.

Latvia, a member of the EU and NATO, borders Russia to the east. People with an ethnic Russian background make up around a quarter of the 1.9 million inhabitants. Most of them arrived during the Soviet era or are descendants.

Many of them – especially older people – are not Latvian citizens, but have the status of "non-citizens,” while others retain a Russian passport.

 

NUMBER OF TOURIST OVERNIGHT STAYS IN LATVIA GROWS 12.1% LAST YEAR

 

Riga, February 15 (ELTA) – According to the data of, in 2023 the number of non-resident and resident visitors in Latvia totalled 2.44 million, which is 12.1% more than in 2022, the Central Statistical Bureau said. However, it is 14.4% less than in 2019 before the pandemic, when 2.85 million visitors were accommodated in establishments.

In 2018 and 2017 the number of visitors accommodated was larger (2.81 million and 2.58 million). Last year the visitors spent 4.4 million nights at the establishments, which is 12.6% more than a year ago.

In 2023 the number of non-resident visitors out of all visitors in accommodation establishments comprised 57% or 1.4 million, which is 22% more than in 2022, however this is still 28.6% less than in 2019. The number of nights spent by non-resident visitors, compared to the previous year, has grown by 22% and comprised 2.6 million. Non-residents on average spent 1.9 nights at the tourist accommodation1.

The majority of non-resident visitors came from Lithuania (257.5 thousand), Estonia (181.5 thousand), Germany (128.1 thousand), Finland (105.8 thousand), United Kingdom (88.7 thousand), Poland (62 thousand), USA (56.4 thousand), Sweden (44 thousand), Ukraine (39.3 thousand) and Norway (37.1 thousand).

In 2023, the number of visitors from neighbouring countries was larger than before the pandemic in 2019 – the number of visitors from Lithuania was 22.9% larger, from Estonia – 6.1% larger.

In 2023, mostly non-resident visitors stayed in Riga (70.6%), Jūrmala (9.2%), Mārupe municipality (3.1%), Liepāja (2.8%), Sigulda municipality (1.9%), Ventspils and Cēsis municipality (each 1.3%).

In 2023 establishments accommodated 1 million Latvian visitors, which is 1.3% more than in 2022, and 15.4% more than in 2019. The number of nights spent by them comprised 1.8 million, which is a rise of 1.3%, compared to the previous year. Resident visitors spent an average of 1.7 nights at tourist accommodation establishments.

Residents mostly stayed in Riga (25.2%), Jūrmala (10.8%), Liepāja (7.1%), Cēsis municipality (4.8%), Sigulda municipality (4.3%), Daugavpils (3.4%) and Valmiera municipality (3%).

In December 2023, 167.1 thousand non-resident and resident visitors were accommodated at tourist accommodation establishments, which is 13% more than in December 2022. Out of them 56.5% or 94.5 thousand were non-resident visitors and 43.5% or 72.6 thousand were resident visitors. As compared to December last year, the number of nights spent by visitors comprised 290 thousand, which is 10.7% more.

In the 4th quarter of 2023, the number of non-resident and resident visitors in Latvian tourist accommodation establishments comprised 498.9 thousand, which is 8% more than in the same period a year ago. Visitors spent 866.4 thousand nights, which, compared to the corresponding period a year ago, is a rise of 4.3%. In the last quarter of the year, compared to the corresponding period of the previous year, the number of non-resident visitors increased by 11.6% and comprised 284.9 thousand, but the number of resident visitors rose by 3.5% and comprised 214 thousand.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020240219ek2j000jh


New EU sanction package against Russia "without much optimism" – Lithuanian formin
BNS/TBT Staff
271 字
2024 年 2 月 19 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2024 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS - As the second anniversary of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine approaches, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis is skeptical about the European Union's new sanction package against Russia.

"Without much optimism," he told Lithuanian journalists on Monday ahead the EU Foreign Affairs Council meeting in Brussels, asked to comment on the new sanction package.

Landsbergis believes the sanction package will be adopted, but "the only question is what kind of package it will be and whether it will be strong".

Reuters reports that almost 200 entities and individuals are to be included in the new package.

"The whole technical discussion that we are involved in is in no way adequate to the situation on the front line where the Ukrainians are left without weapons and ammunition," Landsbergis said. "We are talking about whether we will be able to add a few hundred more people to the additional sanction package. This is important, I don't deny it, but it does not correspond to reality."

Landsbergis reiterated that sanctions against the Kremlin must also be tightened because of the recent death of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, a fierce critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, who died in a Russian prison last week.

"Alexei Navalny is the author of many names that have been put forward to the European Union for sanctions because he had the best information about who is who in Russia," the minister said.

Navalny's widow, Yulia Navalnyaya, is due to meet with European foreign ministers in Brussels on Monday.

Photo: Augustas Didžgalvis[https://media.baltictimes.com/media/photos/160398_72611920265d368cb0d7d4_big.jpg]

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020240219ek2j00003


EU sanctions have limited impact on Russia – Lithuanian president
BNS/TBT Staff
281 字
2024 年 2 月 19 日
The Baltic Times
WBLT
英文
(c) 2024 The Baltic Times. All Rights Reserved.
VILNIUS – The existing EU sanctions have had a limited impact on Russia's economy, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda says, adding that measures to prevent their circumvention need to be tightened.

According to the president, the limited impact is reflected in Russia's macroeconomic indicators.

"We have to admit that those 13 sanction packages – the 13th one has not been implemented yet – have had a very limited impact on Russia's economy as we can see from the country's macro-economic indicators," Nauseda told journalists in Munich on Saturday.

H also stressed the need to tighten controls on ways of circumventing the sanctions as they make the restrictions ineffective.

"We need to deal with the secondary consequences and the ways of circumventing these sanctions, which are so widespread that they practically render the sanctions mechanism itself ineffective and empty," Nauseda said.

He also believes that decisions on how to use the frozen Russian funds for the reconstruction of Ukraine should be made sooner.

"We need faster decision on what to do with those frozen Russian assets that we now have and we do not know what to do with them because we cannot find legal means to use those real assets for the reconstruction of Ukraine," Nauseda said.

Some 1,500 Russian and Belarusian citizens and 207 entities are now subject to the existing EU sanctions that have led to the freezing of 215 billion euro worth of assets in EU member states, as well as the immobilization of around 300 billion euro worth of assets of the Central Bank of Russia in the EU and the G7 countries.

Baltic News Limited

文件 WBLT000020240219ek2j0000a


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11322
President Gitanas Nausėda: Seimas Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Justina Vaišvilaitė-Braziulienė
3230 字
2024 年 2 月 20 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2024, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11322 (95728) TUESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 20

 

PRESIDENT TO MEET DEFMIN, ARMY CHIEF OVER DRONE INDUSTRY PROSPECTS

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda on Tuesday will meet with the national defence minister and chief of defence to discuss prospects of the drone industry in Lithuania.

It will be an introductory meeting, as the president plans to initiate a wider discussion involving businesses in the near future, his advisor Ridas Jasiulionis has said.

A couple of weeks ago, President Nausėda said he was concerned about the state of the drone industry in the country. The president stated he would meet with National Defence Minister Arvydas Anušauskas and Commander of the Armed Forces Gen Valdemaras Rupšys over this matter, or even to convene the State Defence Council (VGT).

The national defence system and the military underestimate the importance of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) for defence, according to the president. He also questioned why the Armed Forces are not approaching business over development of drone capabilities.

Responding to Nausėda’s concerns, Anušauskas assured that his ministry had been talking about plans to develop UAVs even before Russia launched a full-scale war in Ukraine. The Lithuanian Armed Forces have a concept for the development of UAVs and combat drones, the minister said.

In early January, the Seimas Committee on National Security and Defence (NSGK) discussed the development of unmanned aircraft systems in Lithuania. An annual sum of EUR 30 million is earmarked for this purpose, Deputy Defence Minister Žilvinas Tomkus said in the meeting.

 

NAUSĖDA IS FAVOURITE CANDIDATE IN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, VĖGĖLĖ HIS CLOSEST RIVAL – POLL

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – Incumbent President Gitanas Nausėda continues to be seen as favourite candidate in the upcoming presidential election, a poll commissioned by the news agency ELTA that was carried out by the pollster Baltijos tyrimai shows.

The poll conducted on 19-29 January has revealed that 38% of respondents would like to see Nausėda as president for the second term in office after elections of 12 May.

Meanwhile, 10.8% of respondents indicated that they would vote for lawyer Ignas Vėgėlė as president.

The poll was carried out before the Social Democratic Party (LSDP) announced that it would not field its own candidate. Therefore, 9.2% of the polled in January said that they would vote for LSDP leader MEP Vilija Blinkevičiūtė.

Fourth was Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė. In January, 7.4% of respondents said they would vote for her as president. She is the nominee of the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD).

Further on the list are: Farmers and Greens party’s (LVŽS) candidate MP Aurelijus Veryga (3.6%), doctor Eduardas Vaitkus (2.8%), Freedom Party’s candidate, former chairman of the Constitutional Court Dainius Žalimas (2%), Democrats For Lithuania candidate Giedrimas Jeglinskas (1.8%), Labour Party’s leader Andrius Mazuronis (1.8%), former chief of defence Valdas Tutkus (1.7%) and Zenonas Andrulėnas (0.2%).

In addition, 8% of the polled said they would not vote for any of the candidates, whereas 10.9% were still undecided.

A total of 1,021 people aged above 18 were interviewed across 109 polling locations. The margin of error is up to 3.1%.

 

EX-MP WILL NOT BE REGISTERED FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN DUE TO IMPEACHMENT

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – The Central Electoral Commission (VRK) has refused to register former MP Petras Gražulis as an independent participant of the 2024 presidential election campaign due to his recent impeachment and removal from office.

The VRK rejected his application on the grounds that Gražulis did not meet the requirements of the Constitution and the Code on Elections.

The commission noted that a person who has been impeached and removed from parliament could not be elected to the Seimas or as president for the next 10 years since the day the decision was made.

Gražulis was impeached and removed from office in the Seimas in December 2023, with 86 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 4 abstentions.

The party the Nation and Justice Union (Centrists, Nationalists) had nominated him as its presidential candidate.

The party stated afterwards that the politician would appeal against the decision and would ask the VRK to address the Constitutional Court for clarification on whether he could run for president or not.

Presidential election will take place on 12 May.

 

ONE MORE CANDIDATE REGISTERS FOR 2024 LITHUANIAN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – One more person has announced his presidential election bid, reports the Central Electoral Commission (VRK).

"On Monday, the Central Electoral Commission registered Žilvinas Treigys as an independent participant of the political campaign for the upcoming presidential election,” the commission stated.

According to the VRK, Treigys is the fourteenth participant of the presidential election campaign.

Lithuanians will go to the polls on 12 May to elect the next president.

Incumbent President Gitanas Nausėda has already announced that he will be seeking for re-election. He was officially endorsed by the Social Democratic Party (LSDP), which will not field its own candidate.

The Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD) has nominated Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė as its candidate. She was the party’s presidential nominee in 2019, but lost to Nausėda in runoff voting.

The Farmers and Greens Union (LVŽS) will be represented by MP Aurelijus Veryga, former minister of health. The Freedom Party named Dainius Žalimas, former chairman of the Constitutional Court, the party Democrats For Lithuania – Giedrimas Jeglinskas, former assistant to the NATO secretary general, the Labour Party – its leader Andrius Mazuronis.

Independent candidates include lawyer Ignas Vėgėlė, who was endorsed by the party Freedom and Justice and the Christian Union, doctor Eduardas Vaitkus, former chief of defence Valdas Tutkus, Zenonas Andrulėnas, Arūnas Rimkus, Gintautas Kniukšta and MP Remigijus Žemaitaitis.

 

UKRAINE IS FORCED TO KEEP RETREATING DUE TO SHORTAGE OF AMMUNITION – LITHUANIAN FM

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – On Monday, participating in the European Union’s Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels, Lithuania’s Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis warned that Ukraine is experiencing a shortage of shells.

"Due to a shortage of ammunition, Ukraine is forced to keep retreating. Eventually, Europe may encounter threats testing the strength of NATO. This viewpoint should not be called pessimistic – this is already the reality,” said Landsbergis.

Moreover, the head of Lithuania’s diplomacy stressed that the EU must urgently adopt the 13th package of sanctions on Russia and start working on a new one, ensuring that sanction circumvention is prevented and Moscow’s capabilities are further restricted.

 

MFA SUMMONS RUSSIAN DIPLOMAT TO EXPRESS STRONG PROTEST OVER NAVALNY’S DEATH

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – On Monday, 19 February, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania summed a representative of the Russian Embassy in Vilnius and expressed strong protest over the death of the imprisoned Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny several days earlier.

The MFA demands for an extensive and independent investigation to be launched into the circumstances of Navalny’s death, and that his body would be handed over to his relatives immediately.

The Foreign Ministry stated that Vladimir Putin and the Kremlin regime bear full responsibility for Navalny’s death.

The ministry also demands for a release of all the people who have been detained in Russia when they came to pay respects to Navalny.

Lithuania has also expressed strong protest over Moscow’s decision to organise presidential elections on 15-17 March in territories of Ukraine that were temporarily occupied and illegally annexed by Russia.

 

LITHUANIAN AMBASSADOR PRESENTED HIS LETTERS OF CREDENCE TO PRESIDENT OF BULGARIA

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – Last week, ambassador of Lithuania to Romania and Bulgaria, Artūras Žurauskas, presented his letters of credence to president of Bulgaria, Rumen Radev, stated the Foreign Ministry.

After the ceremony, they discussed security and defence issues, Russia’s war against Ukraine, cooperation in the European Union, opportunities to develop mutually beneficial economic relations and bilateral tourism.

Žurauskas is the third ambassador of Lithuania, who resides in Romania and is accredited to Bulgaria.

 

NAUSĖDA’S FAVOURABILITY SLIPS 5%, LANDSBERGIS HOLDS THE LOWEST PUBLIC RATING – POLL

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – The approval ratings of President Gitanas Nausėda have fallen by five percentage points over a month, but he remains one of the leading figures in polls, the latest survey commissioned by ELTA finds.

In January, 74% of respondents viewed Nausėda favourably, while 20% said they disapproved of him.

Despite the decrease in the ratings, Nausėda keeps the lead among the most favourite politicians. Former two-time president Valdas Adamkus is the only who enjoys higher ratings than the incumbent president, with 80% approval and 12% disapproval.

Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis is the most unpopular figure in the polls: 78% of the respondents held an unfavourable opinion of him, with only 17% of people having a favourable view of him.

The list of the most unfavourably viewed figures include Aušrinė Armonaitė, leader of the Freedom Party (75% disapproval, 18% approval), Professor Vytautas Landsbergis (74% disapproval, 19% approval) and Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė (74% disapproval, 20% approval) as well as impeached president Rolandas Paksas (55% disapproval, 25% approval).

Pollster Baltijos Tyrimai noted that neither of the 27 public figures named in this survey saw a rise in approval ratings over the month, since the December 2023 opinion poll.

Baltijos Tyrimai, a joint Lithuanian-British market and public opinion research company, interviewed 1,021 Lithuanian residents (aged 18 and older) at 109 sampling points from 19 to 29 January 2024. The margin of error is 3.1%.

 

MEMBER OF DEMOCRATS FOR LITHUANIA QUITS PARTY OVER ANTISEMITIC STATEMENTS

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – Member of Democrats For Lithuania, Juozas Račiūnas, has resigned his membership in the party over antisemitic statements directed at public activist Daniel Lupshitz, a Lithuanian Jew.

On Monday, Lupshitz shared a private message on Facebook that he had received from Račiūnas. In it, the member of Democrats For Lithuania stated that "the Jews should be shot as the Germans had done” and told Lupshitz to leave Lithuania for Israel.

The head of the party’s administration, Arnoldas Pikžirnis, has informed the news agency ELTA that Račiūnas quit the party soon after he was summoned to a hearing. He left the party by using the system of the Ministry of Justice, which manages data on membership in political parties.

Incidents aimed against the Jews have increased in Lithuania following the attack on Israel by "Hamas” terrorists on 7 October 2023. In early February, a vandal threw a rock breaking glass above the entrance to the building of the Lithuanian Jewish Community (LŽB) in Vilnius. On 13 February, a monument to the victims of a Jewish ghetto was toppled down in Druskininkai.

 

BORDER SERVICE SAYS NO IRREGULAR MIGRANTS TRIED TO CROSS FROM BELARUS IN PAST DAY

 

Vilnius, February 20 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) reports zero attempts to cross into Lithuania from Belarus unlawfully on 19 February.

Meanwhile, Latvia’s border guards turned away six irregular migrants over the past day. Poland had four foreign nationals pushed back on 18 February.

This year, Lithuania’s border guards have thwarted attempts by 20 irregular migrants to access the country at unauthorised locations. In 2023, the number was 2,643.

 

FRAUD CRIMES ON THE RISE – POLICE

 

Vilnius, February 19 (ELTA) – The beginning of 2024 was marked by a spike in the instances of fraud, police spokesman Ramūnas Matonis told public radio LRT on Monday.

According to him, multiple investigations into fraud were launched and law enforcement assume this may be linked to new methods of criminal activities, which the public has not been warned about yet.

"This January was indeed worrying. In January, we had as many as 521 pre-trial investigations [into fraud], compared with just 302 in January last year. (&) There has been an increase, which was recorded for the entirety of January and in the first half of February,” Matonis told LRT on Monday.

The police representative said that throughout 2023 a total of 4,374 pre-trial investigations into fraud were opened.

He said the police have noticed for years that fraud increases in certain intervals. This tendency is observed when criminals discover and start using new fraud schemes. According to Matonis, people are defrauded of substantial amounts of money in 1-3 months before preventive measures are introduced and the public is informed about new types of crime.

He added that now many people fall victim to crime when they use fake investing platforms and due to phishing, when they receive SMS messages with links to fake banking websites and give away their login data, leading to criminals stealing money from their bank accounts

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Tuesday, February 20

Office of the President

10:00

To meet with National Defence Minister Arvydas Anušauskas and Chief of Defence Valdemaras Rupšys on the development and expansion of drone capabilities (Presidential Palace).

9:00

At the Seimas, to meet with Lina Petronienė, chairwoman of the Central Electoral Commission (VRK);

10:00

To meet with Vilnius City Mayor Valdas Benkunskas (Seimas).

 

OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT

 

13:00

To chair a meeting of the Commission for the coordination of preparations for the permanent presence of the German Armed Forces Brigade in the Republic of Lithuania.

ministries

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis:

To pay visit to Japan.

Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas:

9:30

To meet with the chief of defence;

10:30

To attend defence award presentation ceremony.

Minister of Social Security, Science and Sport Gintautas Jakštas:

10:00

To meet with Egidijus Milešinas, chairman of the Education and Science Trade Union;

11:00

To meet with Audrius Klišonis, mayor of Plungė District Municipality.

Minister of the Interior Agnė Bilotaitė:

To pay a working visit to Šakiai district.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

ESTONIAN PRESIDENT SUPPORTS PROPOSED NEW EU DEFENSE COMMISSIONER ROLE – ERR

 

Tallinn, February 19 (ELTA) – Estonia supports the idea of a new European Union commissioner for defence as suggested by EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen last week, said President Alar Karis on Monday, reports public broadcaster ERR.

The position would be created if von der Leyen is re-elected, she said at the weekend. It was also suggested this position should go to a candidate from Central and Eastern Europe.

Karis wrote in an opinion piece published by Politico on Monday: "I support the idea of establishing a defence commissioner position and revising the EU’s defence strategy.”

Karis’ statement of support is also Estonia’s official position, the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Marko Mihkelson said.

 

ESTONIAN PM TO VISIT GERMANY AND MEET WITH CHANCELLOR OLAF SCHOLZ

 

Tallinn, February 19 (ELTA) – Prime Minister of Estonia Kaja Kallas will be in the German city of Hamburg on 20 February, where she will be speaking as the guest of honour at Matthiae-Mahl 2024 and meeting with Chancellor Olaf Scholz, announced the prime minister’s press service.

The head of Government says that allied relations between Estonia and Germany are stronger than they have ever been. "The threat to democracy emanating from the east has boosted our cooperation within the European Union and bilaterally,” Prime Minister Kallas said. "History has taught us that aggressors need to be stopped before it is too late. Together we must provide as much support as we can to Ukraine and take things up a gear in the European defence industry.”

Matthiae-Mahl is a high-level banquet which has been held since 1356. Its guests of honour in recent years have included Jean-Claude Juncker, Justin Trudeau, David Cameron, Helle Thoring-Schmidt and, in 1994, Estonian president Lennart Meri.

 

IT IS CRUCIAL FOR LATVIA TO HAVE LONG-TERM ENERGY STRATEGY – PRESIDENT

 

Riga, February 19 (ELTA) – During a meeting held at the Riga Castle on 19 February, President Edgars Rinkēvičs and Minister of Climate and Energy Kaspars Melnis engaged in discussions regarding revisions of the National Energy and Climate Plan, progress on desynchronisation of electricity grids, as well as the development of renewable energy sources in Latvia.

The discussion also covered the planned programme of work of the Ministry of Climate and Energy in this domain, stated the president’s press service.

During the meeting, the president highlighted the urgency and necessity of having a long-term energy strategy.

"The development of the energy sector in Latvia would be facilitated by a sound and transparent regulatory framework. This is pivotal to ensuring both security and competitiveness of the sector,” said Rinkēvičs.

In line with this objective, the president of Latvia has invited stakeholders to partake in a discussion on the long-term development of the energy sector and policy in Latvia. The discussion is scheduled to take place at the Riga Castle on 1 March this year. The aim of this format is to facilitate an exchange of views and foster mutual understanding between civil servants, legislators, and industry stakeholders regarding the energy strategy until 2050.

Also, the president of Latvia informed the minister regarding the questions received from the wider public, especially during regional working visits, on the subject of tariff systems for electricity and gas consumers. Rinkēvičs stressed the importance of effective communication between the Ministry of Climate and Energy and the wider society regarding long-term national policy in this area.

The president of Latvia also drew the minister’s attention to the concerns expressed by residents of Latvian regions regarding wind energy projects and the need to reach an agreement regarding the allocated compensation for the affected communities and municipalities involved.

 

LATVIA CALLS AGAINST DELAY WITH MUCH-NEEDED SUPPORT TO UKRAINE

 

Riga, February 19 (ELTA) – On 19 February, the European Union (EU) Foreign Affairs Council held a meeting in Brussels, Belgium. Latvia was represented at the meeting by ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary, permanent representative of Latvia to the EU, Lelde Līce-Līcīte, reports the Foreign Ministry.

The Council’s agenda covered the latest developments in the Middle East, the EU’s support to Ukraine in its fight against the Russian aggression, as well as an exchange of views on the EU’s engagement with the Sahel region in Africa.

"In the run-up to the second anniversary since the beginning of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, the EU must advance closer to making pivotal decisions on an uninterrupted military support necessary for Ukraine in the long-term,” emphasised Ambassador Līce-Līcīte.

The EU must agree on the 13th package of restrictive measures by 24 February and continue work on new sanctions against Russia, with a particular focus on preventing the circumvention of sanctions. Latvia would like concrete steps to be taken so that the EU could begin accession negotiations with Ukraine as early as in March. The Ambassador invited EU Member States to join the Latvia-led Drone Coalition.

Latvia, together with Estonia, Lithuania and Poland, called for solidarity and further coordinated EU action; they drew the attention of Member States to the publicly available list of names of politicians of EU countries against whom Russia has initiated politically motivated cases.

During the Council, foreign ministers were addressed by Yulia Navalnaya, wife of Alexei Navalny, a Russian opposition politician who died in prison in Russia. She announced that she would continue her husband’s work in implementing his political agenda and bringing his ideas to life. On this course, EU support would be of particular importance.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020240220ek2k000b5


Parlt prohibits import of agricultural and animal feed products from Russia and Belarus into Latvia
497 字
2024 年 2 月 22 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2024, ELTA News Agency
Riga, February 22 (ELTA) – On Thursday, 22 February, the Saeima adopted amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development prohibiting the import of agricultural and animal feed products from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus for consumption in Latvia, parliament has announced.

Previously Jānis Reirs, chair of the Budget and Finance (Taxation) Committee of the Saeima, which was responsible for the amendments, noted that the amendments were drafted as an alternative to the proposal submitted by a group of MPs.

"MPs had suggested that the prohibition on Russian and Belarussian products be enacted not only in Latvia, but throughout all member states of the European Union. Due to the fact that this would affect the common policy of the European Union, which is beyond our competence, the prohibition on imports shall apply only to consumption of agricultural and animal feed products in Latvia,” Reirs said.

According to the amendments, such products originating in Russia or Belarus shall also not be imported from third countries. The prohibition on imports shall apply to agricultural and animal feed products remaining in Latvia, not those transported to elsewhere within in the European Union (EU).

This initiative is an additional element in the common EU sanction policy enacted in response to Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine. Taking into consideration the fact that Russia’s aggression in Ukraine is continuing, proposals for further sanctions are also being elaborated seeking opportunities to strengthen the existing sanctions, as well as set new ones to restrict income of the aggressor and its ability to perpetrate war in Ukraine – this is noted in the annotation to the amendments.

"Economic security is a crucial aspect of national security and it is an area that has an immense impact on national security. Perpetrating international crimes with impunity and benefiting therefrom goes against the morals of society, ethical standards and our system of values. Consumption of products of Russian origin, thus supporting the criminal regime either directly or indirectly is incompatible with the morals of society,” Reirs explains the need for the amendments.

According to data compiled by the Ministry of Agriculture, over the course of the first 10 months of the previous year, imports of agricultural and animal feed products from Russia into Latvia accounted for 280 million euros. Four main product groups: animal feed, grain, peas and rapeseed oil accounted for 90% of the agricultural products imported into Latvia from Russia.

With the amendments the Saeima has tasked the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt, within two weeks of the amendments coming into force, rules specifying the agricultural and animal feed products, which may not be imported into Latvia from Russia and Belarus. Likewise, the Cabinet of Ministers must also perform an assessment and report to the Saeima by 1 March of next year on the impact of the prohibition on the economy and the interests of society.

ELTA

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020240222ek2m0028l


Latvia stops importing Russian, Belarusian grain, farming products
325 字
2024 年 2 月 22 日 20:40 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2024. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Riga (dpa) - Latvia is banning imports of grain and other agricultural and animal feed products from Russia and Belarus, after a parliamentary vote on Thursday.

The import ban also means goods from Latvia's two neighbouring countries will also no longer be allowed to be imported from third countries. However they may still pass through Latvia in transit.

The amendment to the law is intended to prevent Russia and Belarus and their companies from generating additional income from exporting their products to Latvia, which could be used to finance the war in Ukraine, according to parliament.

"Four main product groups: animal feed, grain, peas and rapeseed oil accounted for 90% of the agricultural products imported into Latvia from Russia," a parliamentary statement said.

The regulation will initially apply until July 1, 2025. It must first be approved by President Edgars Rinkevics.

Once the ban comes into force, the government must submit a list of agricultural and animal feed products that may no longer be imported into Latvia from Russia and Belarus within two weeks.

It must also submit a report on the impact of the import ban on the Latvian economy by March 1, according to the parliamentary release.

Imports of agricultural products from Russia to Latvia totalled ?280 million in the first 10 months of last year, according to data from the Ministry of Agriculture.

The step "is an additional element in the common EU sanction policy enacted in response to Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine," the statement said.

"Taking into consideration the fact that Russia's aggression in Ukraine is continuing, proposals for further sanctions are also being elaborated seeking opportunities to strengthen the existing sanctions, as well as set new ones to restrict income of the aggressor and its ability to perpetrate war in Ukraine."

# Notebook

## Internet links - [Radio report, in Latvian](http://dpaq.de/kqvBV[http://dpaq.de/kqvBV]) - [Parliamentary statement](http://dpaq.de/PlTnE[http://dpaq.de/PlTnE])

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020240222ek2m00cqd


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11328
President Gitanas Nausėda: Seimas Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen: Justina Vaišvilaitė-Braziulienė
3762 字
2024 年 2 月 23 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2024, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11328 (95734) FRIDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 23

 

SEIMAS TO HOST 9TH VILNIUS SECURITY FORUM

 

Vilnius, February 23 (ELTA) – The Parliament is hosting the 9th Vilnius Security Forum on Friday with a focus on NATO’s general deterrence strategy and its challenges.

The Forum will address the prospects for collective defence, the challenges facing the transatlantic security community and the geopolitical situation in Eastern Europe.

"In an ever-changing security landscape marked by geopolitical volatility, the issues surrounding national and international defence have reached unprecedented levels of significance. Recent conflicts involving Russia and Ukraine not only pose threats to Eastern Europe but also carry broad implications for European security, NATO’s pivotal role, and the stability of NATO’s eastern flank,” organisers said in a press release.

The event will be attended by Lieutenant General (ret) Ben Hodges, former Commanding General of US Army Europe (2014-2017), James Townsend, senior fellow for Transatlantic Security Program at Center for a New American Security, Marshall Billingslea, former Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing at the US Department of the Treasury and Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security Affairs, Brigadier General (ret.) Rainer Meyer zum Felde from Institute for Security Police at the University of Kiel, and others.

The Vilnius Security Forum is organised by the Seimas Committee on National Security and Defence in cooperation with the National Defence Foundation.

 

LANDSBERGIS TO ATTEND UN EVENTS ON SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 23 (ELTA) – Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis on Friday will be in New York for the United Nations’ events dedicated to mobilise support of the international community for Ukraine, the ministry reports.

Lithuania’s foreign minister is set to deliver a speech at the UN General Assembly's Special Session on the situation in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and address the UN Security Council on behalf of the three Baltic States in its meeting on peace and security in Ukraine.

During the visit, Landsbergis will discuss assistance to Ukraine with senior officials of the organization and a number of foreign countries.

 

CONSTITUTIONAL COURT WILL CONSIDER IF MINORS MAY BE INFORMED ABOUT LGBT ISSUES

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – The Constitutional Court will elucidate whether the ban on information to minors about same-sex relationships contradicts the Constitution.

"The Court has accepted the Government’s request to evaluate compliance with the Constitution of regulations that stipulate which public information has a detrimental effect on minors,” the Constitutional Court stated in a press release on Thursday.

The Government had addressed the Court earlier in February.

Last year, the Seimas rejected the Government’s amendments to the Law on the Protection of Minors against the Detrimental Effect of Public Information. The amendments were drafted reacting to the case Macatė v. Lithuania at the European Court of Human Rights’. The ECHR ruled that by restricting publication of Macatė’s book Lithuania breached provisions on freedom of expression established in the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The book Gintarinė širdis (Amber Heart) tells stories about discrimination and social exclusion and features homosexual characters.

The Government’s amendments proposed that minors would be allowed to learn about marriage and families other than as described in the Constitution and the Civil Code.

President Gitanas Nausėda stated that adoption of such amendments would mean "a green light to show contempt for families”.

At the end of 2023, the Lithuanian Human Rights Centre (LŽTC) and other non-governmental organisations urged parliament to refer to the Constitutional Court for elucidation concerning the matter.

 

NO IRREGULAR MIGRANTS TRIED TO CROSS FROM BELARUS IN PAST DAY – BORDER SERVICE

 

Vilnius, February 23 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) reports zero attempts to cross into Lithuania from Belarus unlawfully on 22 February.

Latvia’s border service did not record any irregular crossings at its border with Belarus over the past day either. Poland pushed back 26 foreign nationals, who tried to enter the country unlawfully on Wednesday.

This year, Lithuania’s border guards have thwarted attempts by 22 irregular migrants to access the country at unauthorised locations.

 

AMLA WILL NOT BE HEADQUARTERED IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – Minister of Finance Gintarė Skaistė has announced that the European Union’s (EU) Anti-Money Laundering Agency (AMLA) will not be headquartered in Vilnius.

The Council of the European Union and the European Parliament voted on Thursday and Vilnius finished third in the vote, while Frankfurt and Paris advanced to the final stage of the competition for AMLA.

The finance minister wrote in a post on Facebook that Vilnius, the capital of Lithuania, finished in the respectable third position out of nine candidates. She said this was a great opportunity to present the country as a fintech and compliance centre.

The nine candidates included Brussels, Dublin, Frankfurt, Madrid, Paris, Riga, Rome, Vienna and Vilnius.

Both the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament had 27 votes.

Had Vilnius won the competition, AMLA would have been headquartered at the business centre Yellowstone, planned to be opened in the second quarter of 2024.

As reported earlier, AMLA will be the main body ensuring a coherent and unified framework for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in the financial sector at EU level. It is expected that the agency will employ about 400 specialists from all over Europe, and the budget of the institution will reach about EUR 70 million. It is planned that the new agency could start operating in 2024.

 

HANNER WILL DEVELOP RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PROJECT IN POLISH CAPITAL

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – Lithuanian real estate developer Hanner plans to build residential buildings in Poland. The company has signed preliminary agreements for the purchase of a land plot in Warsaw. Investments in the project will reach EUR 24 million.

Hanner Chairman of the Board Arvydas Avulis says that investments in real estate projects in Central Europe meets the company’s strategic development direction. The company sees much potential in this market due to high demand of residential housing in Poland and favourable conditions.

Preliminary contracts have been signed with private land plot sellers and a single 39.4 are land plot is being formed. Hanner plans to finalise the acquisition by the end of February. Construction is expected to begin in the third quarter of 2025.

The company intends to build 180 flats in residential buildings on the Swidnicka Street with the total area of 10,000 m2. Construction is projected to be completed at the end of 2026.

The project is implemented together with Spanish real estate developer Grupo Lar that has 50 years of international experience in real estate. According to Avulis, the project in Warsaw marks the start of partnership between the two companies, whereas within six years, more joint projects in Poland would be implemented and 1,000 flats would be offered to the market.

The latest project in Warsaw is the third one in Poland in which Hanner is investing. In the autumn of 2023, student housing in Krakow was opened. Whereas in December 2023, the company announced investments in a similar project in Warsaw.

In 2024-2028, Hanner plans to invest approximately EUR 50 million in residential housing projects in Poland and EUR 50 million in co-living projects.

 

HILTON TO REPLACE KEMPINSKI HOTEL IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – In May 2024, Curio Collection by Hilton hotel will open its doors at the former historical telegraph building near Vilnius Cathedral Square. Previously, Grand Hotel Kempinski Vilnius operated in the building.

The contract with Kempinski is terminated by mutual accord. Apex Alliance Hotel Management has been selected as the new independent manager of the hotel.

Owner of the hotel, Marius Jakulis Jason, says that when implementing changes and raising the quality of the hotel to a new level, it will be sought to retain and strengthen those aspects, which the guests have loved about it in more than a decade.

Jakulis Jason notes that luxurious 5-star hotels in historical buildings are in the highest demand and now is the time to invest in a new prestigious brand like Curio Collection by Hilton that would enter the local market.

Curio Collection by Hilton is a global portfolio of 160 individually remarkable hotels hand-picked to immerse guests in one-of-a-kind moments in the world’s most sought-after destinations.

 

GRIGEO PROFIT UP BY 154% IN 2023

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – In 2023, Grigeo AB company group achieved the consolidated sales turnover of EUR 195.4 million. It is by EUR 7.9 million less than over respective period of 2022, the company said in a press release.

Over the reporting period, the group earned EUR 29.6 million profit before taxes, which is by EUR 18.0 million more than in the same period in 2022, when profit before taxes was EUR 11.7 million.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) of the group, if compared with 12 months of 2022, increased by EUR 17.6 million and reached EUR 38.9 million.

Grigeo AB company group consists of Grigeo AB, Grigeo Packaging UAB, Grigeo Baltwood UAB, Grigeo Klaipėda AB, Mena Pak AT, Grigeo Recycling UAB, Grigeo Recycling SIA, Grigeo investicijų valdymas UAB, Grigeo Tissue UAB and Grigeo Hygiene UAB.

 

PROSECUTORS ASK TO EXTEND ARREST OF BALTCAP’S FORMER PARTNER

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – Prosecutors have asked the District Court of Vilnius City to extend for one month the arrest of Šarūnas Stepukonis, former partner of BaltCap Infrastructure Fund suspected of misappropriating millions of euros. He was detained on 10 February and placed under arrest until 24 February.

The court’s spokesman, Giedrius Janonis, confirmed to the news agency ELTA that on Friday the court would consider extending Stepukonis’ arrest.

As reported, BaltCap terminated the contract with Stepukonis, then partner of BaltCap Infrastructure Fund, in November 2023 after the fund’s financial directors discovered a misconduct. Stepukonis is suspected of misappropriating EUR 40 million, at least part of which might have been gambled away in a casino.

He was detained in Vilnius on 10 February.

Stepukonis had managed BaltCap Infrastructure Fund’s companies in Lithuania and was chairman of the board of companies in Poland. According to the data of the Register of Legal Entities, in Lithuania he headed the fund’s companies Investicijų uostas, Knowledge Investment, Moelta, Nullus, Safe Community, Urban Revitalisation, Vėjo sesės 1, Venetus Capital, Vilniaus daugiafunkcis kompleksas and Žvirgždaičių energija.

In Poland, he was the chairman of the board of Izim SP, Deuteros Izim Edu, EN Efficiency PL, Protos Izim Edu and Tritos Izim Edu.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Friday, February 23

Office of the President

10:00

To meet with Director of the Special Investigation Service (STT) Linas Pernavas (Presidential Palace).

9:00

To participate in the 2024 Vilnius Security Forum (Seimas);

12:30

To participate in the international forum Your Victory – Our Victory (Seimas).

14:30

To attend the filming of the TV show 24/7.

ministries

Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis:

To attend a meeting of the UN Security Council;

To attend a meeting of the UN General Assembly.

Minister of Agriculture Kęstutis Navickas:

11:30

To attend a meeting of the Seimas Committee on European Affairs.

 

AT THE SEIMAS

 

9:00

The Seimas to host the 2024 Vilnius Security Conference organised by the Seimas Committee on National Security and Defence and the Defence Support Foundation.

12:30

To host the international forum Your Victory – Our Victory.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

Estonian parlt rejected bill to prohibit local election coalitions

Tallinn, February 22 (ELTA) – At Thursday’s sitting, the Riigikogu rejected the Bill intended to prohibit election coalitions from participating in local elections, the Estonian parliament reports.

The Riigikogu rejected at the first reading the Bill on Amendments to the Municipal Council Election Act (287 SE), initiated by the Estonian Conservative People’s Party Group.

It would have prohibited election coalitions from participating in municipal council elections. According to the Bill, it would have been possible to stand as a candidate for a municipal council either in the list of a political party or as an independent candidate.

The Constitutional Committee moved to reject the Bill at the first reading. 45 members of the Riigikogu supported rejection and 11 voted against.

The first reading of the Bill on Amendments to the Local Government Organisation Act (289 SE), initiated by the Estonian Conservative People’s Party Group, was cancelled at Thursday’s sitting due to the absence of the presenter. The Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Internal Rules Act provides that, where the presenter is not present at the deliberation of an item, the chair of the sitting does not open the deliberation of the agenda item and the deliberation is deferred to the following working week.

 

ESTONIAN GOVT APPROVES CIVIL DEFENCE OBJECTIVES AND ACTION PLAN

 

Tallinn, February 22 (ELTA) – The Estonian Government has approved the framework document on the current state of and recommendations for the country’s crisis preparedness and its civil defence action plan for the next four years, the Government said in a statement.

The document sets out the objectives Estonia must meet over the next 10 years in order to guarantee the functioning of the state and the population’s ability to cope in even the most widespread and challenging of crises.

The areas which the state will be developing over the next four years for the purposes of civil defence are the following: boosting people’s crisis awareness and independent readiness; developing emergency warning solutions; fostering the crisis capabilities of local governments; and enhancing continuity of service among agencies involved in dealing with crises.

"Estonia is a great place to live, and a safe place to live, but given what is happening around the world we must be prepared to cope with both environmental and man-made crises,” urged Erkki Tori, director of the National Security and Defence Coordination Unit of the Government Office. "The battle the Ukrainians are facing shows that society has to be capable of functioning even in much bigger crises, which is to say in a war. And to cope with that, as with any other crisis situation, you have to prepare.”

Tori says that in order for civil defence to properly function, people must be able to fend for themselves in a crisis – assisting one another, where necessary – until help arrives. "That way the state can narrow its focus to protecting those who are incapable of defending themselves,” he explained.

Given that as little of 15% of people are fully prepared for such a crisis, Tori says the government has set itself the aim of at least a quarter of the population reaching this level of preparation within the next four years, rising to 40% within the next 10 years. "At the same time, the state will be working to boost its own preparedness,” he added. "Whereas at the moment we would only be capable of supporting 2% of the population in the event of a large-scale evacuation, we want to raise that to 10% over the next 10 years.”

Earlier this year the Government approved a broad-ranging plan for investments in national defence and earmarked a further 32 million euros to be disbursed to agencies within the areas of administration of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs for honing national defence capabilities, including civil defence activities, over the next four years. During that time, rescue work and evacuation capabilities must be enhanced, shelter and emergency warning solutions must be developed, crisis medicine capabilities must be improved, crisis management skills must be fostered at the local government level, supplies must be boosted and the awareness of the population must be raised.

In order to support the development of civil defence, the Estonian Stockpiling Agency was established in 2021 to provide the likes of fuel, medical supplies and food in situations where people and agencies have run out of them or trade has been hindered.

 

WE WILL CONTINUE TO DO EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO FACILITATE UKRAINE’S VICTORY – LATVIAN PARLT SPEAKER

 

Riga, February 22 (ELTA) – Speaker of the Saeima, the parliament of Latvia, Daiga Mieriņa on Thursday presided over the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima dedicated to commemorating two years since the beginning of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, reports parliament’s press service.

"We stand by the people of Ukraine and we will continue to stand by them. Latvia will do everything in its power for a quicker victory for Ukraine,” said Mieriņa on 22 February.

The speaker of the Saeima noted that today is day No. 728 since Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. "Every single day of the war the felonious regime of Russia is taking innocent Ukrainian lives and every single day Russia’s aggression is continuing to undermine the basic principles of European security and the rule of law, which we, the allies, undertake to defend every single day,” Speaker Mieriņa stated.

The speaker of the Saeima emphasised that the allies have done a lot, but not yet everything possible: "With our military support we have helped the defenders of Ukraine liberate a significant part of the occupied territories, thus doing away with the myth of Russia’s invincibility; countless taboos have been broken in regard to military deliveries. Prejudices have been overcome and lines in the sand dissolved, reinforcing ever more Ukraine’s place within the European and Trans-Atlantic security area. Over the course of these two years we have brought our allies closer to our understanding of Trans-Atlantic security,” Speaker Mieriņa said, stressing that the post-war security architecture is to be shaped not with, but against Russia. "Ukraine is not yet a NATO member state, however, today our collective defence starts in Ukraine,” stated the speaker.

"Russia will inevitably experience strategic defeat in Ukraine. It is in our power to not let Russia gain even the slightest tactical victory ahead of its utter defeat,” said the speaker of the Saeima, emphasising the role of Latvia and its closest allies.

Speaker Mieriņa urged that the work already under way ought to be continued, saying that we need to continue to raise our ambitions and tirelessly work to encourage other allies to follow suit. The speaker of the Saeima also highlighted Latvia’s initiative to establish a drone coalition, which aims to provide a million drones to the defenders of Ukraine. "This is a critical capability needed for Ukraine’s victory. This is an initiative for increasing the capacity of the military industry of Europe. And it is Latvia’s commitment, which must raise trust in Europe’s ability to fulfil its commitments. We will continue to do everything possible to facilitate Ukraine’s victory,” Speaker Mieriņa said.

The extraordinary sitting of the Saeima was also addressed by President of Latvia Edgars Rinkēvičs, Prime Minister of Latvia Evika Siliņa and Ruslan Stefanchuk, speaker of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, gave an address remotely.

Speaker Stefanchuk thanked the people of Latvia for their unwavering support and aid from the very beginning of the war. The speaker of the parliament of Ukraine noted that the Saeima was one of the first parliaments to condemn Russia’s full-scale invasion, and adopt other decisions crucial for Ukraine. The support of Latvia and other allies brings Ukraine closer to victory every single day. "This victory will be shared – it will be a victory of freedom, independence and democracy,” Speaker Stefanchuk said.

 

PARLT PROHIBITS IMPORT OF AGRICULTURAL AND ANIMAL FEED PRODUCTS FROM RUSSIA AND BELARUS INTO LATVIA

 

Riga, February 22 (ELTA) – On Thursday, 22 February, the Saeima adopted amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development prohibiting the import of agricultural and animal feed products from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus for consumption in Latvia, parliament has announced.

Previously Jānis Reirs, chair of the Budget and Finance (Taxation) Committee of the Saeima, which was responsible for the amendments, noted that the amendments were drafted as an alternative to the proposal submitted by a group of MPs.

"MPs had suggested that the prohibition on Russian and Belarussian products be enacted not only in Latvia, but throughout all member states of the European Union. Due to the fact that this would affect the common policy of the European Union, which is beyond our competence, the prohibition on imports shall apply only to consumption of agricultural and animal feed products in Latvia,” Reirs said.

According to the amendments, such products originating in Russia or Belarus shall also not be imported from third countries. The prohibition on imports shall apply to agricultural and animal feed products remaining in Latvia, not those transported to elsewhere within in the European Union (EU).

This initiative is an additional element in the common EU sanction policy enacted in response to Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine. Taking into consideration the fact that Russia’s aggression in Ukraine is continuing, proposals for further sanctions are also being elaborated seeking opportunities to strengthen the existing sanctions, as well as set new ones to restrict income of the aggressor and its ability to perpetrate war in Ukraine – this is noted in the annotation to the amendments.

"Economic security is a crucial aspect of national security and it is an area that has an immense impact on national security. Perpetrating international crimes with impunity and benefiting therefrom goes against the morals of society, ethical standards and our system of values. Consumption of products of Russian origin, thus supporting the criminal regime either directly or indirectly is incompatible with the morals of society,” Reirs explains the need for the amendments.

According to data compiled by the Ministry of Agriculture, over the course of the first 10 months of the previous year, imports of agricultural and animal feed products from Russia into Latvia accounted for 280 million euros. Four main product groups: animal feed, grain, peas and rapeseed oil accounted for 90% of the agricultural products imported into Latvia from Russia.

With the amendments the Saeima has tasked the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt, within two weeks of the amendments coming into force, rules specifying the agricultural and animal feed products, which may not be imported into Latvia from Russia and Belarus. Likewise, the Cabinet of Ministers must also perform an assessment and report to the Saeima by 1 March of next year on the impact of the prohibition on the economy and the interests of society.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020240223ek2n000b5


Security service suspects sanction breaches in plywood transport
LSM.lv English, 2024 年 2 月 27 日 06:43 GMT, 205 字, (英文)

搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	拉脱维亚
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	284
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 13:20 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate
