跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Romania condemns Russia for recognizing separatist regions of Ukraine
Romania Press Review Weekly, 2022 年 2 月 21 日, 187 字, (英文)
"Romania strongly condemns Russia's recognition of the Donetsk and Lugansk areas of Ukraine as independent entities.This is a flagrant violation of international law, which must trigger the most severe response from the international ...

Daily News
Romania condemns Russia for recognizing separatist regions of Ukraine
andreich
268 字
2022 年 2 月 22 日
Romania-insider.com
ROMINS
英文
Copyright 2022 Business Insider SRL - All rights reserved
Russia's recognition of the Donetsk and Lugansk areas of Ukraine is a "flagrant violation" of international law, president Klaus Iohannis said.

"Romania strongly condemns Russia's recognition of the Donetsk and Lugansk areas of Ukraine as independent entities. This is a flagrant violation of international law, which must trigger the most severe response from the international community. We strongly support Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity," the Romanian president said.

RO strongly condemns the recognition by Russia of the Donetsk & Luhansk areas of  as independent. This is a blatant violation of international law, which must attract the most severe response of international community. We firmly support sovereignty & territorial integrity.

— Klaus Iohannis (@KlausIohannis) February 21, 2022[https://twitter.com/KlausIohannis/status/1495851114692067333?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Russia is in breach of its obligations as a signatory to the Minsk Accords, "which are thus emptied of content," according to a statement[https://www.presidency.ro/ro/media/declaratia-de-presa-a-presedintelui-romaniei-klaus-iohannis-cu-privire-la-recunoasterea-de-catre-federatia-rusa-a-independentei-entitatilor-separatiste-din-estul-ucrainei] on the presidential administration's website.

"Russia, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, is threatening, through its actions, the global peace and security guaranteed by the UN Security Council itself, deliberately violating the principles of international law set out in the UN Charter and the Helsinki Final Act. The international community must firmly, immediately and unequivocally sanction this irresponsible decision of Russia. Romania also reaffirms in this context the strong support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and will act in coordination with its partners and allies to implement the appropriate response measures," the presidential administration states.

(Photo: Florin Seitan[https://www.dreamstime.com/florinseitan_info] | Dreamstime.com[https://www.dreamstime.com/photos-images/ukraine-separatist-regions.html])

Click to view image[https://cdn.romania-insider.com/cdn/ff/I1AdpmpJyv7nu29o9dCQMyLRcffhUCAo1LS21EpFN7s/1645510407/public/2022-02/ukraine_flag_cracked_wall_by_florin_seitan_dreamstime.jpg]

andrei@romania-insider.com

Business Insider SRL

文件 ROMINS0020220222ei2m00002


The UK's permanent representative to the UN, Dame Barbara Woodward, has told an...
14106 字
2022 年 2 月 22 日 22:49 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The UK's permanent representative to the UN, Dame Barbara Woodward, has told an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council that "Russia has brought us to the brink", as she urged the country to "step back".

Cabinet minister Sajid Javid said: "We are waking up to a very dark day in Europe and it's clear from what we have already seen and found out today that the Russians, President Putin, has decided to attack the sovereignty of Ukraine and its territorial integrity."

The Health Secretary told Sky News: "We have seen that he has recognised these breakaway eastern regions in Ukraine and from the reports we can already tell that he has sent in tanks and troops.

"From that you can conclude that the invasion of Ukraine has begun."

Latvia's foreign minister said sanctions are effective in the long term in response to Vladimir Putin's actions in Ukraine.

Edgars Rinkevics told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "In a short perspective, yes of course - sanctions cannot stop Russia from invading Ukraine or from doing what they did, but in the long term, especially, those sanctions are related to technology transfers, to financial sector, they actually would slow down developmental pressure and that would actually repeat some kind of Soviet Union experience.

"That at one given time in history, Soviet Union simply collapsed."

He called for the UK, EU and US to apply sanctions to oligarchs and key contacts of Mr Putin, increase Nato's presence on Russia's borders from the Baltics to Romania, to support civil society in Russia, and back Ukraine financially and with military equipment.

The sanctions being considered by Boris Johnson will target individuals closely linked to the Kremlin, Sajid Javid said.

The Health Secretary told LBC: "There will be sanctions, the Prime Minister has been clear about that.

"I am sure from what has already been shared by the Prime Minister that individuals that have close contacts with the Russian regime will be targeted, as will certain economic sectors."

Kurt Volker, a former US ambassador to Nato, said Russia's actions in Ukraine have created a "very dire" situation.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Russian leader Vladimir Putin's decision to recognise two regions of Ukraine as independent states "opens the door to a lot of new steps by Russia".

"We've already seen him putting forces into those territories. The portion of Luhansk and Donetsk that Russia occupies are not the entire territory of Luhansk and Donetsk.

"So that also opens the possibility that they will view Ukraine as an occupier of those territories, and then fight to remove Ukrainian forces and take more.

"That in turn could lead to much greater skirmishes and fighting with Ukrainian forces which could easily escalate out of control, so this is a very, very dire time."

He said "devastating sanctions" should be imposed immediately.

General Sir Richard Sherriff, Britain's former top Nato commander, has called the Ukraine situation the most perilous in Europe for decades.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "This is the most dangerous moment in Europe probably at least since 1962 and the Cuban missile crisis, but it could be much worse than that because this is the invasion of a sovereign country which could turn into a catastrophic war with warfare on a scale not seen in Europe since 1945.

"So I think it's difficult to overstate the seriousness of the situation."

He said that while the war would initially be between Ukraine and Russia, the possibility that Nato could get involved is "very real".

He told the programme: "Nato has got to man the ramparts now."

He added that the West has to "assume the worst" when it comes to Russia's nuclear strategy.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has "completely torn up international law" by his actions in Ukraine and there will now be an "immediate package of economic sanctions", Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said.

These sanctions will be aimed not just at entities at regions including Donetsk but also "in Russia itself, targeting Russian economic interests as hard as we can".

He said further details will be given in the House of Commons later today.

Mr Johnson was speaking in Downing Street after a 6.30am meeting of the Cobra committee where he was briefed on the latest intelligence after Mr Putin ordered his troops to carry out "peacekeeping" duty in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.

Boris Johnson has said the "first barrage of UK economic sanctions against Russia" will be revealed today as he warned Vladimir Putin is bent on a "full scale invasion of Ukraine".

After hosting an emergency Cobra meeting, the Prime Minister said: "This is I should stress just the first barrage of UK economic sanctions against Russia because we expect I'm afraid that there is more Russian irrational behaviour to come.

"I'm afraid all the evidence is that President Putin is indeed bent on a full scale invasion of the Ukraine, the overrunning, the subjugation of an independent, sovereign European country and I think, let's be absolutely clear, that will be absolutely catastrophic."

Boris Johnson said the UK will work to ensure that "Putin should fail" if he carries out a full-scale invasion of Kyiv, "which is what he seems to be proposing to do".

The Prime Minister told broadcasters that the UK will continue diplomatic efforts to avert violence but added: "I just want everybody to be in no doubt that if Vladimir Putin continues down this track of violence, of aggression, of a full-scale invasion, of encircling Kyiv itself which is what he seems to be proposing to do, capturing the Ukrainian capital, it is absolutely vital that that effort, that conquest of another European country, should not succeed and that Putin should fail."

Boris Johnson said the UK's sanctions will hit the "economic interests that have been supporting Russia's war machine".

Speaking after a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee, the Prime Minister said: "They will hit Russia very hard and there is a lot more that we are going to do in the event of an invasion.

"Be in no doubt that if Russian companies are prevented from raising capital on the UK financial markets, if we unpeel the facade of Russian ownership of companies, of property, it will start to hurt."

Boris Johnson said there had been a failure to stand up to Russia in 2014 when Crimea was annexed.

"We have got to recognise that we were not tough enough and in the end we didn't do enough, as Europeans, to wean ourselves off Russian hydrocarbons, off Russian oil and gas," the Prime Minister said.

The volatility in gas prices in Europe was a "consequence of that failure", he said.

"We have got to make sure that we cut the umbilicus, we snip the drip feed into our bloodstream from Nord Stream," he added.

Boris Johnson said Russian President Vladimir Putin has "gravely miscalculated" the situation.

"He believes that Ukraine has no real right to exist as a sovereign, independent country," the Prime Minister said.

"But that goes against everything that we struggled to achieve at the end of the Cold War, it goes against the aspirations of the Ukrainian people.

"The most difficult thing now for Vladimir Putin in prosecuting this war... he will come up against something that I think will be very hard for him to beat, and that is the Ukrainian sense of national pride and their determination to defend their country and to fight for it."

Speaking about the crisis in Ukraine at a Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "What we saw through the night was President Putin's declaration that he is going to recognise independent states in the Donbas region, which includes territory which is actually on the other side of the line of control.

"We've seen, in open source reporting, Russian military equipment moving into that region.

"We'll have to verify that given what we know about Russian media performances and truth versus reality.

"These are worrying signs, of course - the clear fact that Russia has broken international law, and I just want to point correspondents to President Putin's speech itself."

Boris Johnson said shifting away from Russian oil and gas would help with energy security.

The Prime Minister said: "In the UK we have been able to reduce our dependency on Russian gas very substantially.

"Only 3% of our gas supplies now come from Russia."

Mr Johnson said the response includes granting licences for UK gas reserves but also shifting to low-carbon energy, including nuclear power.

He added: "The faster this country can be more self-reliant on our own energy, the more prosperous we will be, but also, of course, the more sustainable our energy prices will be, and that will benefit the UK consumer."

Continuing his opening speech at the Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "It's incredibly serious what's happening in Ukraine.

"Many of us were forewarning that President Putin already had an agenda - you heard that agenda in his speech last night.

"This is a sovereign state which has now had some of its land effectively annexed from it.

"This is a sovereign state, a democratic state in Europe. All of us in Europe should worry and not hesitate to take whatever action we need to to deter President Putin from undermining both Nato, but also Europe and, more importantly, our values."

Cabinet minister Sajid Javid compared the Ukraine situation to the Cuban Missile Crisis at the height of the Cold War.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I do think it's as serious a situation as that. There is still an opportunity here for President (Vladimir) Putin to step back, despite him having now chosen confrontation over dialogue. It is not to late for him to step back and bring his troops back into Russia and open dialogue.

"But we have to be realistic - clearly that does not seem his intent, certainly at this point in time, and we have to respond very significantly.

"This is a real test for the West as well."

Ukraine is not a member of Nato, but Mr Javid made clear that if Russia does carry on and invade one of the alliance's eastern states, then there will be war.

"If the territorial integrity of a single Nato member is violated then that is tantamount to declaring war on every member of Nato."

Hungarian airline Wizz Air said it will continue to operate flights between the UK and Ukraine.

It said in a statement: "Wizz Air continues to closely monitor the situation in Ukraine.

"Currently, we have not made any changes to our schedule and all of our flights to/from Ukraine continue to operate as normal.

"All passengers with booked flights to and from Ukraine are advised to regularly check their mailboxes for further information about booked flights."

Speaking about the Ukraine crisis at the Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting on Tuesday, Latvian minister Artis Pabriks said: "They (Russia) will have a small period of reconnaissance and thinking about what the West is doing and what it is planning.

"They will assess the responses, and if these responses aren't strong enough or convincing enough then the next stage will be more incidents on the de facto Ukrainian border.

"This will not be stopped by simply trying to apply for his mercy - it can only be stopped if we mean business and we are ready to engage.

"Our answer should be, 'our dear friend, we are a very peaceful alliance, but we are also ready to go into war for our freedoms. We are not afraid of you. If you want a war, you will get a war'."

The Foreign Office is increasing the support available to help Britons leave Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "The safety and security of British nationals in Ukraine is our top priority.

"All Brits should leave now via commercial routes while they are still available.

"We are bolstering our teams in the region to support British people as they leave and once they have crossed the border."

The deployment of Russian troops to two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine "amounts to renewed invasion of the country", Downing Street said.

But the UK does not currently view the move as a "full-scale invasion", according to the Prime Minister's official spokesman.

Asked for the Government's assessment of what will happen next, he told reporters: "There is no doubt that the deployment of these forces that we've seen reported in sovereign Ukrainian territory amounts to renewed invasion of the country. President Putin has sent his troops in, he's broken international law, he's repudiated the Minsk agreement.

"We believe that Russia's actions overnight could well be a precursor to a full-scale invasion. But clearly, we want to continue to pursue any diplomatic avenues that exist and we'll be speaking to other world leaders, as I say, and urging Russia to step back from this action."

The PM's spokesman went on to say: "I think what is true is that we do not see a full-scale invasion currently taking place. As I say, we have seen the deployment of these forces, which does amount to an invasion in that area. I wouldn't say necessarily it's a two-step process, but we will continue to see if there are ways to get Russia to pull back."

Downing Street said the UK would be prepared to "go further" with sanctions "should Russia choose to proceed with further aggression" towards Ukraine.

Asked if it was time for a "full panoply" of sanctions, or if there was still time for a "graduated approach", Boris Johnson's official spokesman said: "I'm not going to get into full details of what the Prime Minister will rightly set out to the House.

"He said this morning this would be the first barrage of sanctions, which gives you... an idea of what we will be setting out, and obviously we stand ready to go further should Russia choose to proceed with further aggression."

The Foreign Office is sending "rapid deployment teams" to countries neighbouring Ukraine to assist British nationals who cross over the border, Downing Street said.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said teams were being deployed to Poland, Moldova, Lithuania and Slovakia to provide consular support.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman told reporters: "This morning the Foreign Office has summoned the Russian ambassador. The meeting is expected to be taking place about now."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russia's ambassador Andrei Kelin had been summoned "to explain Russia's violation of international law and disregard of Ukraine's sovereignty".

"We are imposing severe sanctions in response," she added.

Mr Kelin was meeting the senior official at the Foreign Office, permanent under-secretary Sir Philip Barton.

Downing Street said the Prime Minister believes it is right to "snip the feed of Nord Stream from our bloodstream".

It comes after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz took the significant step of blocking the certification of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline that would have supplied gas directly from Russia to Germany.

Asked if Boris Johnson was pleased by the move, his official spokesman said: "Yes. I mean, we've seen what the Germans have said on this. And I think, you know, this has been something that the Prime Minister has been calling for for some time, and indeed again this morning - that Europe has to wean itself off Russian hydrocarbons.

"It's a point we've made consistently with regards to Nord Stream 2. As the Prime Minister said, it's right that we snip the feed of Nord Stream from our bloodstream."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of having "flagrantly violated" the Minsk peace agreements by recognising the "supposed independence" of two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine, telling MPs: "In a single inflammatory speech, he denied that Ukraine had any tradition of genuine statehood, claimed that it posed a direct threat to the security of Russia and hurled numerous other false accusations and aspersions."

Mr Johnson said Russian tanks and armed personnel carriers have "since been spotted" in the breakaway regions, adding: "The House should be in no doubt that the deployment of these forces in sovereign Ukrainian territory amounts to a renewed invasion of that country.

"And by denying Ukraine's legitimacy as a state and presenting its very existence as a mortal threat to Russia, Putin is establishing the pretext for a full-scale offensive."

Boris Johnson told MPs: "I think honourable members will struggle to understand or to contemplate how in the year 2022 a national leader might calmly and deliberately plot the destruction of a peaceful neighbour.

"Yet the evidence of his own words suggest that is exactly what President Putin is doing.

"When I said on Saturday that his scheme to subvert and invade Ukraine was already in motion before our eyes, the events of the last 24 hours have sadly shown this to be true.

"We must now brace ourselves for the next possible stages of Putin's plan.

"The violent subversion of areas of eastern Ukraine by Russian operatives and their hirelings followed by a general offensive by the nearly 200,000 Russian troops gathered on the frontiers at peak readiness to attack."

Boris Johnson told MPs: "If the worst happens then a European nation of 44 million men, women and children would become the target of a full-scale war of aggression waged without a shred of justification for the absurd and even mystical reasons that Putin described last night."

In response to President Putin's military action in Ukraine, the Prime Minister told MPs: "Now the UK and our allies will begin to impose the sanctions on Russia that we have already prepared using the new and unprecedent powers granted by this House to sanction Russian individuals and entities of strategic importance to the Kremlin."

Those being sanctioned included five Russian banks and three "very high net worth" individuals.

Boris Johnson added: "Any assets they hold in the UK will be frozen, the individuals concerned will be banned from travelling here and we will prohibit all UK individuals and entities from having any dealings with them.

"This the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do and we hold further sanctions at readiness to be deployed."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the resolve of the UK to defend Nato allies is "absolute" and "immovable".

He told MPs: "Let me emphasise what I believe unites every member of this House with equal determination: the resolve of the United Kingdom to defend our Nato allies is absolute and immovable.

"We've already doubled the size of our deployment in Estonia, where the British Army leads Nato's battle group, and when I met President Levits of Latvia, Prime Minister Kallas of Estonia in Munich on Saturday I told them that we will be willing to send more British forces to help protect our allies if Nato makes such a request.

"We cannot tell what will happen in the days ahead, but we should steel ourselves for a protracted crisis.

"The United Kingdom will meet this challenge side by side with our allies, determined that we will not allow Putin to drag our continent back into a Hobbesian state of nature."

The UK will "not give up" on a diplomatic solution to tension in Ukraine, the Prime Minister said as he announced new sanctions against Russia.

Boris Johnson said: "I will tell the House we will not give up. We will continue to seek a diplomatic solution until the last possible moment.

"But we have to face the possibility that none of our messages has been heeded and that Putin is implacably determined to go further in subjugating and tormenting Ukraine.

"It is because we suspect this much that the UK and our allies repeatedly sounded the alarm about possible new invasions and we disclosed much of what we knew about Russia's military build-up."

Boris Johnson said it is "precisely because the stakes are so high that Putin's venture in Ukraine must fail, must ultimately fail and must be seen to fail".

The Prime Minister added: "That will require the perseverance and the unity and the resolve of the entire western alliance and Britain, the UK, will do everything possible to ensure that that unity is maintained.

"And now, our thoughts should turn to our valued Ukrainian friends, who threatened no one, who asked for nothing except to live in peace and freedom.

"We will keep faith with them in the critical days that lie ahead. And whatever happens, Britain will not waver in our resolve."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said: "We know Putin's playbook. He seeks division. We must stay united."

He told the House of Commons: "Yesterday was a dark day for Europe.

"We must all stand firm in our support for Ukraine. We support the freedom of her people and their right to determine their own future without the gun of an imperialist held to their head.

"There can be no excuses for Russia's actions. There is no justification for this aggression."

He said President Vladimir Putin fears democracy and knows that, given a choice, people will not choose to live under the rule of an "erratic and violent authoritarian".

Sir Keir added: "So we must remain united and true to our values across this House and with our Nato allies. We must show Putin that we will not be divided."

Boris Johnson insisted there is "no chance" of holding football tournaments in a Russia that "invades sovereign countries".

With St Petersburg due to host this season's Uefa Champions League Final, the Prime Minister told MPs: "It's absolutely vital in this critical moment that President Putin understands that what he is doing is going to be a disaster for Russia.

"And it is clear from the response of the world to what he has done already in Donbas that he is going to end up with a Russia that is poorer as a result of the sanctions that the world will implement.

"A Russia that is more isolated, a Russia that has pariah status - no chance of holding football tournaments in a Russia that invades sovereign countries.

"A Russia that is engaged in a bloody and debilitating conflict with a fellow Slav country. What an appalling result for President Putin.

"I hope that he steps back from the brink and does not conduct a full invasion."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer welcomed the sanctions announced by Boris Johnson and the collective international response, but said "we must be prepared to go further".

Sir Keir said he understands the tactic of holding back sanctions to try to deter an invasion of the rest of Ukraine, "but a threshold has already been breached".

He said a sovereign nation "has been invaded in a war of aggression", and "if we do not respond with the full set of sanctions now Putin will once again take away the message that the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs".

He said he would work with the Prime Minister and international allies "to ensure that more sanctions are introduced".

He said Russia should be excluded from financial mechanisms like Swift, trading in Russian sovereign debt should be banned, Russia Today should be prevented from "broadcasting its propaganda around the world", and Nord Stream 2 should be cancelled.

Boris Johnson suggested the UK will consider offering further military support to Ukraine.

He told the Commons: "The UK will continue to offer support to our Ukrainian friends.

"I do think it's been right for us to be out in front in offering military assistance, defensive military assistance to the Ukrainians. I think that has been the right thing to do.

"I spoke last night to President Zelensky, who made further requests, and we will consider them - we're doing everything we can to offer support in the time that we have and we will do that."

Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves tweeted: "Labour stands in solidarity with the Ukrainian people who have shown resilience throughout Putin's aggression.

"This too must be a turning point and mark an end to the UK being a soft touch on oligarchs and illicit finance."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford gave his backing to the sanctions imposed on Russia and said his party stood united with the UK Government.

Mr Blackford added: "We stand with the Ukrainian people who are now under us all. A European country, an ally, is under attack.

"We should be very clear about what is now happening. This is an illegal Russian occupation of Ukraine just as it was in Crimea.

"Russia has effectively annexed another two Ukrainian regions in a blatant breach of international law. This effectively ends the Minsk process.

"It is a further violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.

"No one should even repeat the Russian lie that this is about peacekeeping. This is warmongering, plain and simple."

Conservative former prime minister Theresa May said the world was in the "gravest of times" which shows "we can never take our eyes off Russia".

Mrs May told the Commons: "While the focus today is rightly on protecting Ukrainian independence and territorial integrity, what lies behind this is a wider worldwide trend of authoritarian states trying to impose their way of thinking on others.

"And that the battle in which we must now engage is nothing more or less than the defence of democracy itself."

Boris Johnson said Mrs May was "entirely right", adding: "That is what's at stake and what happens in Ukraine now is being watched around the world, and the echoes will be heard in Taiwan, in east Asia and throughout the world."

In a joint statement, the 10 defence ministers of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) said: "We have reviewed the progress we have made in the development of the JEF as an agile, capable and ready force, and today agreed to undertake a series of integrated military activities across our part of northern Europe - at sea, on land and in the air.

"For example, we will shortly conduct an exercise demonstrating JEF nations' freedom of movement in the Baltic Sea.

"These and subsequent activities will remain preventative and proportionate.

"In acting together, we shall demonstrate the JEF's solidarity, capability and resolve to stand together for security and stability in our region."

The BBC Russian service should receive more funding so Russian people can "hear the truth" about what is happening in Ukraine, the Prime Minister has heard.

In the Commons, Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Tom Tugendhat asked: "May I ask, as we are talking about sanctions today and rightly so, will he commit to a foreign agents registration act?

"We have seen the action of the insidious work of the United Front for China and indeed of different outfits for Russia to undermine our democracy and threaten our way of life.

"Would he please bring in that act? And while he is doing it will he finance much more the Russian service of the BBC so that the Russian people can hear the truth and not the lies that are being spread by their own government?"

The Prime Minister replied: "I think the Russian service of the BBC has done an invaluable job and I think it is very important that it should continue to be financed.

"On his proposal for a foreign agent registration law, we are indeed considering what more we can to do counter threats to this country from within."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy tweeted: "We welcome the sanctions announced today, but we should go further.

"We need to impose a full set of sanctions now. If we do not, Putin will once again take away the message that the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said "we must stand ready with more military support for Ukraine to defend itself and we must stand ready to do more to reassure and reinforce Nato allies in eastern Europe".

Sir Keir said "we must also get our own house in order", adding "we have failed to stop the flow of illicit Russian finance into Britain" and that "Russian money has been allowed to influence our politics".

"We have to admit that mistakes have been made," he said, adding "this must be a turning point, an end to oligarch impunity".

He said Companies House must not provide "easy cover" for shell companies, and that anti-money laundering laws must be enforced, "we need to crack down on spies", and "we have to make sure money isn't pouring into UK politics from abroad".

He also asked what international efforts were going on to pursue diplomacy, saying "even at this late hour we must pursue diplomatic routes to prevent further conflict".

Sir Keir offered the support of the opposition to "do the right thing" and said President Putin "believes the benefits of aggression outweigh the consequences, so we must take a stand".

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said Vladimir Putin should not be allowed to "exploit" events like the Champions League final to legitimise the invasion of Ukraine.

"I have serious concerns about the sporting events due to be held in Russia, such as the Champions League final, and will discuss with the relevant governing bodies," she said.

"We won't allow President Putin to exploit events on the world stage to legitimise his illegal invasion of Ukraine."

Ukraine will have to be given the "means to defend itself" from future aggression or some "sort of security guarantee", Conservative former cabinet minister Liam Fox has said.

The MP for North Somerset told the House of Commons: "Can I say to my right honourable friend, sanctions can only achieve so much when dealing with an undemocratic state and someone like Putin. What we're witnessing is the real-time cannibalisation of a European democratic state bite by bite.

"And ultimately, we will have to ensure that either Ukraine is given the means to defend itself from future aggression or give some sort of security guarantee, or we will find Russian troops on the borders of Poland, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary, which would be an absolute failure of western policy."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson replied: "He's completely right in the sense that we will have to dig in for the long term to support Ukraine in every way that we can, economically, diplomatically, by the provision of military support, in the way that we are already."

Julian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee, called on the Prime Minister to "accept 3% of GDP on defence as a suitable future benchmark".

He asked: "Does (he) accept that too many Nato governments and political parties have accepted energy dependence on Putin and financial dependence on dodgy donations from Russian oligarchs?

"Given that we spent between 4.5 and 5% of GDP on defence throughout the 1980s until the end of the Cold War, will he now accept 3% of GDP on defence as a suitable future benchmark?"

Boris Johnson replied: "Completely right to say that we have failed to wean ourselves off dependence on Russian hydrocarbons since 2014, I think that's been a tragic mistake by European countries.

"In the UK we're in the fortunate position of only having 3% of our gas coming from Russia, but other European countries have learned that they have much more to do.

"By the way, I salute the decision of the German Chancellor Olaf Scholz to cancel Nord Stream 2. I think it's a brave step by Olaf and the right thing to do.

"On his point about defence spending, actually we're up at 2.4% now of GDP, I think one of the very highest in Nato, and we are the second biggest contributor, second biggest military power, in Nato already."

The UK should lead a "new European front against authoritarianism and autocracy" following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a Ukrainian MP has said.

Dmytro Natalukha, chairman of the Ukrainian parliament's economic affairs committee, told a think tank event on Tuesday that the UK was Ukraine's "boldest" ally.

Speaking from Kyiv to an event hosted by the London-based Council on Geostrategy, Mr Natalukha said: "I think that it's time for London to keep up the absolutely squashed European leadership and to become a new leader in Europe and build up a new European front against authoritarianism and autocracy.

"There is a vacuum of power, a vacuum of leadership, in the European continent. That vacuum needs to be filled and I think this potential alliance of London, Kyiv and Warsaw is a very great step towards filling that vacuum."

Speaking at a press conference on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "First of all Russia has already invaded Ukraine - they did it in 2014.

"They occupied illegally Crimea, Donbas, and this is a further invasion of that sovereign territory.

"No-one recognises the legitimacy of the occupation and annexation of Crimea - not even the Chinese have recognised that to date.

"We see this next step into Donbas - the recognition of these republics - not only against international law, but basically breaches, or trashes, of the Minsk Agreements, making it very hard to see a resolution in that space."

Russia's ambassador to the UK was told his country would "pay the price for its actions" after he was summoned to the Foreign Office.

Andrei Kelin was called to meet the Foreign Office's senior civil servant, Sir Philip Barton, on the orders of Liz Truss.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "The UK has urged Russia to explain its recognition of the so-called Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic and the movement of military forces into Ukraine.

"We have summoned the ambassador today to stress that such actions are a violation of international law.

"The UK reiterates its unshakeable commitment to the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine, and insists that Russia immediately withdraw all of its military forces.

"We made clear to the Russian ambassador that Russia would pay the price for its actions through further sanctions if it did not withdraw its troops."

Boris Johnson said "we should not allow our indignation, our rage, at what is happening in Ukraine to spill over into casual Russophobia".

Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi said in the Commons: "I am glad that the Prime Minister is talking tough and taking a strong stand against continued Russian aggression and imperialism, but when will he himself stop playing tennis with Russian oligarchs in exchange for money for the Conservative Party?"

The MP for Slough asked when the Prime Minister will fully implement the recommendations of the Russia report.

Mr Johnson responded by saying the Government is "way out in front of" European partners in what it is doing to implement sanctions on Russian entities.

He said: "Yes, it is absolutely vital that nobody should contribute to a political party in this country unless they are a UK national. And that is something that this Government insists upon.

"But what I don't think we should see, if I may just respectfully say - and I've just been listening to some of the contributions this morning - we should not allow our indignation, our rage, at what is happening in Ukraine to spill over into casual Russophobia.

"I don't want to see us discriminating against Russians as a people or simply on the basis of their nationality."

The way the West responds to Russian troops entering Ukraine will dictate what happens with China and Taiwan, Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith has said.

Sir Iain told MPs: "Should it not be now - and I commend what he has done so far - but should it not be that we need to hit them if we are going to hit them with sanctions hard and hit them now?

"They need to feel the pain of the first part of this decision. The second thing is, what is the ultimatum to them now? If they move further, are we going to take further action?

"And I simply say right now, we are facing the growth of the axis of totalitarian states. China will watch this and look at Taiwan, how we behave now and what we do as an alliance will dictate what happens in the far east."

Boris Johnson replied: "We are hitting them hard now and we will hit them harder in the future with every day that goes by which they violate the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine, we will continue to punish Russia and, in the end, I don't believe that President Putin has thought this through and I do think that he will fail."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace continued: "We have a range of sanctions, we've made them public - we put them before Parliament a few weeks ago.

"We have chosen to use some of those sanctions - that doesn't mean to say we won't use more.

"We are prepared with a whole raft of sanctions.

"We also know that the most important message to send to President Putin is that we are completely unified across Nato, the EU and the US and the UK.

"We must do all of these things in lockstep - that's what we're doing."

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey urged the Prime Minister to "go further".

He said: "Freeze and begin seizing the assets of every single one of Putin's cronies in the UK and then expel these oligarchs from our country as part of a much stronger sanctions regime.

"Second, recognise the existential threat posed by Putin to our Nato allies by immediately cancelling (the Prime Minister's) own decision, his misguided decision, to cut our armed forces by 10,000 troops, and third, no longer tolerate international sporting or cultural events hosted in Russia.

"Can I confirm what I think he implied... that he will push for this year's Champions League final to be moved from St Petersburg? President Putin has made a terrible decision, will the Prime Minister make sure he pays a terrible price?"

Boris Johnson replied: "Yes... we are indeed cracking down on ill-gotten gains in London and on the cronies of Vladimir Putin.

"On his point about sporting events... I think it inconceivable that major international football tournaments can take place in Russia after, as I say, the invasion of a sovereign country."

The Prime Minister faced pressure from Labour and Tory backbenchers to go further with sanctions, as Russia had "already committed the crimes that deserve the most punishment".

Labour former minister Hilary Benn said: "The Prime Minister said... 'there is a lot more that we are going to do in the event of an invasion'. The Prime Minister has just told the House that he regards what happened overnight as a 'renewed invasion of Ukraine'. If that is the Government's view then why is he waiting before imposing full sanctions on Russia now?"

Boris Johnson replied: "I have been very clear that what we have wanted to do is have the biggest possible package of sanctions ready to go in the event of the Russians crossing into more sovereign Ukrainian territory. What we will also do is make sure that the sanctions that we implement are done in concert with our allies. That is what we are doing."

Conservative MP Bernard Jenkin (Harwich) said: "President Putin has already achieved so much of what he has set out to achieve and he may have no intention of launching a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, but he has already committed the crimes that deserve the most punishment from the free world.

"What are we going to do to continue to strengthen Nato, to unify Nato, which is exactly, of course, what he didn't want his policy to achieve?"

Mr Johnson said: "What he has succeeded in doing is greatly to unify Nato and to produce a much bigger commitment not just by the UK but by other European powers to reinforce Nato's eastern frontier."

Vladimir Putin could turn Russia into a "pariah state", Boris Johnson has warned.

In the Commons, the Labour MP for Knowsley, Sir George Howarth, said: "For over a decade Russia has been mounting cyber attacks on our critical national infrastructure and commercial infrastructure. For over a decade and there were no consequences.

"For over a decade Russia has been swirling dirty money around the City of London with no consequences.

"In order for Vladimir Putin to understand that he has now gone too far, he needs to be certain that if sanctions and diplomatic means don't succeed, then there will be consequences. Can the Prime Minister agree with me that those consequences need to be still on the table and Vladimir Putin needs to understand that they will be used?"

Boris Johnson replied: "We need to make it absolutely clear to Russia that as a result of this venture, this ill-conceived and disastrous venture in Ukraine, his country will end up, as I have said, poorer, more encircled by Nato, and engaged in a disastrous conflict with fellow Slavs - and a pariah state.

"That is what President Putin is willing on his people, a pariah state."

The Prime Minister said "it's great that the German Chancellor also now sees the importance" of defence spending, adding he had been campaigning for a long time for Germany "to shoulder more of the defence burden" in Europe and "that's a good thing".

He was responding in the Commons to Conservative former defence minister Johnny Mercer, who welcomed the sanctions but said: "We can't continue to consistently relearn the lessons of the past when it comes to drawing a line and being willing to hold that line military, if so."

The MP for Plymouth Moor View acknowledged defence spending has risen, but said the funding must be tailored to meet the threat, adding: "As the German Chancellor has mentioned this morning, that threat is changing."

He asked the Prime Minister to "keep an eye on that defence spending to make sure that if we are asked we can hold a line and we could lead Nato in the way that I know he wants to".

Boris Johnson said: "We have seen massive increases in our defence spending but we want to make sure that it is targeted on things like tackling cyber, disinformation, all the modern forms of warfare in which Putin also specialises."

Mr Johnson also said the threat "is not just to Europe, the threat from an aggressive and expansionist Russian agenda is everywhere, including in Africa".

Conservative former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt pressed the Prime Minister to increase defence spending and go further on sanctions.

Mr Hunt said he "strongly" supported the "robust" approach taken by the UK Government, adding: "But Putin will have predicted and discounted western sanctions long ago, so does he agree that if we are not to be behind in the diplomatic chess game, we need to do some things that he is not expecting?

"Firstly, a sustained increase in western defence capability and spend, and secondly, a sustained reduction in the ability of the Russian state to finance its own armed forces with economic and financial sanctions that don't last just until the next government decides to have a reset but, if necessary, for as long as this dangerous man remains president of Russia?"

Boris Johnson highlighted increased defence spending in the UK, adding in the Commons: "We will sustain that increase in defence spending and he's absolutely right about the financing of Putin's armed forces.

"The tragedy is that they've been financed from the proceeds of the sale of Russian oil and gas to western European nations and that is what's got to end."

Tobias Ellwood, Conservative chairman of the Defence Committee, said Nato "must not be benched".

He said: "Sanctions alone will not be enough, indeed untargeted sanctions may play into Putin's plan to pivot Russia ever closer to China.

"So would the Prime Minister agree Nato must not be benched?

"It was created to uphold European security and we must now consider how we utilise our formidable hard power deterrence in responding to Ukraine's calls for further help, not excluding the formation of a potential no-fly zone."

Boris Johnson replied: "What Nato is not doing and no Nato country is currently considering is sending combat troops to Ukraine, and he will understand the reasons for that, but that does not preclude support by Nato countries for Ukraine and including military support."

The Prime Minister said in addition to military assistance for eastern European allies, "we also need to share technology, particularly in renewables, to allow them to find a different future" and rely less on Russian energy.

He was responding in the Commons to Conservative former business secretary Andrea Leadsom, who asked for assurance that the Prime Minister was already considering what more could be done to protect allies in eastern Europe "from the inevitable consequences of the risky position we find ourselves in, in the dead of winter, with so much dependence on Russian gas".

Boris Johnson also said: "We need to work together to wean ourselves off, to end the dependency on Russian gas."

Conservative former minister Mark Harper asked for assurances that Boris Johnson will implement "further and stronger measures even if President Putin does no more".

Mr Johnson replied: "I think it's inevitable, given what is happening in Ukraine and on the borders of Ukraine, that we will be coming forward with a much bigger package of sanctions.

"What you have today is an opening barrage that we're doing in common with our friends and allies."

Conservative MP John Baron (Basildon and Billericay) told Mr Johnson: "I hope he takes away from this exchange today the strong cross-party support for tougher sanctions now, because that is what is needed."

He also asked the Prime Minister to consider a "substantial and sustained increase" in defence spending to ensure peace and stability.

Addressing reporters at the Joint Expeditionary Force meeting, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "Ukraine matters because many other countries are watching.

"Our resolve has been tested, as has the ambitions of President Putin's legacy.

"President Putin wants a legacy, it's our duty to make sure he gets a legacy, but not the one he is planning."

Asked if it was too late for diplomacy, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "It's never too late for diplomacy.

"We have spent weeks trying across Europe. President Macron has tried, the Chancellor of Germany has tried, the Prime Minister... has tried.

"He has not been short of people trying to engage both directly with him, and indeed, many of us in this room have tried to engage with a number of our counterparts.

"So it is never too late, but as I've always said, we'll take them at their word and judge them by their actions."

Asked if Vladimir Putin was planning further invasions in eastern Europe, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "The actions we've seen today and last night are absolutely according to his playbook.

"It's according to what he wrote in July last year, and if you want to know what his next intentions are, I recommend you listen to his latest speech, that he made last night, full of huge inaccuracies, one of which was that Ukraine is not a proper state.

"I should remind people, Ukraine has been separate to Russia as a nation longer than it has been part of Russia, that is a simple fact of history.

"He should look at his history books, and not selectively pick dates that suit his narrative."

Addressing reporters at the meeting of the Joint Expeditionary Force in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "First of all we've doubled from battlegroup to two battlegroups and a brigade headquarters into Estonia.

"We've made available 1,000 troops on readiness - they haven't been deployed.

"A lot of that will be done through the Supreme Allied Commander in Nato to make it available to him should he wish to place them in a place that will counter any threat.

"And we're absolutely open to doing even more if required because we need to send that clear signal to President (Vladimir) Putin.

"As I have warned and warned the Kremlin for weeks and months that as we knew in 2014 he gets the opposite of what he wants.

"He will get more forces on his borders, but just as he did in 2014, he will no doubt get more spending on defence from Nato to things that strategically would be the opposite of what he should be potentially wanting to achieve."

Sanctions on five Russian banks and three individuals announced on Tuesday are "impressive", Conservative MP Jonathan Djanogly has said.

Mr Djanogly, who is vice-chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Ukraine, told a think tank event that the West could return Russia "to the economic dark ages" if it chose to do so, but that this would require coordinated action.

He said it was "impressive" that the Prime Minister had announced sanctions so soon after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, saying: "In the past, he would not have done that. He would have come to the dispatch box and said we would be working with our European allies."

He added that ministers had given him the feeling that they were "going to take economic sanctions very seriously" and that there were "signs in recent days of the EU pulling together".

Continuing to speak to reporters in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "Russia's malign activity is global. Only a few days ago, the French announced a withdrawal from Mali because of the presence and establishment of Wagner, the Russian mercenary group, in that country, joining up with the Malian Government.

"Russia is practising significant amounts of intimidation of the Black Sea, Russia is deploying significant amount of submarines and others into the Atlantic, and indeed further abroad.

"Only last year they went to Hawaii with a significant number of ships which hadn't been seen since the Cold War.

"I think what is clear here is that the president has decided he wants to demonstrate a new Russia, in his view, a Russia with new invested arms and equipment.

"We've seen satellite launches - in fact we've seen the destruction of a satellite that even upset the Chinese not so long ago because of the potential damage it can inflict, and I think that's what we should all be concerned about.

"A man who doesn't follow international law, a man who is now has a very large army on the doorstep of a sovereign state and seems to not even worry that the false flags and the fake news we are watching is so obvious, it is sadly almost comical."

Asked why Russia has not been handed the hardest and harshest sanctions yet, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "We already have significant sanctions against both individuals and other entities since 2014.

"Secondly the sanctions we have announced today, including against five Russian banks, are significantly harsh.

"There are still more sanctions in the tank, and the main thing is that we do all this together.

"Sometimes that means we have to move at slightly different paces, but fundamentally we are all following a path, both the United Kingdom, the EU, the United States, that will lead to sanctions being ratcheted up and over time I think that is really important that we do it in step.

"If we don't then I think President (Vladimir) Putin would absolutely try to exploit that to his benefit and that's why we will do this today at the level we are.

"On top of that, I think there's a plan to try and have a leaders' meeting to discuss the next stages of Nato."

President Vladimir Putin is in an "irrational frame of mind" and may not respond logically to sanctions, the Prime Minister has warned.

Labour MP for Chester Christian Matheson said: "I welcome the Prime Minister's statement but look, Russia is a mafia sate. Putin is the godfather, the 'capo di tutti i capi', and he won't change until his 'capos' and his under bosses force him to change, and they won't do that until we pull the financial rug from under their feet. We are in a unique position to do it."

Boris Johnson replied: "We are in a position to impose very considerable economic costs on Putin. The question is whether he is going to care enough about it because he is clearly in an illogical and irrational frame of mind."

Elsewhere, Conservative MP Nickie Aiken (Cities of Westminster and London) said the "children of those Russians connected to the Kremlin who may be in schools in this country should be perhaps sent home to Russia and not be allowed to benefit from education within this country".

The Prime Minister replied: "I think when it comes to children, maybe I think I am not quite there. I think that the sins of the fathers or indeed the mothers should not be visited on their children, in my opinion."

It is "inevitable" that there will be more sanctions against Russia, Boris Johnson has said.

The Prime Minister's comments come as Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokeswoman Layla Moran pressed him on what the trigger for further sanctions will be.

She said: "Five banks, three of Putin's cronies but two of which have already been sanctioned by the US. This isn't us working in concert, this is us already behind. I hear what the Prime Minister has said about more sanctions are to come. Can he be clear with us then, what is the trigger?"

Mr Johnson said: "I think it is inevitable that there will be more sanctions to come because I am afraid I think it's inevitable that Vladimir Putin is going to continue with his flagrant violation of international law. What we are doing today is the first barrage that we are orchestrating in concert with our friends and partners, keeping something in reserve because there must still be the possibility that we can avert an hideous outbreak of bloodshed in Ukraine."

Meanwhile, Conservative MP John Howell (Henley), who is the leader of the UK delegation to the Council of Europe, told the Commons he will be calling later today for "the suspension of Russia from the Council of Europe" and asked for the Prime Minister's support.

Mr Johnson replied: "I wholeheartedly support what he just said."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK will go further on sanctions against Russia if it "does not pull back from the brink" in Ukraine.

In a statement, she said: "This first wave of sanctions will hit oligarchs and banks close to the Kremlin. It sends a clear message that the UK will use our economic heft to inflict pain on Russia and degrade their strategic interests.

"And we are prepared to go much further if Russia does not pull back from the brink. We will curtail the ability of the Russian state and Russian companies to raise funds in our markets, prohibit a range of high tech exports, and further isolate Russian banks from the global economy.

"These will be surgically targeted sanctions that will hit Russia hard."

There could be a spike in gas and oil prices as a consequence of "Putin's venture", Boris Johnson has said.

Conservative former minister Robert Halfon told MPs: "Can I just ask my right honourable friend, what assessment have the Government made of the impact from the war on energy prices, of oil prices and the subsequent impact on people, on people at home, and what measures can the Government mitigate those factors, which, as we know, the war is likely to increase the cost of living for ordinary folk across the country?"

Mr Johnson replied: "He is quite right that one of the risks of Putin's venture is that there could be a spike in gas prices, in oil prices...

"The Government will do everything we can to mitigate it and help the people in this country but it's one of the reasons why the whole of Western Europe has got to end their dependence on Russian oil and gas."

Downing Street has rejected suggestions that the sanctions announced by Britain targeting Russian oligarchs and banks would have little effect.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said the measures set out in the House of Commons would have a "real impact" on the Russian economy.

"This only beginning. This is only the first tranche of sanctions we could introduce," the spokesman said.

"The actions we have take together with our Nato allies do create a much more hostile atmosphere for individuals and for banks and will have a real impact on the economic situation in Russia.

"We believe that these are the right measures to introduce now in the light of the actions taken overnight by President (Vladimir) Putin."

Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said "every indication" is that Russia "continues to plan for a full-scale attack" on Ukraine.

But he said "it's never too late to not attack", and urged Russia to "engage in good faith in diplomatic efforts to find a political solution".

Mr Stoltenberg told a press conference in Brussels: "Every indication is that Russia continues to plan for a full scale attack on Ukraine. We see the ongoing military build up... We see that more and more of the forces are moving out of the camps and are in combat formations and ready to strike.

"And we see the ongoing provocations in Donbas and the different false flag operations where they tried to create a pretext for an attack. And then of course we saw last night that further Russian troops moved into Donbas, into parts of Donetsk and Luhansk.

"And then we have the threatening rhetoric, which was actually confirmed in the speech of President Putin yesterday.

"At the same time, it's never too late. It's never too late to not attack. And that's the reason why we continue to call on Russia to step back, to de-escalate, and to engage in good faith in diplomatic efforts to find a political solution."

President Vladimir Putin has called for the "demilitarisation" of Ukraine to end the current crisis.

Speaking at the news conference in Moscow, the Russian leader said the government in Kyiv needed to give up its hopes of joining Nato.

"This would mean that the Western leaders would not lose face," he said, speaking through an interpreter.

Mr Putin re-iterated his concerns that Ukraine could develop nuclear weapons and said "demilitarisation" was the "only objective controlling factor that we could observe and have a proper reaction to".

He added: "Even the appearance of tactical nuclear weaponry in Ukraine, for us this means a strategic threat."

Britain hopes sanctions will prevent further aggression and persuade Russian troops to withdraw and move away from the Ukrainian border, amid concerns the measures do not offer enough of a deterrence.

Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith, speaking as MPs considered the legislation that enabled the UK Government to introduce tougher sanctions, told the Commons: "The question I want to understand more clearly is are we deterring President (Vladimir) Putin from doing more or is the idea to get President Putin to step back?

"Because I'm not all together clear and therefore that means the force of the sanctions is dictated by what we're trying to do."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly replied: "Our aim is to prevent further aggression, for Russian troops to withdraw from where they have advanced and for them to move away from the Ukrainian border and remove that threat from the Ukrainian people."

Tom Tugendhat, Conservative chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, added: "The ratchet could be misinterpreted as giving a free pass at an early stage rather than drawing a clear line that needs not to be crossed."

Mr Cleverly, in his reply, said: "The pace at which we, in conjunction with our international partners, ratchet up our sanctions response is very much to not just send a message, although sending a message is important, but to actually ensure that these sanctions are meaningfully felt by the Russian leadership and those people around Vladimir Putin funding him and propping him up."

Downing Street said Boris Johnson had spoken to French President Emmanuel Macron about the "chilling developments in Ukraine last night".

In a call on Tuesday afternoon, a No 10 spokesman said: "The Prime Minister updated President Macron on the new sanctions he unveiled against Russia today, and the leaders agreed they needed to continue to work in lockstep to target Russian individuals and entities bankrolling President (Vladimir) Putin's aggressive approach.

"The Prime Minister said that President Putin's actions were a gross violation of international law, and by sending forces into eastern Ukraine he had ripped up the Budapest and Minsk agreements.

"Russia's actions don't just threaten Ukraine's sovereignty, but are a blatant attack on freedom and democracy, the leaders agreed.

"The pair reiterated that together, the UK and France were working to reinforce Europe's borders and defend European security against increasing Russian aggression.

"Both agreed to stay in close contact and speak again in the coming days."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said: "The UK Government's actions are not limited to what the Prime Minister has currently announced."

He added: "We are going to bring forward further legislation to further extend the measures available to us."

He said: "We intend to escalate these sanctions, to ratchet up these sanctions, in response to what has already happened in order to deter further aggression and in order to stimulate (Vladimir) Putin to withdraw the troops from Ukraine."

He said the changes would allow the Government "to impose sanctions on a much broader range of individuals and businesses who are or have been involved in... obtaining a benefit from, or supporting, the government of Russia" and would allow sanctions on a "huge scope of individuals and entities", adding: "Should Russian stage any further invasion into Ukraine, we will not hesitate to implement comprehensive and unprecedented additional packages of sanctions in close coordination with our allies around the world."

He added: "These measures will curtail the ability of the Russian state, Russian companies, Russian individuals, to raise funds on our markets and further isolate Russian banks. We will keep ratcheting up the pressure targeting more banks, more individuals, more companies, that are significant to the Kremlin."

He added: "Vladimir Putin has chosen a path of international isolation. The measures that my right honourable friend the Prime Minister announced today demonstrate that they will bare a cost for doing so, and if they do not step back these measures will only increase."

European Union countries have agreed unanimously to adopt a package of sanctions against Russia, the EU's foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell has said.

In a press conference, Mr Borrell said it was a "particularly dangerous moment for Europe" and Russia's actions were a "clear escalation of the Russian aggression against Ukraine".

Mr Borrell said that 351 members of the Russian State Duma who "voted (for) this violation of international law" would be sanctioned, as well as "27 individuals and entities who are playing a role in undermining or threatening Ukrainian territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence".

These included "banks that are financing Russia" and "those who waged this information war against Ukraine". He added the bloc would also "target the ability of the Russian state and government to access to our capital and financial markets and services".

He said: "We reached an agreement between the 27 member states - a unanimous agreement to adopt a package of sanctions."

He added that the package would "hurt Russia, and it will hurt a lot".

Oligarchs close to President Vladimir Putin will find it "too easy" to avoid the impact of sanctions, Labour has said.

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy told MPs his party has "major concerns" and suggestions on how the Government could "go further" on sanctions against Russia.

He said: "Firstly, concerns have been expressed to us that in the way that legislation is currently drafted, oligarchs who are close to Putin will find it too easy to avoid the impact of the measures. They may not hold a formal role in a sanctioned bank or company, but may exert significant control behind the scenes.

"The effects of this would be that some of the most influential and notorious oligarchs, oligarchs who are close to Vladimir Putin, and have purposely structured their enterprises to avoid the appearance of majority ownership and control would go untouched."

Mr Lammy insisted this is a "crucial mistake" as President Putin "couldn't care about sanctions laid against his country or the Russian people", instead, "the only sanctions he really cares about are those against the richest people close to him".

The shadow foreign secretary added: "We believe that we must go further now. Only five banks and three individuals are facing sanctions as a result of UK government's actions today. This is not big enough punishment for the blatant breach of international law that has already been made. And let us not be too slow to act and fall behind our international partners."

The first deputy chairman of the Russian State Duma's committee on international affairs said sanctions imposed on Tuesday by Boris Johnson in light of the Ukraine crisis would have "zero" effect.

Vyacheslav Nikonov told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "What would be the result of sanctions like they're introduced today by Boris Johnson? Zero, it's nothing. It's sanctioned about three oligarchs and five... small banks. You know, this is a laughable affair, of course.

"We expected something more serious, like switching from... Swift, or cancelling the (buyers) of gas and so on."

The Conservative chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee pressed the Government on why they did not go further on sanctions against Russia.

Tom Tugendhat said: "I welcome the direction that we've taken, but I find myself, I'm afraid along with many others on all sides of this House, asking why not more? Why not further?

"Because what we're doing now is we are in many ways using the actions of a hostile state in eastern Ukraine to justify something that we should have done years ago. The UK sadly has for too long been an avenue for money laundering, for despots and criminals around the world. For too long, we have seen our institutions, our City, our service sector, used to hide the games of corrupt practices abroad and indeed sadly on too many occasions of criminality."

He added: "What he (President Putin) is doing to us, to the people of these islands, is he is unpicking the values and principles that our grandparents fought for 80 years ago. He is unpicking the principle that we embedded into the Constitution of the United Nations, of the Council of Europe. He is unpicking the principle of the rule of law that the debate amongst sovereign peoples should be the way that disputes are settled in this world, and he is replacing the rule of law for the rule of force.

"Sadly, he's demonstrating that not only does it work on the ground, but it also works in the wallet. He's demonstrating that a leader can profit politically and personally from the abuses that he conducts against his own people and his neighbours."

Conservative former party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith said: "We can do, we should do and we must do more to root out the dirty money that flows through here."

He added: "I really do believe the Government has to take this many notches further and hit them very hard. Yes, with the cleaning out of some of the Augean stables in the financial services area, but secondly also we need to go on grander, more supra national sanctions, working with our allies, absolutely to cut off supplies of money, such that the Russians cannot and President Putin cannot find a way through this and they feel the pain. We must hear them squeal when we hit them with these sanctions."

Sir Iain warned: "We must move, we must move hard, we must move now and we must make them squeal, if we do not do that then we will have failed."

SNP's foreign affairs spokesman Alyn Smith said: "It's weak tea, it's not nothing, but it's not much."

He added: "This is really small beer and I cannot understand it, the UK seems to be casting about for somebody else's leadership because I really don't detect much in the actions and announcements that we've heard today."

Labour's Chris Bryant (Rhondda) said: "We've been pitiful, we've been puny, we've vacillated, we've been spineless and quite often we've looked as if we're craven because we just want Russian money."

He added: "I am angered by the naivety that I sometimes see in this country, I've seen it often in this chamber and I see it too from the Left."

He went on: "Of course I support the statutory instrument, I'm glad we're doing this, but today's sanctions the ones that have been announced today which rely on this, are wholly inadequate."

Conservative former cabinet minister Robert Jenrick said the UK should be taking action "hard now", explaining: "That is what a dictator like (Vladimir) Putin can understand.

"Deterrence by way of sanctions thus far has failed. It's probably likely to fail. It does have value, however, it does show resolve, it does inflict cost on Russia and if we're going to do that why wouldn't we do it strong now?

"I don't understand why we would be suggesting that we would be bringing forward the other measures that I know the Government is considering only in the event that Russia makes further incursions into Ukraine or further serious egregious assaults upon Ukraine or other allies within the region."

Mr Jenrick said he could see Foreign Office minister James Cleverly shaking his head at this suggestion, adding he could understand it if the Government needs further time to develop harsher measures or wants to introduce them at the same time as their allies.

He also told the Commons: "My suggestion to the Government would be to bring forward further measures as quickly as possible, preferably in concert with our allies."

Bob Seely, Conservative MP for Isle of Wight, said "it's quite clear that deterrence has failed" before adding: "I make criticism of policy over the past 10, 15 years, this is too little, too late."

Conservative MP and a former United Nations commander who led peacekeeping forces in Bosnia, Bob Stewart (Beckenham), said: "Mr (Vladimir) Putin may well have won. He may well have won because we've not reacted hard enough.

"Small banks sanctioned, but actually not real sanctions. So he'll be sitting there tonight in Moscow thinking 'I've just got to sit this one out and the gains we've got I will be able to play up extremely well to the Russian people'. We are really in dangerous ground by our weakness."

Conservative MP Jonathan Djanogly (Huntingdon) said thousands of Russians live in the UK, and many are not supportive of President Putin's regime and "many Russians here are here to escape the clutches of Putin's regime".

He said: "For those Russians here I would urge caution and due process in the way that they are treated, because just throwing them all in prison, for instance, as the UK did with all German residents in the beginning of World War Two, is not going to work, or indeed enhance our own democratic reputation.

"On the other hand, there does come a tipping point towards war when individual interests are to some degree going to be affected or subsumed by just being a citizen of the country concerned.

"It seems that these regulations are effectively preparing the ground for this to happen. I support these proposals, and feel that ultimately in the circumstances presented they are appropriate."

Liberal Democrat Layla Moran said: "While so far we may have talked the talk, I'm afraid to say today's list of sanctions were gruel. I don't think that they've done anything. I don't even think there is a line in the sand there."

The MP for Oxford West and Abingdon told the Commons she welcomed the sanctions but she wants the Government "to do so much more than it's done today".

She spoke of the need to tackle "Putin's cronies" and also used her parliamentary privilege to name 35 people she said were on a list of "key enablers" compiled by Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny and his team over a year ago.

US President Joe Biden has announced his own sanctions against Russia.

In a statement from the White House, Mr Biden said the measures were only the "first tranche" and he would "escalate sanctions if Russia escalates".

He said: "We're implementing full blocking sanctions on two large Russian financial institutions, VEB and their military bank.

"We're implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russian sovereign debt. That means we've cut off Russia's government from Western financing, it can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either."

He said: "Starting tomorrow and continuing in the days ahead we will also impose sanctions on Russia's elites and their family members. They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share in the pain as well."

Mr Biden said the US had worked with Germany in the halting of Nordstream 2, and he added: "As Russia contemplates its next move, we have our next move prepared as well. Russia will pay an even steeper price if it continues its aggression, including additional sanctions."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said sanctions will be ratcheted up because of "what has already happened" and not just in response to "what might happen in the future".

Speaking in the Commons, Mr Cleverly told MPs: "I can confidently inform the House that they are demanding of the Government something which the Government is absolutely determined to do. You are pushing at an open door."

The Foreign Office minister added: "The question that was asked is, 'are these sanctions only going to be escalated in response to further aggression?'

"I can assure this House that these sanctions will be ratcheted up because of what has already happened, not just in response to what might happen in the future. Our intention, as I say, is to prevent even further invasion of Ukraine, to have those troops that are currently in Ukraine removed and then have them returned to their own barracks once they are back in Russia."

US President Joe Biden said the US would also continue to provide "defensive assistance" to Ukraine, and he had authorised the movement of US forces to other Baltic states.

He told a press briefing: "In response to Russia's admission that it will not withdraw its forces from Belarus, I have authorised additional movements of US forces and equipment already stationed in Europe to strengthen our Baltic allies - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.

"Let me be clear, these are totally defensive moves on our part. We have no intention of fighting Russia.

"We want to send an unmistakable message though, that the United States together with our allies will defend every inch of Nato territory and abide by the commitments we made into Nato."

Joe Biden said he expected the Kremlin to start a war and that "none of us should be fooled".

The US President told reporters: "We still believe that Russia is poised to go much further in launching a massive military attack against Ukraine."

He said: "There are still well over 150,000 Russian troops surrounding Ukraine, and as I said, Russian forces remain positioned to Belarus to attack Ukraine from the north, including warplanes and offensive missile systems.

"Russia's moved troops closer to Ukraine's border with Russia.

"Russia's naval vessels are manoeuvring in the Black Sea to Ukraine's south including amphibious assault ships, missile cruisers, and submarines.

"Russia has moved supplies of blood and medical equipment into position on their border. You don't need blood unless you plan on starting a war."

(Corrected repetition, amends incorrect word in par four)

President Joe Biden has said the world has heard "the full extent of Vladimir Putin's twisted rewrite of history" but added the US is still "open to diplomacy".

Speaking at a White House briefing on the Ukraine crisis, said he had been in "constant contact" with European leaders on how to respond "in unison" to any threat from Russia.

"Yesterday the world heard clearly the full extent of Vladimir Putin's twisted rewrite of history," he said.

"Nothing in Putin's remarks indicate any interest in pursuing real dialogue in European security in the year 2022. He directly attacked Ukraine's right to exist."

However, Mr Biden added that there was still a chance to "avert the worst-case scenario" which would "bring untold suffering to millions of people".

"The United States and our allies remain open to diplomacy, if it is serious," Mr Biden said. "But when all is said and done, we're going to judge Russia by its actions, not its words, and whatever Russia does next we're ready to respond with unity, clarity and conviction."

Speaking in Parliament, former Nato secretary-general Lord Robertson of Port Ellen said he backed the Government and "the resolution of the West against this unprovoked attack on an individual nation state".

He said: "It is outrageous and we are at a very dangerous point in European history."

The Labour former defence secretary told the House of Lords: "Can I suggest to the Government that we need to do much more to answer some of the disinformation now being put out by the Russians? For example, President (Vladimir) Putin tries to pretend that he has had nothing to do with agreements regarding the sovereignty of Ukraine.

"But in 2002 Vladimir Putin signed the Rome Declaration... which said the participating states respect sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all states and their inherent right to choose the means to ensure their own security and the inviolability of borders.

"That was signed up to by Vladimir Putin 20 years ago and now he seems to pretend that Ukraine does not exist.

"Surely we need to do much more to counter some of the lies coming out. Because the battle of narratives is going to matter just as much as the battle of the military on the ground."

Tory former solicitor general and QC Lord Garnier said the imposition of sanctions by the UK against three billionaire allies of Vladimir Putin and five Russian banks over Ukraine "really isn't enough".

Speaking in the Lords, Conservative peer: "Kleptocrats like drug dealers really do not like having their money, their ill-gotten gains, removed from them.

"We have sanctioned three individuals and five banks, that really isn't enough.

"President Putin has vast sums squirreled away in the West, held by nominees. The Government must know who these nominees are and may I suggest that the Government speedily sanctions all those whom it knows to be doing President Putin's work."

Responding, Tory Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said: "The sanctions announced today are only the first tranche and we will step sanctions if Russian aggression continues."

Former head of the Foreign Office and Diplomatic Service Lord McDonald of Salford said, to be effective, sanctions imposed on Moscow "have to be international and coordinated".

He told the upper chamber: "This needs to be an international effort which usually would be coordinated through the United Nations. The security council clearly is not available as the Russians have a veto.

"In what international forum will the Government coordinate the necessary sanctions effort?"

Tory Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said the Government had been working with allies through Nato, the UN and G7 as well as having bilateral meetings.

"We are working internationally and we are coordinating our response with our allies and partners," she said.

Former Navy chief Lord West of Spithead has said the UK and US should be preparing to make Vladimir Putin's "eyes water" over Ukraine, arguing the allies had superior cyber capability in the GCHQ and the National Security Agency.

The Labour peer, a member of Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee, said: "We can run rings around the Russians if we really want to. We should be getting ready to do that... to really make his eyes water so he knows what he's done."

He told the Lords: "We mustn't delude ourselves, Russia has invaded Ukraine."

Referring to the Russian leader, Lord West said: "He's made a calculation the pain isn't that much and I have to say at the moment I would rather agree with him. He's not getting that much pain.

He added: "Since 2010 we have reduced our military by a third. That has not gone unnoticed."

Independent crossbench peer Lord Skidelsky, who until last month was a director of oil refining firm Russneft, said the lack of understanding of Russia's position was "absolutely appalling".

He told the Lords: "Will the Government urgently and imaginatively search for a diplomatic agreement on the Ukraine problem?

"The lack of imagination and lack of understanding of Russia's position is absolutely appalling in my view and very depressing.

"The atmosphere of the House reminds me very, very much of 2003 prior to the invasion of Iraq."

But disagreeing, Conservative Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said: "Russia has been falsely accusing Russia of provocation and nothing could be further from the truth.

"Nato has always been a defensive alliance and poses no threat to Russia.

"Nato allies remain committed to a dual track approach, strong deterrents and defence combined with meaningful dialogue, but Russia has to stop its aggression towards Ukraine."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Britain will "use every lever at our disposal to stop (Vladimir Putin) in his tracks".

Writing in The Times, Ms Truss said: "Time after time, we and our allies have said that any further invasion would have severe consequences. Now Russia has chosen to abandon diplomacy, we have a moral duty to stand with Ukraine and demonstrate that we mean what we say.

"We have put in place our toughest sanctions regime against Russia. Nothing is off the table."

Ms Truss said she had held a call with G7 allies to "agree the next package".

"We are looking at sanctioning members of the Russian Duma and Federation Council. And we will extend the territorial sanctions imposed on Crimea to the separatist-controlled territories in the Donbas," she said.

"We have a long list of those complicit in the actions of the Russian leadership. Should Russia refuse to pull back its troops we can keep turning up the heat, targeting more banks, elites and companies of significance."

She added: "In time, even those close to President Putin will come to see his decisions this week as a self-inflicted wound."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220222ei2m000jh


Aurescu, British counterpart condemn in phone call Russia's recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk's 'independence'
332 字
2022 年 2 月 22 日 18:50 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Feb 22 /Agerpres/ - Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu had a telephone conversation with his British counterpart Liz Truss on Tuesday, with the two officials 'strongly' condemning the Russian Federation's recognition of the 'independence' of self-proclaimed separatist republics Donetsk and Luhansk, component parts of Ukraine.

At the same time, Aurescu and Truss stressed the 'flagrant' violation of international law, sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country by the Russian Federation, along with its obligations as a signatory to the Minsks Agreement, shows a Foreign Ministry (MAE) release sent to AGERPRES.

Minister Aurescu presented to the British counterpart Romania's position according to which the international community 'must sanction firmly, immediately and in coordinated manner the actions of the Russian Federation, in response to the latest developments, but also as a way to discourage future actions to destabilize the situation.' The two ministers also agreed on the importance of 'strong' support for Ukraine by the international community, including through measures to increase this state's resilience.

At the same time, the head of the Romanian diplomacy referred to the need to further consolidate, in a coherent and unitary manner, the allied position of deterrence and defence on the Eastern Flank, including in its south, on the Black Sea.

The two ministers discussed the creation of the NATO combat group in Romania. They agreed to continue close bilateral contacts and cooperation at the Allied level in order to adapt the response of NATO and allied states to current security developments, including by setting up a combat group in Romania.

According to the MAE, the British Secretary of State Liz Truss appreciated Romania's firm position in relation to the current developments in its neighborhood and agreed with the need to strengthen the collective commitment for the security of the allies on NATO 's Eastern Flank. AGERPRES (RO - author: Oana Ghita, editor: Claudia Stanescu; EN- author: Bogdan Gabaroi)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220222ei2m003pd


DIPLOMACY
ForMin Aurescu, British counterpart condemn in phone call Russia’s recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk’s “independence”
322 字
2022 年 2 月 23 日
Nine O'Clock Online
NINEOC
英文
Copyright 2022. Nineoclock.ro. All rights reserved.
Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu had a telephone conversation with his British counterpart Liz Truss on Tuesday, with the two officials “strongly” condemning the Russian Federation’s recognition of the “independence” of self-proclaimed separatist republics Donetsk and Luhansk, component parts of Ukraine.

At the same time, Aurescu and Truss stressed the “flagrant” violation of international law, sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country by the Russian Federation, along with its obligations as a signatory to the Minsks Agreement, shows a Foreign Ministry (MAE) release sent to AGERPRES.

Minister Aurescu presented to the British counterpart Romania’s position according to which the international community “must sanction firmly, immediately and in coordinated manner the actions of the Russian Federation, in response to the latest developments, but also as a way to discourage future actions to destabilize the situation.” The two ministers also agreed on the importance of “strong” support for Ukraine by the international community, including through measures to increase this state’s resilience.

At the same time, the head of the Romanian diplomacy referred to the need to further consolidate, in a coherent and unitary manner, the allied position of deterrence and defence on the Eastern Flank, including in its south, on the Black Sea.

The two ministers discussed the creation of the NATO combat group in Romania. They agreed to continue close bilateral contacts and cooperation at the Allied level in order to adapt the response of NATO and allied states to current security developments, including by setting up a combat group in Romania.

According to the MAE, the British Secretary of State Liz Truss appreciated Romania’s firm position in relation to the current developments in its neighborhood and agreed with the need to strengthen the collective commitment for the security of the allies on NATO ’s Eastern Flank.

Click to view image [https://www.nineoclock.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/aurescu.jpg]

Cristiana Invest Press SRL

文件 NINEOC0020220223ei2n00003


News; Domestic
Biden: U.S. Freezing Four More Major Russian Banks; Ukrainians Fleeing To Poland As Russia Invades; Zelensky: Worst Fighting In Southern Ukraine; Biden's Sanctions Restricting Russian Banks & Banning Technology Imports; Pentagon Orders Deployment of 7,000 Troops To Europe. Aired 2:30-3p ET
Alisyn Camerota, Victor Blackwell, Erin Burnett, Scott McLean, Nick Paton Walsh, Fred Pleitgen, Kaitlan Collins, Steve Hall, Cedric Leighton
4922 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[14:30:48]

ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.

ALISYN CAMEROTA, CNN HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Alisyn Camerota. Welcome to CNN NEWSROOM.

VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN HOST: I'm Victor Blackwell.

Erin Burnett is in Lviv, Ukraine.

Erin, we just heard from President Biden, announcing new sanctions. You are there. What are you seeing?

ERIN BURNETT, CNN ANCHOR: All right, I'll tell you what we're learning right now just actually in this moment.

Here in Lviv, where I am, in western Ukraine, as you know, military bases near here were struck early this morning.

The city is saying at 11:00 p.m., about 90 minutes from now, they'll turn off the streetlights here, all building illuminations.

And they're also asking anyone who lives here to turn off the lights in their homes. They're making it very clear that this is for preventive measures.

I know just over the past, you know, two weeks, talking to you guys every day, there's a big tower behind me. It's a communications tower. It is not illuminated now. It's at the top of the tallest hill in the city. But that's what they're saying.

As you can see behind me -- I'm making sure you can see -- obviously, there's light in the city. All of that, we're told, is going to go off at 11:00 p.m. As I said, in about 90 minutes in a country that is very much on edge.

You have clashes going on right now in the east of this country, in the north of this country, in the south of this country as we speak.

It's night. Again, the fears of more potential strikes. Nobody knows what is next.

As you all know, it comes as President Biden called Vladimir Putin a bully for launching war here in Ukraine and Europe and for destroying peace in a place that held here since World War II.

After months of denials and lies, Putin invaded Ukraine by land, by air, and by sea. More than 100 missiles starting in the early morning hours.

President Biden, moments ago, issuing new, what he calls, severe sanctions against Russia, including family members of elites.

We don't know yet who they are. That's very important. And right now, not yet, against Putin himself.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Putin is the aggressor. Putin chose this war. Now he and his country will bear the consequences.

We have purposefully designed these sanctions to maximize a long-term impact on Russia and to minimize the impact of the United States and our allies.

This aggression cannot go unanswered. If it did, the consequences for America would be much worse.

America stands up to bullies. We stand up for freedom.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BURNETT: Ukraine's Ministry of Internal Affairs reports nearly 400 instances of shelling by Russian forces in Ukraine today.

Ukrainian officials said at least 40 have been killed. Most of them in the military. I must say, though, we're very much in the fog of war. No one knows the real numbers.

We do know Ukrainian are using subway stations as bomb shelters in Kharkiv in the east of this country.

They've been putting a run on ATMs for cash. It's the only place today, in fact, where we have seen any groups of people. You see a group, you know it's an ATM.

Clogging major roads to flee from the war that NATO's leader calls brutal and reckless and unprovoked.

I want to go now to CNN's Scott McLean.

When we talk about people fleeing, that is live on the Poland/Ukrainian border where Ukrainians are crossing.

Scott, one of the most powerful images today was seeing rows and rows of completely blocked highways of people leaving Kyiv and heading west. Many of them leaving the country, their own country for their safety.

Tell me what you're seeing.

SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Erin. Let me set the scene. We're in the town of Madika. It's not very big, maybe a few thousand people. It's a border town. There's been a steady stream of people coming out.

So this pathway you're seeing people come up is a pedestrian crossing. As you can see where it's illuminated, that's the actual border crossing.

What we've seen since we've been here for the last few hours is a lot of families coming out here.

And the reason why you don't see more people, Erin, is because we are told by many people that we have spoken to that there's a backlog on the other side.

People are having to wait six, seven, nine hours outdoors to cross the border. Again, they have children and it's right around freezing right now.

[14:35:03]

Let me show you what else we're seeing. There's a whole bunch of people in this area because they have to figure out where to go once they actually get here.

A lot of them are milling about with their suitcases trying to arrange taxis and trying to arrange a ride.

There's buses here, as well, taking people to nearby towns. That one is going to a city maybe less than an hour from here.

You also have -- sorry. Here is another family who just arrived here.

Do you speak English?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

MCLEAN: Where did you come from?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

MCLEAN: People are just trying to figure out where they're trying to go now.

Honestly, Erin, many people we've spoken to -- let me take you around the other way. You can see there seems to a lot more volume of people coming in.

A lot of people we have spoken to, Erin, frankly, they don't know exactly where they're going to go. They're trying to figure out a hotel. They're trying to figure out some kind of accommodation.

Other people are trying to get to Warsaw to try to get to the airport, as well.

We know that the Polish government has set up these sorts of welcome centers up-and-down the border. We're not exactly sure where the welcome center is in this area. It's not well advertised.

What you don't see in this area is any kind of organized aid. You don't see UNHCR. You don't see police. You don't see really any helpers try to assist people, which is really remarkable.

Sorry, I'll get out of the way. People are trying to get on the bus as it's going to the town nearby.

Again, it's a bit chaotic in this area, frankly, Erin.

Again, it breaks your heart to see children, especially, you know, having to wait in the cold and not knowing where they're going.

Most of the people we have spoken to, as well, they don't think they'll be gone for long or perhaps they're hopeful they're not gone for long.

You know, maybe they think they'll be gone for a week or so. Then they'll be able to go back.

There's also been a remarkable, well, maybe not remarkable, but a surprising number of people going the other way, back into Ukraine.

I spoke to one woman earlier today who is a Ukrainian living here in Poland. Not too far from the border.

She went back in because she said she simply could not stay home. She just wanted to do something. So she ended up ferrying people to train stations to try to assist them in getting out.

Another woman actually is a Ukrainian living in London. About a week ago, she went to visit her mother, thinking there's no way there's going to be an attack.

Obviously, well she was very wrong. Now she was fleeing today with her child and, also, with her mother, as well.

Virtually, everyone we have spoken to is united in the fact that they did not see this coming.

Many Ukrainians simply thought it was a bluff by Vladimir Putin. Perhaps there would be some military action going on in the east of the country.

But it seems like nobody expected what we're seeing here today in terms of the bombing and shelling and the things you're seeing inside of the country -- Erin?

BURNETT: Yes. That's what we've seen here, as well. People heard the intelligence. They knew the intelligence. They simply did not believe that such an incomprehensible and counter-factual thing could happen. Yet here we are. Thank you very much, Scott.

I want to go to Nick Paton Walsh. He is in southern Ukraine. That's where President Zelensky said some of the worst fighting is going on.

Nick, it's one of the things, as we're talking about it, sometimes it's near people on our team. Sometimes it isn't. But the fighting is happening. It's happening as we speak.

What are you seeing? What do you understand is happening near where you are?

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR: Yes, I'm in the Black Sea coast. It's had an awful day, frankly.

We didn't see as we came into this vital city of Kherson, we heard quite a lot of explosions.

And some gunfire toward a key bridge that the Russians possibly have pushed over to get on to this, the Kyiv essentially, sort of northern side of the Dnieper River that runs through Ukraine.

They pushed out this morning, it seems, from Crimea, which has for the last eight years, been held illegally by Russia after the annexation in 2014.

They appeared to have got to the other side of the bridge here near this town where I'm standing, Kherson. Then an extensive fire fight occurred for control of a bridge.

When we got here, we heard the gunfire and the violence, it seemed, on this side of the river, essentially, about eight kilometers east in this town city, on its outskirts.

The question we're asking ourselves now, obviously, is some of their ambitions to cross the bridge and moving on?

President Zelensky seemed to think their goals from taking this part of territory and the hydroelectric power station. But we also learned they have fallen in their hands. And a further area to the east, as well.

[14:40:08]

But they may be trying to move eastward toward essentially the separatist areas on the outer Azov Sea coast. That's unclear.

What we don't know is whether Kherson is potentially a target for the advancing forces or they're essentially moving on through.

It's eerie here, frankly, shut down. A lot of the lights are off. It's very quiet.

As of now, unclear if that's a lull or what we're going to see next or if it's essentially a route for the Russian forces heading west to where we were this morning out in Odessa, Ukraine's third-largest city -- Erin?

BURNETT: All right, Nick, thank you very much.

You can see how dark it is. He's talking about the loss of light. That's what we'll be seeing that here in just over an hour. All of the lights will go off. They're asking everyone to turn them off at home as well.

So when you say, how much Russian forces are in the country, what are they doing, how many tanks, where is the fighting?

The person with the best eyes on the ground on this is Frederick Pleitgen, because he's live on the Russian side of the border near the city of Belgorod.

Fred, I want to the give everyone a sense here, Fred, you've been watching the convoys for days. Then you watched them file through.

You have a sense of the scale and the scope and how long it continued and how many have been coming in from where you are. You've seen artillery rockets from Russia being fired into Ukraine throughout as the convoys went.

What are you seeing right now?

FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erin, essentially, what we've been seeing and continue to see, at the last border crossing toward Ukraine, toward the city of Kharkiv, the Kharkiv frontline, you said it correctly, a steady stream of Russian forces moving across there.

It's quite interesting because some of them are armored convoys. You have a lot of fighting vehicles going across. Of course, the very important for the Russian campaign.

But then, also, larger vehicles, as well. We saw main battle tanks.

One interesting thing we thought, the main battle tanks, we saw them go past us, their tracks were full of mud. They must have been dug in some position close to where we were. And they had come out and took the main road into Kharkiv.

That seems to have possibly indicate maybe the Russians made some headway in Kharkiv and moving the front line further into Ukrainian territory.

Then we also saw some pretty heavy Howitzers, as well. They can cause a lot of damage. Those shells are very heavy.

And especially if they're used in civilian areas. That, obviously, would be something that would be completely devastating. We did see a lot of those.

But one of the things that stood out is the fact we saw those artillery rockets being fired from the position that we were at. It happened at various occasions throughout the day that salvos were fired.

Those artillery rockets have a pretty long range. They're not necessarily the most accurate weapons that the Russians have. They can do a lot of damage and they are certainly feared, as well.

So from our vantage point, what we can see, Erin, the offensive is extremely large scale. We've seen Russian troops go in there pretty much throughout the entire day. It's out in a large area.

And it certainly shows absolutely no signs of slowing down -- Erin?

BURNETT: All right. Thank you very much, Fred.

Just an incredible sense of scale, as he said. No signs of slowing down and still just coming in more and more and more into this country.

If you need to ask yourself, is it over? Is this all he's going to do? You have your answer. The answer is no. They're here.

President Biden just imposed additional sanctions on Russia in response, as they said they would do. They have ramped them up in his restricting the country's banks, banning technology exports.

Let's go to our chief White House correspondent, Kaitlan Collins.

Kaitlan, Biden also said there's going to be new sanctions targeting Russian elites with close ties to Vladimir Putin. He said we'll learn more in the coming days.

Obviously, it's a key part of the sanctions plan. We don't yet have more details yet, do we?

KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, they have released the name was of the Russian elites. This is coming from the Treasury Department, of course, in charge of the sanctions.

It will -- basically, the main extent of these sanctions that President Biden announced today that the White House has been talking about, for some time now, are going after Russian banks, going after Russian elites, and adding more of them to the sanctions list.

Also, going after technology exports. These will affect things like Russia's military capabilities when it comes to things like lasers, sensors, semiconductor chips.

Those are the nature of the sanctions they're going after Russia with.

What President Biden was talking about there, when he was laying out the consequences he said Russia is going to bear, is they will take some time to take effect.

They're not as immediate, as you could see other measures go into effect. So it will take time.

President Biden was arguing he does believe, over time, it will weaken Russia and these sanctions will be effective.

[14:44:59]

One argument he did make, which is notable, given what White House aids and top national security officials have been saying for several weeks, is he didn't believe the sanctions were going to stop Putin from going forward to do what he did.

We've talked about them being a deterrence, as the White House felt they wanted to wait until Putin actually went in and attacked Ukraine to put these sanctions in place, as they're doing today.

Erin, one other thing we should note the Treasury Department announced is they'll be sanctioning a list of individuals from Belarus, including the defense minister, which is notable, for helping Ukraine or helping Russia with the invasion into Ukraine.

Last night, as the attack was happening, we know there were reports on the ground of the Russian forces coming in from the border with Belarus.

Now they have a list of individuals, I believe it's about 24 of them who are now also being sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury Department.

The larger scale of this, of course, is what the sanctions will actually do.

The question has been, how effective can they be in deterring someone like Putin, who seems dead set on doing what he wants to do and rebuilding the Soviet Empire, as President Biden said, is his main goal.

That's something President Biden talked about just a few moments ago.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BIDEN: The threat of the sanctions and imposing the sanctions and seeing the effect of the sanctions are two different things.

(CROSSTALK)

BIDEN: They're two different things. We're going to -- he's going to begin to see the effect of the sanctions.

COLLINS: And what will that do -- how will it change his mindset here, given he's --

(CROSSTALK)

BIDEN: It will weaken his country. He'll have to make a very, very difficult choice as to whether to continue to move toward being a second-rate power or, in fact, respond.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

COLLINS: There, President Biden saying what he believed would happen to Russia if he continued to move forward with this.

One chilling thing he said also, Erin, is he believes President Putin has his sights are set much higher than just Ukraine, saying he's intent on rebuilding the Soviet Empire.

And raising questions where Putin can go from where he started last night.

BURNETT: Kaitlan, thank you very much.

And joining me now are CNN national security analyst Steve Hall. Of course, you know him, the former chief of Russian operations for CIA. And Ambassador Ivo Daalder. He is the former U.S. ambassador to NATO.

Thank you very much to both of you for your time.

Steve Hall, where do you think we are in this are right now in the context of, another night, the city is going to be dark across this country? As I said, we're about an hour from that. Formerly, we saw it in the south.

And convoys that just seem to be unrelenting still crossing the border from Russia into Ukraine.

STEVE HALL, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Well, Erin, I guess, a day or so ago, we had the luxury of wondering whether or not he was -- Putin, that is -- was just going to go into the Donbass under these strange artificial circumstances that Putin himself created and stop there.

That's clearly not going to happen. It's clearly much bigger than that.

And so we're beyond the part now where we say, well, are these threats of sanctions going to actually have an impact on Vladimir Putin? Clearly, they haven't.

And that was sort of what is going on, I think, in the press conference today. You had a lot of people asking, OK, now what?

It's clear Putin will go in and take, at the very least, the entire country of Ukraine. I suppose it's not clear whether he'll try to hold it like he has Crimea, just annexed it.

Or try to install some sort of public government, which is, in my view, probably more likely because it's perhaps less troublesome for Putin.

But there's a bigger question that now is laid at the world's doorstep. Which is, what do we do with a country that has simply flaunted the entire international system of rule of law?

And I think the answer is, well, we have to somehow contain them and make them, as the president said, a pariah state.

But where we are now is certainly very different from where we were 24, 48 hours ago.

And of course, you all on the ground in Ukraine know that much better than we do back here.

BURNETT: Ambassador, let me ask you about what the president said he did think was important. You know, that putting more supplies to NATO, more troops to bolster NATO. Making it clear U.S. troops will not fight Russia in Ukraine.

The NATO thing is great. It's only relevant if Putin goes beyond Ukraine, right? I suppose you can view it as a deterrent.

But it seemed like what the president was saying there was very clearly he felt that Vladimir Putin did intend to go farther than Ukraine.

I think that's sobering for anyone hearing it around the world. Is that what you heard?

IVO DAALDER, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO NATO: Yes, I think that is a risk that is clearly present now.

The massive scale of this invasion that you've all been observing and reporting on just demonstrates that this is not about a little part of Ukraine, and it really isn't about Ukraine.

It is about trying to figure out how to remake the current system of European security.

And it is our goal -- I think, as Steve rightly says, the need now is to focus on containing, containing and, ultimately, through containment, affect internal change in Russia.

[14:50:08]

It's the only way we won the Cold War. It's how we need to fight this new fight. Which is not for weeks or months. It will be years.

And the key components of that are the sanctions the president announced. I agree with those who say the more, the better, the quicker.

The second component is to support the Ukrainians as best they can, not only to people who are crossing the border, but the Ukrainian forces fighting inside.

Whether that is now to counter the invasion or, afterwards, to counter an occupation through an insurgency just to raise the cost for Russia.

And this finally, this really important issue of bolstering NATO and all of NATO.

I'm particularly concerned, if you look at the map and realize that Belarus and Russia are now a single military command zone.

There's a 60-kilometer border between Belarus and Kaliningrad, which, if the Russians were to take that -- of course, that means attacking Polish and/or Lithuanian territory.

But if they take that, you would cut off three Baltic States from the land corridor to NATO. That's what we need to prevent.

I think hopefully tomorrow, when the NATO summit or a virtual summit gets together, there's an agreement to deploy significant forces and significant tens of thousands of troops in this part of the region to prevent that.

BURNETT: Steve, today, I went to one of the military installations near Lviv here that was hit.

And one of the officers in the woods down a dirt road, they're not talking to the media, allowing the media on to the military installations.

But they did come out and speak to me. And they said they were hit by two rockets and they believe they came from Belarus.

Now I don't know whether they did or didn't. But we know a lot of things did come from Belarus. Belarus says it wasn't their soldiers but they are one with Russia.

Is it, at this point, essentially Belarus and Russia is just one place, is that a border with any distinction?

HALL: Certainly, in the context of Ukraine, and I would argue that probably not.

I mean, Lukashenko is essentially a lapdog of Putin on a very short leash. The Russian military can do pretty much whatever it wants and Lukashenko and the Belarusians won't do anything. And that's very useful for Putin.

But I think you also have to remember there's a price that the Belarusians pay. And there's certainly a price that the Russians will pay.

By taking this course of action, by going to war and invading a neighboring country, and then having the sanction that it will come down on Russia, Putin has essentially condemned Russia to be essentially a third-world country with nuclear weapons, sort of like maybe Pakistan or something like that.

If it works as it seems it's going to, because of the unity in the West, Russia will not have a lot of whole lot options beyond perhaps these military ones, which are not going to go that much further, I don't think.

BURNETT: It's interesting to see where it goes. I've been to Iran during the height of their sanctions. It does completely diminish a country from greatness. But it's unclear whether these will go anywhere near in that direction.

Thank you both so very much. I appreciate it. Steve Hall and Ambassador Ivo Daalder, thanks so much. So now let's send things back to you, Alisyn and Victor.

BLACKWELL: All right, Erin, thank you for that context.

[14:53:32]

President Biden just announced that thousands of additional U.S. troops will head to Europe to defend NATO territory. But he doubled down on his promise to not send troops into Ukraine. We've got new details ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[14:58:27]

CAMEROTA: As Russian troops move into Ukraine, the Pentagon is deploying 7,000 U.S. troops to Europe and moving U.S. military assets further east.

That includes sending six F-35 fighter jets into the NATO nations of Estonia, Lithuania and Romania.

BLACKWELL: Let's bring in retired Lieutenant Colonel Cedric Leighton for more. He's a CNN military analyst and former member of the Joint Staff at the Pentagon.

Colonel, there have been reports of and explosions heard across the country far beyond the Donbass region.

What's your assessment of the situation now?

LT. COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: So, Victor, let's take a look at those explosions because what we see here are quite a few different areas.

And when you see the geographic diversity of all of these areas, where there's been an explosion, either from a missile or from a bomb or from a rocket or artillery shell that was sent by the Russians, it's basically covering the entire country.

And that is really quite significant because the Russians always believe that artillery was kind of their god of war. This is the pure demonstration of that very fact.

And you see just by the sheer number of explosions that they intended to do this by blanketing the whole country.

CAMEROTA: Colonel, what are you seeing in the airspace above Ukraine?

LEIGHTON: So, Alisyn, that's also something very interesting.

So let's first go to the restricted airspace area.

[14:59:49]

These are the airports, the main airports in Ukraine. And they handle a lot of traffic, particularly in Kyiv and in Lviv and also Odessa. Those are basically the three main areas. Also followed by Kharkiv.

But what happened here, when the Russians came in, they decided that they needed to blanket the airspace and block it off to all traffic.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220225ei2o0005l


The UN Security Council has scheduled an emergency meeting at the request of...
17353 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 22:24 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The UN Security Council has scheduled an emergency meeting at the request of Ukraine, which says there is an immediate threat of a Russian invasion.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said it is possible Russian forces commence an invasion of Ukraine before the night is over.

He told NBC News: "Russia has positioned its forces at the final point of readiness across Ukraine's borders to the north, to the east, to the south. Everything seems to be in place for Russia to engage in a major aggression against Ukraine.

"I can't put a date or an exact time on it, but everything is in place for Russia to move forward."

Mr Blinken added there was "still an opportunity to avert a major aggression", but "if Russia continues to escalate, so will we".

President Vladimir Putin says Russia will conduct a military operation in eastern Ukraine.

In a televised address early on Thursday morning, Mr Putin said the action comes in response to threats coming from Ukraine.

He added that Russia does not have a goal to occupy Ukraine, but said the responsibility for bloodshed lies with the Ukrainian "regime".

US President Joe Biden has called Russia's decision to commence a military operation in eastern Ukraine an "unprovoked and unjustified attack".

He said in a statement: "The prayers of the entire world are with the people of Ukraine tonight as they suffer an unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces.

"President Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering. Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring, and the United States and its Allies and partners will respond in a united and decisive way. The world will hold Russia accountable."

Mr Biden continued: "I will be monitoring the situation from the White House this evening and will continue to get regular updates from my national security team.

"I will meet with my G7 counterparts in the morning and then speak to the American people to announce the further consequences the United States and our allies and partners will impose on Russia for this needless act of aggression against Ukraine and global peace and security.

"We will also coordinate with our Nato allies to ensure a strong, united response that deters any aggression against the alliance. Tonight, Jill and I are praying for the brave and proud people of Ukraine."

Explosions have been heard in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, shortly after Vladimir Putin announced that a military operation had begun.

The sound of distant blasts were picked up in a live broadcast from US outlet CNN, causing reporter Matthew Chance to don a flak jacket.

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Russia's actions were a "grave breach of international law" and that allies would meet to address the "renewed aggression".

"I strongly condemn £Russia's reckless attack on £Ukraine, which puts at risk countless civilian lives," he wrote on Twitter.

"This is a grave breach of international law & a serious threat to Euro-Atlantic security.

"£NATO Allies will meet to address Russia's renewed aggression."

Melinda Simmons, the UK's ambassador to Ukraine, said she was "horrified" at Russia's action.

She wrote on Twitter: "A wholly unprovoked attack on a peaceful country is unfolding. Horrified. Just because you've prepared and thought about this possibility for weeks and months doesn't mean it isn't shocking when it actually happens."

The Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dmytro Kuleba, said that Ukraine would defend itself against the Russian aggression "and will win".

"Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strikes.

"This is a war of aggression. Ukraine will defend itself and will win.

"The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said she condemns the "appalling, unprovoked attack" on Ukraine.

"I strongly condemn the appalling, unprovoked attack President Putin has launched on the people of Ukraine," she tweeted.

"We stand with Ukraine and we will work with our international partners to respond to this terrible act of (aggression)."

Russian military action in Ukraine would be "a massive strategic mistake" and would "incur severe costs", a UK Government spokesperson has said.

"We are working closely with allies to verify urgently reports of a further Russian invasion of Ukraine," the spokesperson said.

"Any such action would be a massive strategic mistake and will incur severe costs."

US ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said that "responsible members" of the global security council would stand with Ukraine following the attack by Russian forces.

"Let's be clear: 'All parties' are not culpable here. There is no middle ground. Calling for both sides to de-escalate only gives Russia a pass," she said.

"Russia is the aggressor here. Russia's attack on Ukraine is tantamount to an attack on the UN and every Member State.

"Responsible members of the UNSC will stand together, and we will stand with Ukraine.

"And we will do so despite a reckless, irresponsible, permanent member of the Security Council abusing its powers to attack its neighbor and subvert the UN and our international system.

"History tells us we must confront this threat head on, in this Council, in the UN, and in our capitals.

"The people of Ukraine are counting on us. Let's not let them down."

The UK's ambassador to the UN, Dame Barbara Woodward, has said it is a "grave day for Ukraine and for the principles of the United Nations".

Speaking at an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council, she said: "As we sat in this chamber urging Russia to step back, President Putin announced special military operations on Ukrainian territory.

"This is unprovoked and unjustified. This is a grave day for Ukraine and for the principles of the United Nations.

"We and our partners have been clear that there will be consequences for Russia's actions. We fully support the United States' call for a UN Security Council resolution. This Council must do all it can to stop war and uphold the (UN) Charter".

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said US President Joe Biden had been briefed on a "secure call" by senior officials about the attack in Ukraine.

"POTUS was briefed on a secure call this evening by Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin, Chairman Milley and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan about the ongoing attack on Ukraine by Russian military forces," she tweeted.

President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said her thoughts were with the people of Ukraine "in these dark hours" and that Russia would be held accountable for its actions.

"We strongly condemn Russia's unjustified attack on Ukraine," she wrote.

"In these dark hours, our thoughts are with Ukraine and the innocent women, men and children as they face this unprovoked attack and fear for their lives.

"We will hold the Kremlin accountable."

US President Joe Biden said his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy had "reached out" to him following the attack by Russian forces and asked for world leaders to "speak out clearly" against Vladimir Putin's actions.

"I briefed him on the steps we are taking to rally international condemnation, including tonight at the UN Security Council," Mr Putin wrote on Twitter.

"He asked me to call on the leaders of the world to speak out clearly against President Putin's flagrant aggression, and to stand with the people of Ukraine."

He added: "Tomorrow, I will be meeting with the Leaders of the G7, and the United States and our allies and partners will be imposing severe sanctions on Russia.

"We will continue to provide support and assistance to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people."

The president of the European Council, Charles Michel, has called on Vladimir Putin to "stop this war immediately".

Mr Michel said he had spoken with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy as the Belgian condemned Russian's "unjustified large scale military aggression" as well as expressing his solidarity with Ukraine.

"Today both the European Council and G7 leaders will meet to agree on further steps against Russia's illegal acts and in support of Ukraine," he tweeted.

"I call on President Putin to stop this war immediately."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly tweeted: "Putin's attack on Ukraine is unprovoked and unjustified.

"We condemn this action in the strongest terms.

"The UK will work with our international partners to respond to this act of (aggression)."

International Trade Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan called the events in Ukraine "shocking" and "distressing".

She tweeted: "Shocking & distressing to follow events happening in £Ukraine from here in Tokyo.

"Unprovoked attacks by Putin will be met with a united response.

"In my meetings with (Japanese) ministers today we are discussing (UK) & G7 partners standing together against outrageous aggression."

Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said the Kremlin "must face the severest consequences" for "unprovoked aggression" in Ukraine.

She tweeted: "Overnight developments in Ukraine - however anticipated - are appalling and horrific.

"The Kremlin must face the severest consequences for this unprovoked aggression.

"And the world must stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine £StandWithUkraine".

The UK Foreign Office has said people should not attempt to cross from Russia into Ukraine.

The official advice was updated on Thursday to say: "There are multiple reports of widespread military activity in Ukraine. You should not attempt to cross into Ukraine from Russia."

Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said his country is considering sanctions against 300 members of the Russian parliament over the attack on Ukraine.

Mr Morrison also condemned Russia for the "brutal" and "unprovoked" attack, and said it should withdraw its troops.

Former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt said the events in Ukraine are a "threat" to "all democracies".

He tweeted: "Truly a dark hour as we think about our friends in Ukraine.

"The threat is not just to a young democracy but (to) all democracies as we believe in a simple principle for which many lives have been shed: no country has the right to walk into its neighbour.

"This cannot be allowed to pay".

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said he has instructed the UK Civil Aviation Authority to ensure airlines avoid Ukraine airspace "to keep passengers and crew safe".

He tweeted: "Following the horrific events overnight in Ukraine, I've instructed @UK_CAA to ensure airlines avoid Ukraine airspace to keep passengers and crew safe.

"We continue to stand with the people of Ukraine and work with our international partners to respond to this act of aggression."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said: "Vladimir Putin's attack on Ukraine is unprovoked and unjustifiable. His actions will have horrendous and tragic consequences that will echo throughout the world and throughout history.

"All those who believe in the triumph of democracy over dictatorship, good over evil, freedom over the jackboot of tyranny must now support the Ukrainian people. They have been cast onto the front line of a war, simply for existing.

"There can be no space for equivocation when faced with the evil that Putin has unleashed. His actions pose a grave threat to the international order on which we all depend.

"There will be dark days ahead. But Putin will learn the same lesson as Europe's tyrants of the last century: that the resolve of the world is harder than he imagines and the desire for liberty burns stronger than ever. The light will prevail.

"I know people in this country will be feeling worried and uncertain. I know that Ukrainians and Russians here in the UK will be worrying for friends and family back home. Our hearts are with them today.

"We must now match our rhetoric with action. We must urgently reinforce our Nato allies. The hardest possible sanctions must be taken against all those linked to Putin. The influence of Russian money must be extricated from the UK. And those who have for too long turned a blind eye to Russia's actions must reckon with their own consciences."

Britain's ambassador to Ukraine urged UK nationals to leave Ukraine immediately.

Melinda Simmons wrote on Twitter: "We advise GB nationals to leave Ukraine immediately if you judge that it is safe to do so from your location. Please call +380 44 490 3660 if you need assistance."

Shadow defence secretary John Healey tweeted: "This Russian attack on Ukraine is an attack on democracy. It violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity every independent state has under international law.

"We stand united in condemning Putin. Our response must be hard and fast against Russia and to help the Ukrainians".

Wizz Air was due to operate flights to Luton from Kyiv and Lviv on Thursday, but they were both cancelled.

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly told Sky News: "Unfortunately, as we feared it might and as we predicted it would, Vladimir Putin has used dis-information, he's used lies, he's used false flag activities to justify the unjustifiable, which is an invasion of Ukraine.

"In response to this, the UK will - in close alignment with our international partners - bring forward an unprecedented level of sanctions to punish this aggression and to hopefully persuade the people around Vladimir Putin that this is completely the wrong thing to do, and that he should reverse this attack."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly accused Vladimir Putin of trying to play out a "fantasy" of "recreating some kind of czarist expansionist Russia".

He told Sky News: "Sadly, President Putin has been really clear in what he's trying to achieve. He is trying to recreate a Russian Empire in his mind, claim back places which he defines as Russia. But the international community recognises that these are individual sovereign states.

"Ukraine is not part of Russia and the fantasy that Vladimir Putin is trying to play out in recreating some kind of czarist expansionist Russia absolutely has to be stopped.

"We will continue working. We've been providing financial and military support to Ukraine for a number of years.

"Just yesterday, the Foreign Secretary announced an economic support package. There will, of course, be more support and we will be bringing forward, as I say, in close concert with our international friends and allies, an unprecedented sanctions response, co-ordinated sanctions response, to punish this appalling decision."

Ireland's Foreign Affairs Minister Simon Coveney has branded the Russian invasion of Ukraine as a "murderous act of aggression".

Mr Coveney said a "strong response" was needed from the international community.

"Russia has launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. God help them," he tweeted.

"Rocket attacks & explosions across the country. Make no mistake: this is a shocking murderous act of aggression against a sovereign peaceful state. EU and world needs to respond strongly."

Mr Cleverly described the attack as a "catastrophically bad judgment call" by Russia.

He told Sky News: "The excuses that he (Mr Putin) has been giving, the justification that he's giving, cannot be believed."

He added: "The military leaders around Vladimir Putin must know that this is a catastrophically bad judgment call.

"I have no doubt the Ukrainian people will be ferocious in defence of their homelands.

"The military leaders must know that this will come at a huge cost - not just to Ukrainians."

Simon Coveney said Ireland's diplomatic team in Kyiv had moved to a safe place.

The Foreign Affairs Minister tweeted: "Our thoughts & prayers are with the innocent people of Ukraine, as families wake up to shocking Russian attacks.

"Russian leaders are lying to their own people to justify this illegal aggression. We utterly condemn Russia for this act of unjustifiable war in the heart of Europe."

He added: "Our diplomatic team in Kyiv has moved to a safe place and we stay in close contact with them. We are working with EU colleagues to ensure their safety."

In a further tweet, Mr Coveney said: "At the emergency UN Security Council meeting Ireland condemned the decision of Russia to launch a military operation and called on UNSC members to 'assume their responsibility and to speak out in the strongest possible terms about this act of aggression'."

EU foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell said the events in Ukraine mark "among the darkest (hours) for Europe since the end of World War Two".

He told a press conference in Brussels: "These are among the darkest (hours) for Europe since the end of World War Two. A major nuclear power has (attacked) a neighbour country and is threatening reprisals of any other state that may come to its rescue.

"This is not only the greatest violation of international law, it's a violation of the basic principles of human co-existence.

"It's costing many lives with unknown consequences ahead of us."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said Mr Putin has used a "thin veneer of justification for his aggression".

He told BBC Breakfast: "This isn't a defensive measure.

"This is an aggressive measure and it will be responded to by the international community."

He added: "We do fear that this is the start of a quite extensive military operation."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly described Russian President Vladimir Putin's rhetoric in his televised address - in which he warned interference from the international community would lead to "consequences" - as "bully" tactics.

He told BBC Breakfast: "It's clear that he is trying to bully the international community, as he has attempted to bully Ukraine for years, and we will have none of it.

"The international community stands shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people in their defence of their homeland.

"If Vladimir Putin thinks that he can scare the international community away from supporting Ukrainians in defence of their homeland, he is absolutely wrong on that and should be under absolutely no illusion that we will continue to support the Ukrainian government and Ukrainian people."

Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat condemned Russia's "vile act of war" against Ukraine as he criticised the UK Government for imposing "weak" sanctions on Monday.

The Conservative MP told the BBC's Today programme that Vladimir Putin's actions could "not be tolerated" by any party and must be met with "extremely hard" penalties.

"I'm afraid weak sanctions like the ones that were imposed on Monday just encourage others to believe we are weak because we're clearly not willing to do anything serious," he said.

"So what that did, I'm afraid on Monday, was it didn't deter, but encouraged, because it gave the suggestion or made clear that we weren't wiling to do anything serious.

"If we are going to do sanctions, as I say, we need to do them extremely hard and extremely early."

He added: "This is a vile act of war and an aggression which really cannot be tolerated by any party."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said "the European Union and its people stand by Ukraine and its people".

Speaking in Brussels, she said: "We condemn this barbaric attack and the cynical arguments to justify it. It is President Putin who is bringing war back to Europe. In these dark hours, the European Union and its people stand by Ukraine and its people.

"We are facing an unprecedented act of aggression by the Russian leadership against a sovereign, independent country.

"(Russia's) target is not only Donbas, the target is not only Ukraine. The target is the stability in Europe and the whole of the international peace order.

"We will hold President Putin accountable for that."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said: "Later today, we will present a package of massive and targeted sanctions to European leaders for approval.

"With this package, we will target strategic sectors of the Russian economy by blocking their access to technologies and markets that are key for Russia.

"We will weaken Russia's economic base and its capacity to modernise. In addition, we will freeze Russian assets in the European Union and stop the access of Russian banks to European financial markets."

Speaking in Brussels, she added: "Like with the first package of sanctions, we are closely aligned with our partners and allies, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, but also, for example, Japan and Australia.

"These sanctions are designed to take a heavy toll on the Kremlin's interests and their ability to finance war."

Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat has said the cost-of-living crisis will become "driven by war", with gas and food prices in danger of rising much higher than expected.

The Conservative MP told the BBC's Today programme: "The Russian people are still flying using planes with Rolls Royce and General Electric engines.

"The money still needs to be transferred and the cost of transferring that money still has an effect on the Russian Exchequer.

"The decisions made around Europe are absolutely going to shape the way Vladimir Putin sees this because the reality is that if we leave this to stand, if we let this pass, you can forget about petrol at £1.70 a litre, which is where it's heading now. It will be significantly higher."

He added: "10% of the world's wheat is grown in Ukraine and the idea that this year's going to be a good crop, I'm afraid, is for the birds.

"This is absolutely one of those moments where we're going to see the cost-of-living crisis driven by war."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said new sanctions against Russia would be announced "in waves", with further details released later on Thursday.

He told BBC Breakfast: "This will be the largest and most severe economic sanctions passage Russia has ever seen."

Irish premier Micheal Martin has condemned the latest Russian attack on Ukraine and said that Vladimir Putin's regime would pay a "high price".

In a post on Twitter on Thursday, he said: "I utterly condemn Russia's indefensible attack on the sovereign people of Ukraine.

"Our first thoughts are with them.

"We will work with the EU & UN to hold Putin and his regime accountable.

"Russia will pay a high price for this outrageous act of aggression. We stand with Ukraine."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly has urged the Russian military to defy Mr Putin's orders.

In emotive comments, he told BBC Breakfast: "Russian soldiers are being asked to kill their Ukrainian brothers and sisters - that will leave a mark on them for eternity.

"They should understand that they can stop this - they should stop this.

"Vladimir Putin has committed them to a course of action that they must know is wrong and they shouldn't follow those orders."

Tom Tugendhat, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, described the scenes of people leaving their homes in Ukraine as "a human tragedy".

He told BBC Breakfast: "The lines of people you're seeing fleeing their home, each person making a decision to abandon something, somewhere ... in order to seek safety elsewhere...

"To see these columns of people forced out by naked aggression by Russia and by Vladimir Putin is horrific and extremely painful, and we should be thinking very clearly about the families torn apart, the lives separated."

He repeated calls for tougher economic sanctions on Russia.

In response to the Ukraine crisis, airline Wizz Air, which operates flights between Luton and the eastern European country, said: "Due to the current events in Ukraine and the airspace closure, Wizz Air regrets to inform our customers that the airline must temporarily suspend all flight operations in the country.

"Passengers booked on arriving or departing Ukrainian flights can find more information on wizzair.com, or alternatively via the airline's call centre: 00380 893 202 532.

"The safety and security of our passengers and crew remains our number one priority and we hope normality will return to Ukraine soon."

Ireland's Foreign Affairs Minister has said it appears the time for diplomacy is now over, after the latest Russian action in Ukraine.

"This is an illegal act of aggression by Russia," Simon Coveney said on Thursday morning.

"They are lying to themselves and lying to the world about their justification for it."

Mr Coveney said it is not only an attack on Ukraine, but on the whole of Europe.

"It is also in many ways an attack on the kind of Europe we have built together, collectively, since World War Two."

(corrected repetition, amending typo in first par)

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said he believes the UK's initial round of sanctions failed to deter Russia partly because Vladimir Putin is making decisions "increasingly in isolation" and "illogically".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "What became evident in the days leading up to this invasion is that Vladimir Putin is increasingly isolated. That bizarre video of him berating his senior officials shows that he's making these decisions increasingly in isolation and illogically.

"And unfortunately I think that that is part of the reason why the initial round of international sanctions that (were) put in place by ourselves, by France, Germany, the US, Canada and others, didn't have the deterrent effect."

Ireland's Foreign Affairs Minister promised "very direct and very hard-hitting" sanctions against Russia.

"We are not going to go to war with Russia, militarily," Simon Coveney told RTE radio.

"But certainly I think the response in terms of sanctions will be very direct and very hard-hitting, and that means that the EU is also going to suffer as a result of those sanctions because undoubtedly there'll be counter-sanctions from Russia."

He said two Irish families are currently in Ukraine for surrogacy services and that Irish officials are working with them.

"We have been planning for this for a while. There are contingency plans in place. And we will obviously act in a way that maintains the safety of our people," he said.

Ryanair has suspended its Ukraine flights for at least the next fortnight.

The airline said: "Due to the closure of Ukrainian airspace overnight and the apparent invasion by Russian forces, all Ryanair flights to/from Ukraine have been suspended for at least the next 14 days.

"All affected passengers will receive email notices later this morning and all flights to/from Ukraine have been removed from sale for at least the next four weeks until further information becomes available from EU safety agencies.

"Ryanair remains committed to our services to/from Ukraine and we look forward to restoring flight services there as soon as it is safe to do so.

"We sincerely regret and apologise for these unprecedented disruptions and any inconvenience that they will inevitably cause to our Ukrainian customers."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said news that further sanctions are imminent has sparked a "huge reduction in Russia's economic abilities to fund this invasion".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "The sanctions package that will be put in response to this is already actually having an effect. Just the announcement that it's coming - we've seen the Russian stock market, the equivalent of the FTSE, drop by over 30%.

"That is a huge reduction in Russia's economic abilities to fund this invasion.

"And those sanctions will be laid today and over forthcoming days to really prevent Russia from funding this invasion."

Ukraine International Airlines (UIA) Ukraine International Airlines (UIA), which links Gatwick Airport with Kyiv, has suspended all flights to and from Ukraine.

The airline said: "The UIA team takes all possible measures to ensure the safety of our passengers."

Former Ukrainian national security chief Oleksandr Danylyuk warned that Russian President Vladimir Putin has under-estimated the country's ability to defend itself, saying "we will bury him".

Mr Danylyuk said Ukrainians are mobilising against the attacks, telling BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "At the moment there are about 36,000 people in the reserve but in reality it's much more.

"We're talking about up to a million people who are able to take and defend a country, and this is something Putin will not be able to swallow."

Asked whether he believes it is Mr Putin's intention to destroy Ukraine, the former head of Ukraine's National Security and Defence Council said: "Yeah, that is his ambition and he will die with this ambition. We will bury him.

"I know Ukrainians and he doesn't. He was mistaken about Ukrainians for many years. We will teach him a lesson."

Ukraine's State Air Traffic Services Enterprise closed the country's airspace at 12.45am GMT on Thursday "due to the high risk of aviation safety for civil aviation".

It added: "The provision of air traffic services to civilian users of the airspace of Ukraine is suspended."

Lloyds Banking Group has revealed it is on "heightened alert" for cyber attacks amid fears that Russia will seek to retaliate against sanctions.

The lending giant said it has been part of sector talks with the Government on Russia sanctions and the potential for cyber attacks by Russian hackers.

Speaking after reporting the group's annual results, Lloyds chief executive Charlie Nunn said all of the bank's security and controls are at a "heightened and elevated level".

"We've been working closely with the Government over the last two weeks," he added.

He stressed that the group has been investing "significantly" in cybersecurity over the past five years.

Images from aviation website Flightradar24 show there are no civilian aircraft in Ukrainian airspace.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson will make a statement on Ukraine to the House of Commons on Thursday.

It is expected to take place from approximately noon following an urgent question on the Horizon scandal and business questions with Commons Leader Mark Spencer.

General Sir Richard Shirreff has warned that Britain could soon be at war with Russia.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the retired Army officer said any incursion into Nato territory would bring Britain into direct involvement in the conflict.

"There is no surprise and there is profound sadness and a sense of appalling horror at what is about to unfold for the people of Ukraine," he said.

"And I think we have to assume that this is not Russia biting off a chunk of Ukraine - for example, establishing a land corridor in Crimea - but a full-blown military offensive to occupy Ukraine."

Sir Richard said it is "entirely plausible" that Russian President Vladimir Putin could be aiming to revive the Soviet Union, adding that if Russia puts "one bootstep" into Nato territory, the entire alliance will be at war.

Asked whether Britain might be expected to take part directly in the current military confrontation, he said: "Absolutely there is a possibility that we as a nation could be at war with Russia, because if Russia puts one bootstep across Nato territory, we are all at war with Russia. Every single one, every single member of the Nato alliance.

"Article 5 (of the Nato alliance) says an attack on one is an attack on all, so we need to change our mindset fundamentally, and that is why I say our defence starts in the UK on the frontiers of Nato."

Petrol and diesel prices have reached new record highs.

Figures from data firm Experian Catalist show the average cost of a litre of petrol at UK forecourts on Wednesday was 149.43p, while diesel cost 152.83p.

Prices are expected to rise further due to the Ukraine crisis.

Boris Johnson's Commons statement will now be at 5pm.

Boris Johnson will make an address to the nation this morning on the Russian invasion of Ukraine and will address MPs this afternoon.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said: "We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities.

"We will lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend our country as part of territorial defence with weapons in hands.

"We have severed diplomatic relations with Russia. For all those who have not yet lost their conscience in Russia, it is time to go out and protest against the war with Ukraine."

On the ban on flights between the UK and Ukraine, a Civil Aviation Authority spokesman said: "At the request of the Department for Transport, we can confirm that we have issued a notice to UK airlines (Notam), instructing them to avoid Ukrainian airspace until further notice."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called for people with military experience to "join the defence of Ukraine" and asked for blood donations to help wounded soldiers.

According to a live translation, he said: "Everyone who has military experience who can join the defence of Ukraine has to come to the military offices of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.

"Please keep yourself updated on the information. We have wounded soldiers in hospitals that require blood donations, please join and donate your blood.

"We carry out serious work on the defence and every enterprise, every business person needs to help. Please look after your workers, your employees.

"All people should have all the necessary facilities and goods. The bank system of Ukraine has got the resources to protect this state, to protect the interests of Ukrainian nationals.

"I'm grateful to all the politicians who support Ukraine and defend our sovereignty."

Yaroslaw Tymchyshyn, chairman of the Bolton branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain (AUGB), said he was "distraught" about the situation.

He said he had tried to contact a cousin in Ukraine on Thursday morning but was unable to get through.

He said: "She's not online and I fear for the worst. I just don't know what's going to happen.

"On my wife's side, I have not even had time to think about looking to see if they are online.

"That said, I spoke to them on Sunday morning and one of my brother-in-laws actually said 'don't worry, the machine gun is on the wall ready'.

"That is the attitude of most Ukrainians, we're not going to give up this lightly.

"We're not going to give up 30 years of independence for a remodel of Hitler."

Former Cabinet minister David Davis called for Nato allies to provide air support to the Ukrainian army to assist the fight against Russian invaders.

The senior Tory MP tweeted: "While we should continue to impose the most ferocious sanctions they are no longer a deterrent. They are a punishment. They will not stop him.

"If Nato does not act now, Ukraine will be defeated in a matter of days.

"Therefore if we do not provide military support, more than 40 million Ukrainians will go from living in a democracy to living under a brutal dictatorship.

"It is far too late to get boots on the ground but it is not too late to provide air support to the Ukrainian army which may neutralise Putin's overwhelming armoured superiority.

"If this is confined to the airspace over Ukraine, and is based on a request from President Zelensky, this should be perfectly legal under almost any interpretation of international law. It will also reduce the risk of escalation."

A Ukrainian MP has called on the UK to lead efforts to send UN peacekeepers to the country following Russia's invasion.

Dmytro Natalukha, chair of the Ukrainian parliament's economic affairs committee, said the UK could use the UN General Assembly to bypass likely Russian attempts to block action in the Security Council.

He said: "There is a precedent in international law when the UN introduced a peacekeeping contingent by the decision of the Assembly alone, without the consent of the Security Council."

The 1950 "Uniting for Peace" resolution allows the General Assembly to authorise military action when a "lack of unanimity" prevents the Security Council from exercising its "primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security".

Mr Natalukha said: "The UN could do the same today and hence bypass Russia's probable veto in the Security Council. We need a country that could take leadership in this."

He added that the UK should be that country.

The Archbisops of Canterbury and York have condemned the Russian attack on Ukraine as "an act of great evil".

In a joint statment, the Most Rev Justin Welby and the Most Rev Stephen Cottrell have urging Christians to make Sunday a day of prayer for Ukraine, Russia and for peace.

"The horrific and unprovoked attack on Ukraine is an act of great evil," they said.

"Placing our trust in Jesus Christ, the author of peace, we pray for an urgent ceasefire and a withdrawal of Russian forces.

"We call for a public decision to choose the way of peace and an international conference to secure long-term agreements for stability and lasting peace.

"We invite Christians to make this Sunday a day for prayer for Ukraine, Russia and for peace.

"We also give our support to the call from Pope Francis for a global day of prayer and fasting for peace on Ash Wednesday, March 2."

Bolton branch chairman of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain (AUGB) Yaroslaw Tymchyshyn said he thought the situation could become the "largest humanitarian disaster this side of the Second World War".

He said a GoFundMe page had been set up by the AUGB and branches across the country would accept donations to help with medical care.

He said he and colleagues at the branch were "totally and utterly shocked".

He added: "Many, many years ago we demonstrated outside the Russian Embassy when Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union to get the Russians out.

"We're now having to do this again. I never ever suspected in my lifetime, especially after 1991, that this would happen again.

"I was in Ukraine on August 24, 1991 when Ukraine was declared independent.

"When that news filtered through it was tears of joy, this morning it is tears of desperation."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has summoned the Russian ambassador to explain Russia's "illegal, unprovoked invasion of Ukraine" and said the UK would be "imposing severe sanctions".

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is understood to be preparing for a "flurry of phone calls" to rally allies in support of Ukraine today, starting with EU foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell.

Home Secretary Priti Patel said officials were on alert for cyber attacks and disinformation campaigns from Moscow as Russia invades Ukraine.

She tweeted: "Russia's unjustified and unjustifiable attack on a democratic sovereign nation makes this a dark day in Europe. The people of Ukraine have our unwavering support.

"As we monitor developments, we will be especially mindful of the potential for cyber attacks and disinformation emanating from Russia.

"Be in no doubt there is work ongoing across government 24/7 to maximise our resilience to any such attacks, which would be met with a suitably robust response."

Irish premier Micheal Martin has condemned the Russian assault on Ukraine.

In a specially convened press conference at Government Buildings, he called the actions of Russia "an outrageous and moral breach of the most fundamental and basic principles of international law".

The Taoiseach promised a strong response from the European Union.

"Our thoughts must be with the innocent people of Ukraine at this, their most difficult hour.

"We stand with them."

(Corrected repetition: Amends spelling to 'secretary' in first par)

Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine as a "blatant violation" of international law.

Speaking at Nato headquarters in Brussels, Mr Stoltenberg said he was calling a virtual summit of alliance leaders on Friday to discuss the "serious threat" to security in the region.

"This is a grave moment of the security of Europe. Russia's unprovoked and unjustified attack on Ukraine is putting countless lives at risk," he said.

"This is a deliberate, cold-blooded and long planned invasion.

"It is a blatant violation of international law, an act of aggression against a sovereign, independent and peaceful country and a serious threat to Euro-Atlantic security."

At a press conference in Dublin, Micheal Martin said the EU would introduce "severe" sanctions against Russian leaders.

"As a small country in particular, today's use of brute force in pursuit of a warped perception of national interest is a serious affront."

He said Europe was dealing with the "most grave security situation it has faced in decades, with repercussions for global security and the world economy".

"It cannot and it will not go unanswered. President Putin and those who support him will be held accountable.

"This evening, I will join with our partners in the European Union in Brussels to adopt the most severe package of sanctions we have ever considered.

"They will be aimed to hit Putin and his henchmen where it hurts the most.

"EU sanctions will target strategic sectors of the Russian economy, blocking access to markets and to technologies."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the UK and the world cannot allow Ukraine's freedom to be "snuffed out".

He said: "A vast invasion is under way by land, by sea and by air. And this is not, in the infamous phrase, some faraway country of which we know little.

"We have Ukrainian friends in this country, neighbours, co-workers. Ukraine is a country that for decades has enjoyed freedom and democracy, and the right to choose its own destiny.

"We and the world cannot allow that freedom just to be snuffed out. We cannot and will not just look away."

Boris Jonson said the "hideous and barbaric venture" of Russian President Vladimir Putin "must end in failure".

He said: "It's because we've been so alarmed in recent months at Russian intimidation that the UK became one of the first countries in Europe to send defensive weaponry to help the Ukrainians.

"Other allies have now done the same and we will do what more we can in the days ahead.

"Today, in concert with our allies we will agree a massive package of economic sanctions designed in time to hobble the Russian economy. And to that end, we must also collectively cease the dependence on Russian oil and gas that for too long has given Putin his grip on Western politics.

"Our mission is clear. Diplomatically, politically, economically, and eventually, militarily, this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure."

Boris Johnson said the Putin regime would be condemned to "pariah status" after unleashing a "tidal wave of violence" against Ukraine.

In his address to the nation, the Prime Minister said the UK stood with Ukraine in its "moment of agony".

"I say to the Ukrainians in this moment of agony, we are with you. We are praying for you and your families, and we are on your side," he said.

"If the months ahead are grim and the flame of freedom burns low, I know that it will blaze bright again in Ukraine.

"For all his bombs and tanks and missiles, I don't believe the Russian dictator will ever subdue the national feeling of the Ukrainians and their passionate belief that their country should be free."

Russian President Vladimir Putin has chosen "a path of bloodshed and destruction" in invading Ukraine, foreign minister Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon has told Parliament.

Speaking in the House of Lords, the Tory frontbencher said: "The United Kingdom strongly condemns the appalling, unprovoked attack President Putin has launched on the people of Ukraine.

"President Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction by launching this unprovoked attack on Ukraine.

"The United Kingdom remains firmly committed to the Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally-recognised borders."

Mr Johnson concluded by saying: "I say to the British people, and all who have heard the threats from Putin against those who stand with Ukraine, we will, of course, do everything to keep our country safe."

He added: "We will work with them, for however long it takes, to ensure that the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine is restored.

"Because this act of wanton and reckless aggression is an attack not just on Ukraine, it's an attack on democracy and freedom in eastern Europe, and around the world.

"This crisis is about the right of a free, sovereign, independent European people to choose their own future.

"That is a right that the UK will always defend."

Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Russia had "shut the door to a political solution".

Asked if he would still be open for talks with Moscow, he said: "We have reached out to Russia for weeks and months.

"What we have seen is that the Russian message has been that they actually have never taken these talks seriously."

He added: "Russia has shut the door to a political solution, we regret that but that's sadly the reality which has severe and very serious consequences for the people of Ukraine, but also actually impacts the security for all us."

Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has said any attack by Russia on an alliance member would be regarded as an attack on all.

Speaking at Nato headquarters in Brussels, Mr Stoltenberg said: "Nato's core task is to protect and defend all allies. There must be no room for miscalculation or misunderstanding.

"An attack on one will be regarded as an attack on all. This is our collective security guarantee."

He said Nato ambassadors had agreed to activate the alliance's defence plans, enabling it to deploy forces to where they are needed.

"This is a prudent and defensive step to protect and shield allied nations during this crisis," he said.

He said there were more than 100 jets at high alert protecting alliance airspace with more than 120 ships at sea, from the High North to the Mediterranean.

"All this shows that our collective defence commitment - Article 5 - is iron clad. We will continue to do everything that is necessary to shield the alliance from aggression," he said.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the Russian government has shown it was "never serious about engaging in diplomacy".

She said: "Russia's assault on Ukraine is an unprovoked, premeditated attack against a sovereign democratic state.

"The UK and our international partners stand united in condemning the Russian government's reprehensible actions, which are an egregious violation of international law and the UN Charter.

"Over recent weeks, the Russian government have repeatedly denied their hostile intent towards Ukraine. At the same time, they have massed troops, launched cyber-attacks and staged false pretexts and provocations.

"Today, the Russian government has shown that it was never serious about engaging in diplomacy - focused only on deceit and furthering their territorial ambitions."

Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has been branded a "war crime" by veteran diplomat Lord Hannay of Chiswick.

Speaking in Parliament, the independent crossbencher, who served as UK ambassador to both the EU and UN, said: "Will the minister not agree that this demonstrates what some of us have said all along, that the question of Ukraine's Nato status has always been a smokescreen, a pretence, by Russia, which is in fact determined to destabilise Ukraine and prevent it becoming a stable democratic country?

"If that is the case, I hope that we will hear from him and other ministers how we are going to respond to what is, after all, a war of choice, a war of aggression and thus a war crime?"

Referring to the Russian leader, foreign minister Lord Ahmad said: "He went to the brink and he has now stepped over the line."

In a change to scheduled business on Friday, peers will now debate the attack on Ukraine.

Vladimir Putin must "feel the wrath of the democratic world" after Russia mounted a "full-scale invasion" of Ukraine, Nicola Sturgeon has said.

The Scottish First Minister said that Russian military action there meant that Ukraine's "very existence as an independent democracy was now under attack".

Speaking at First Minister's Questions at Holyrood, Ms Sturgeon said she "wanted to condemn in the strongest possible terms the unprovoked, imperialist aggression of Vladimir Putin".

She said: "There can be no doubt he must face the severest of consequences.

"Sanctions on him and his network of oligarch and agents, their expulsion from countries across the world, sanctions on his banks and their ability to borrow and function, sanctions on his energy and mineral companies, and here in the UK immediate clean-up of the swirl of dirty Russian money in the city of London.

"But just as Putin must face and feel the wrath of the democratic world, the people of Ukraine must feel and not just hear our support and our solidarity."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK, along with its allies and partners, will "hold the Russian government to account".

"We are urgently convening discussions with our allies and partners to co-ordinate our response. Together we will hold the Russian government to account," she said.

"We have always been clear there would be massive consequences and a severe cost for any Russian military incursion into Ukraine. As a result of their actions, we will today launch an unprecedented package of further sanctions that we have developed with our international partners.

"We will continue to support the Ukrainian government in the face of this assault on their sovereignty and territorial integrity.

"The UK and the international community stand against this naked aggression and for freedom, democracy, and the sovereignty of nations around the world. We hold the people of Ukraine in our hearts and minds at this terrible moment in their nation's history."

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said that "the world must now help and equip Ukraine to defend itself and resist Russian aggression".

The Scottish First Minister added: "We must ensure humanitarian aid and assistance, and we must all stand ready to offer refuge and sanctuary wherever necessary for those who may be displaced."

She continued: "This is a critical juncture in history, perhaps the most dangerous and potentially most defining moment since the Second World War.

"We live in this moment but it is true to say historic precedence will be set in the hours and days to come. These will determine the new norms of what is acceptable or not in our international order."

Video available: Boris Johnson vows to 'hobble' Russia with sanctions over Ukraine invasion

Nicola Sturgeon has hit out at Russian President Vladimir Putin, branding him an "autocrat".

She added: "His control of the apparatus of state and the economy and the military and the media can make his power seem impregnable.

"But, as with most strong men leaders, underneath the veneer of power lies insecurity and fear. Fear of democracy, of freedom, fear of the kind of popular uprisings witnessed over recent years in Ukraine ever happening in Russia."

She said the "anti-Putin forces within Russia" must have "encouragement and moral support", as she made clear this was a critical moment.

"Future generations will judge the actions the world takes in this moment," Ms Sturgeon said.

"There are, of course, many complexities but at its most fundamental this is a clash between oppression and autocracy on the one hand, and freedom and democracy on the other.

"We must all ensure that freedom and democracy prevail."

Chancellor Rishi Sunak has said the UK will bring "significant" further sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

"The whole world is rightly appalled at Russia's aggression," he said as he delivered the Mais Lecture at the Bayes Business School in London.

"When the freedom of one democratic nation is threatened, wherever they may be in the world, democracy everywhere is challenged.

"We must apply severe economic costs to these actions and you can expect significant further sanctions to be brought forward."

Mr Sunak said he had spoken to Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey on Thursday morning and is tracking energy markets.

"We are with Ukraine and its people at this difficult time," he added.

The Ministry of Defence tweeted: "Russia has today further violated Ukrainian sovereignty. There are no justifications for this."

In an "intelligence update", it said there had been "more than 80 strikes" against targets in Ukraine.

It added that Russian ground forces are advancing across the border "on at least three axes", from the north, east, and south from Crimea.

The Liberal Democrats called for Parliament to sit through the weekend, "day and night" if necessary, to pass the strongest possible sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

Leader Sir Ed Davey said: "We must stand with the people of Ukraine and provide them with humanitarian and military aid while unleashing the severest of sanctions against Putin and his cronies.

"The era of Russian interference in this country must come to an end. Much of the legislation needed is ready to go - it must be brought before MPs immediately.

"Parliament must sit this weekend, day and night if we have to, to pass the necessary measures and impose the most punitive of sanctions upon Putin's regime."

Downing Street said the UK is providing "defensive military capability" to Ukraine.

The Prime Minister said earlier in an address to the nation: "Our mission is clear. Diplomatically, politically, economically, and eventually militarily, this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure."

Asked was what meant by "militarily" in this context, the PM's official spokesman said: "He's making the point that ... our expectation is that the Ukrainian people will fight, will engage with Russian forces ... we are providing military, defensive military capability."

Downing Street said the UK is increasing its "air policing contribution" to Nato.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We are increasing our air policing contribution to Nato from RAF Akrotiri and the UK to help protect our Nato allies.

"So, two typhoons and a voyager for refuelling from the UK will support continuous Nato air policing over Poland's border with Ukraine ... two typhoons and a voyager for refuelling from Akrotiri (will) also support continuous Nato air policing over Romania's border with Ukraine.

"So, this is a defensive capability designed to protect the airspace of our Nato allies ... they will not operate in Ukrainian or Russian airspace.

"Just to emphasise, this isn't additional air support, this is the air support already committed to Nato doing additional activities."

Downing Street would not be drawn on the claims about Roman Abramovich made in the Commons.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "I couldn't comment on individuals in that way or on leaked documents of that type."

He added that Mr Johnson "will set out a significant package of sanctions later today".

Boris Johnson has discussed the "chilling developments" in Ukraine with the Norwegian prime minister.

A Downing Street spokesperson said: "Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke to the Prime Minister of Norway Jonas Store today.

"The leaders discussed the chilling developments overnight and the Prime Minister said he believed the full and violent invasion of Ukraine we have witnessed signalled a dark time for Europe and a disaster for the world.

"Both updated on their planned sanctions to punish Russia for its appalling actions, and agreed on the need for continued co-ordination on economic measures to ensure they have maximum impact.

"The Norwegian prime minister said he looked forward to hosting UK armed forces in Norway in the coming weeks as part of the long-planned military exercise Cold Response.

"The leaders agreed to stay in close contact in the coming days."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer called for the firmest possible sanctions to be taken against the Putin regime to see its "ability to function crippled".

In a televised address, he said: "We must make a clean break with the failed approach to handling Putin, which after Georgia, Crimea and Donbas fed his belief that the benefits of aggression outweigh the cost.

"We must finally show him he is wrong.

"That means doing all we can to help Ukraine defend herself, urgently reinforcing and reassuring our Nato allies in eastern Europe and the hardest possible sanctions must be taken against the Putin regime.

"It must be isolated, its finances frozen, its ability to function crippled."

He added: "And there are changes we must make here in the UK. For too long our country has been a safe-haven for the money that Putin and his fellow bandits gained by stealing from the Russian people. It must end now."

Sir Keir Starmer has said the UK must be braced for "economic pain" as it feels repercussions from sanctions against Russia.

In a televised address, the Labour leader said: "We must prepare ourselves for difficulties here. We will see economic pain as we free Europe from dependence on Russian gas and clean our institutions from money stolen from the Russian people.

"But the British public have always been willing to make sacrifice to defend democracy on our continent and we will again."

Sir Keir Starmer said Vladimir Putin's "bandit rule" must fail.

The Labour leader added: "This must be a turning point in our history. We must look back and say that this terrible day was actually when Putin doomed himself to defeat.

"He seeks division, so we must stay united. He hopes for inaction, so we must take a stand. He believes that we are too corrupted to do the right thing, so we must prove him wrong. I believe we can, but only if we stand together."

Boris Johnson has stressed that "Western inaction or under-reaction would have unthinkable consequences" in a call with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.

He welcomed Germany's decision to cancel certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia, which was seen as a major economic blow to Moscow.

But he said allies "must now make a concerted effort to bring the strongest possible sanctions to bear on the Putin regime", according to a Downing Street spokesperson.

"The Prime Minister said that President Putin must fail and achieving that will require the Western world to isolate him both politically and economically," the spokesperson said.

"The Prime Minister welcomed Germany's decision to suspend the Nord Stream 2 pipeline but said that allies must now make a concerted effort to bring the strongest possible sanctions to bear on the Putin regime.

"The Prime Minister underscored that Western inaction or under-reaction would have unthinkable consequences. The leaders agreed to stay in close contact and to discuss our response further in this afternoon's meeting of G7 leaders."

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK, Vadym Prystaiko, called for a no-fly zone to be put in place over his country.

Speaking to journalists in London, Mr Prystaiko said the country wanted "something which only Nato can provide" and that was a no-fly zone over the country.

Mr Prystaiko said anti-tank weapons supplied by the UK had been used against Russian tanks on Thursday, as he called on Nato to send troops into Ukraine.

He said "we should have started much earlier, maybe decades ago" to prepare for Russian aggression.

"That's why we've been trying to get into Nato (for) all these years," he said. "Because we always believed this would come."

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK, Vadym Prystaiko, outlined a number of economic sanctions that his country wished to see put in place.

He called on allies to stop buying Russian oil and gas, and to ban foreign investment in Russia, including stopping western Government pension funds being invested in Russian assets.

He called on the West to sanction the Russian Central Bank, as well as state-owned and private banks, and to sanction all rouble transactions in western banks.

He said Russia should be blocked from the Swift payment system, and disconnected from Visa and Mastercard systems.

He said personal sanctions should also be expanded to all those on the sanctions lists of western countries, and their families, including asset freezing, visa cancellations, revoking their passports, and sending them back to Russia.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss told Russian ambassador to the UK Andrei Kelin that Moscow should expect a "long, protracted conflict" with vast costs.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "The Foreign Secretary said the Russian government had repeatedly lied about having no plans to invade Ukraine, and its unprovoked aggression had made it an international pariah.

"She condemned Russia's outrageous attack on Ukraine as a clear breach of international law.

"She reiterated there would be severe sanctions in retribution for the invasion, which will inflict pain on the Russian economy and those closely associated with the Kremlin.

"She added that Russia should expect a long, protracted conflict that would inflict a huge human, economic and political cost on the Russian government. She said allies and partners are united in support for Ukraine, providing economic and defensive support."

A Ministry of Defence intelligence update at 4pm said Russian troops based in Belarus were moving towards Kyiv.

The update said: "Russia has conducted an air assault on an airfield on the outskirts of Kyiv" and that "strikes have been delivered through a combination of Russian ground, air and sea-launched missiles and by artillery bombardment".

The update said the strikes had targeted military infrastructure - especially command and control and air defence installations - and that the Ukrainian forces had "put up a staunch resistance and continue to hold key cities".

But it added that "heavy casualties have been suffered on both sides, although exact numbers are currently unclear".

Boris Johnson is to lead another meeting of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee to discuss the Ukraine crisis, followed by a meeting of the Cabinet, Downing Street has said.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Cobra will take place at 7.30pm on Thursday - after his Commons statement - with Cabinet following at 8.30pm.

The spokesman said Whitehall departments - including No 10 - will fly the Ukrainian flag and will be lit up in yellow and blue on Thursday evening in a gesture of solidarity.

The scale and speed of the military threat mobilised by Russia has created a level of fear among the civilian population in Ukraine never before witnessed by aid workers, a senior humanitarian charity official has said.

James Denselow, head of conflict and humanitarian policy at Save The Children, also told the PA news agency that the "360-degrees" threat to the country means "there is no safe place" in Ukraine and the huge level of uncertainty will severely hamper initial efforts to protect children.

When asked about the experience of Save The Children staff currently in Ukraine, he said: "The one thing I would stress is the type of fear I have heard of from our controllers team and anyone involved in programming (relief efforts) is like nothing I have seen before.

"It is linked to the scale of what is happening. I have not in my lifetime had to deal with looking at the levels of armour and attack helicopters and so on engaged in this in the space of a few hours.

"We have never seen anything like that in decades."

President Putin is a "bloodstained aggressor" who was "always determined" to attack Ukraine, the Prime Minister has said.

Updating the Commons on his talks with G7 leaders and Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg on Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Boris Johnson said: "Putin will stand condemned in the eyes of the world and of history. He will never be able to cleanse the blood of Ukraine from his hands.

"Although the UK and our allies tried every avenue for diplomacy until the final hour, I am driven to conclude that Putin was always determined to attack his neighbour, no matter what we did."

The Prime Minister added: "Now we see him for what he is - a bloodstained aggressor, who believes in imperial conquest."

Boris Johnson told the Commons: "Overall we'll be imposing asset freezes on more than 100 new entities and individuals, on top of the hundreds we've already announced.

"This includes all the major manufacturers that support Putin's war machine.

"Furthermore, we're also banning Aeroflot from the UK."

Boris Johnson said "this hideous and barbarous venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure".

The Prime Minister said: "I am proud that Britain did everything within our power to help Ukraine prepare for this onslaught and we will do our utmost to offer more help as our brave friends defend their homeland."

He said the UK ambassador continues to work from the embassy in Lviv.

He said the G7 agreed to work in unity to "maximise the economic price that Putin will pay for his aggression", saying that must include "ending Europe's collective dependence on Russian oil and gas that has served to empower Putin for too long".

He also said "countries that together comprise about half the world economy are now engaged in maximising economic pressure on one that makes up a mere 2%".

G7 leaders have condemned Russia's "unprovoked and completely unjustified attack" on Ukraine as a "serious violation" of international law.

In a statement following a conference call by the heads of the leading industrial nations including Boris Johnson, they called on President Putin to withdraw his forces.

"This crisis is a serious threat to the rules-based international order, with ramifications well beyond Europe," the said in a joint statement.

"There is no justification for changing internationally recognised borders by force. This has fundamentally changed the Euro/Atlantic security situation.

"President Putin has re-introduced war to the European continent. He has put himself on the wrong side of history.

"We call on the Russian Federation to stop the bloodshed, to immediately de-escalate and to withdraw its forces from Ukraine."

Boris Johnson said, in full concert with the US and EU, the UK will introduce "new trade restrictions and stringent export controls".

He said: "We will bring forward new legislation to ban the export of all dual-use items to Russia, including a range of high-end and critical technological equipment and components in sectors including electronics, telecommunications and aerospace."

Mr Johnson said legislation to implement this will be laid in Parliament "early next week".

The Prime Minister added: "These trade sanctions will constrain Russia's military, industrial and technological capabilities for years to come."

He said measures on unexplained wealth orders from the Economic Crime Bill will be brought forward and introduced before the Easter recess.

Boris Johnson said sanctions would be applied to Belarus.

The Prime Minister said: "The UK is announcing the largest and most severe package of economic sanctions that Russia has ever seen."

He said: "We're taking new powers to target Russian finance in addition to the banks we've already sanctioned this week. Today in concert with the United States we are proposing a full asset freeze on VTB."

He said the powers will allow the UK to "totally to exclude Russian banks from the UK financial system" and stop them from accessing sterling and clearing payments through the UK. He said about half of Russia's trade is in dollars and sterling, and said the US is taking similar measures to the UK.

He said: "These powers will also enable us to ban Russian state and private companies from raising funds in the UK, banning dealing with their securities and making loans to them.

"We will limit the amount of money that Russian nationals will be able to deposit in their UK bank accounts and sanctions will also be applied to Belarus for its role in the assault on Ukraine."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the Government will do "everything possible" to safeguard "our own people" from the repercussions of the invasion on the cost of living.

He said: "Last Saturday, I warned that this invasion would have global economic consequences and this morning the oil price has risen strong. The Government will do everything possible to safeguard our own people from the repercussions for the cost of living.

"And of course, we stand ready to protect our country from any threats including in cyberspace."

Boris Johnson said the Economic Crime Bill will include reforms to Companies House and a register of overseas property ownership, while a "new dedicated kleptocracy cell" will be set up in the National Crime Agency.

He said: "That means oligarchs in London will have nowhere to hide.

"I know that this House will have great interest in the potential of cutting Russia out from Swift. I can confirm, as I've always said, nothing is off the table."

He said for these measures to be successful, it is "vital" to have the "unity of our partners" such as the G7 adding "Russian investors are already delivering their verdict on the wisdom of Putin's actions."

"So far today Russian stocks are down by as much 45%, wiping 250 billion dollars from their value."

BBC journalist Clive Myrie has said "anything can happen" in a warzone, after his broadcast from the capital of Kyiv was interrupted by an air-raid siren.

The 57-year-old told the PA news agency that his first responsibility is "to the viewers" to report comprehensively on the Russian invasion.

He told the PA news agency: "You've got to be aware that you are in the middle of a warzone, a live warzone and anything could happen.

"None of us are stupid enough to stay out there reporting while bullets are raining down that would be madness and frankly no story is worth that, but the advice was we could still keep broadcasting as long as we took the minimal protection of putting on safety gear.

"So that's what we did and it meant we could continue telling the story, getting that across to our viewers so that they understand what is going on.

"There are still people here who we have spoken too who want to stay, they believe that a peaceful solution can be found and they hope there can be some kind or resolution that doesn't mean they have to leave their homes and their families, but a lot of other people are voting with their feet and their worst nightmares have basically come true."

Boris Johnson told MPs: "We will continue on a remorseless mission to squeeze Russia from the global economy piece by piece, day by day and week by week.

"We will of course use Britain's position in every international forum to condemn the onslaught against Ukraine and we will counter the Kremlin's blizzard of lies and disinformation by telling the truth about Putin's war of choice and his war of aggression.

"And we will work with our allies on the urgent need to protect other European countries that are not members of Nato and who could become targets of Putin's playbook of subversion and aggression.

"And we will resist any creeping temptation to accept what Putin is doing today as a fait accompli. There can be no creeping normalisation, not now, not in the months to come, not in the years ahead, we must strengthen Nato's defences still further."

Boris Johnson said the "steadfast and unflinching goal" of the United Kingdom will be to see Vladimir Putin's "squalid" venture fail.

Speaking in the Commons he said: "Above all, the House will realise the hard and heavy truth that we now live in a continent where an expansionist power, deploying one of the world's most formidable machines, is trying to redraw the map of Europe in blood and conquer an independent state by force of arms.

"And it's vital for the safety of every nation that Putin's squalid venture should ultimately fail and be seen to fail. However long it takes, that will be the steadfast and unflinching goal of the United Kingdom, I hope of every member of this House and everyone of our great allies. Certain that together we have the power and the will to defend the cause of peace and justice as we have always done."

Addressing the people of Russia, Mr Johnson added: "I cannot believe that this horror is being done in your name or that you really want the pariah status that these actions will bring to the Putin's regime."

Mr Johnson went on: "And to our Ukrainian friends, in this moment of agony, I say that we are with you and we are on your side. Your right to choose your own destiny is a right that the United Kingdom and our allies will always defend. In that spirit, I join you in saying 'Slava Ukraini' and I commend the statement to the House."

The Government needs to "crack open" the shell companies that Putin's "bandit" friends use to hide stolen money in the UK, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said.

After giving his backing to the new measures and sanctions outlined by the Prime Minister, Sir Keir called for further aid, including humanitarian support for Ukraine.

The Labour leader added: "There are changes we must make here in the UK. For too long our country has been a safe haven for the money that Putin and his fellow bandits stole from the Russian people. It must now change.

"Cracking open the shell companies in which stolen money is hidden will require legislation - bring it forward immediately Prime Minister and Labour will support it, along with the other measures that the Prime Minister has just outlined."

Home Secretary Priti Patel said: "Monday."

Sir Keir replied: "Thank you, and we will support it."

Boris Johnson said the UK will support Ukrainians "economically, diplomatically, politically, and yes militarily as well, and I know that in due time we will succeed", as he closed his speech to the Commons.

Events will show that President Putin has "profoundly miscalculated" by invading Ukraine, Boris Johnson said.

The Prime Minister said: "We will bring our allies together to protect Nato, to show that President Putin will get a tougher Western alliance as a result of his actions, not a weaker Western alliance, and I think that events will show that the Russian president has profoundly miscalculated.

"He believes that he is doing this for his own political advantage, I believe the exact opposite will prove to be the case because of the resistance that will be mounted against what he is doing, not just in Ukraine but around the world."

Concluding his reply to the Prime Minister's update on Ukraine, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer had earlier said: "This must be a turning point in history. We must look back and say that this terrible day was actually when Putin doomed himself and doomed his plan to reassert Russian force as a means of controlling Eastern Europe to defeat.

"We know how Putin operates, so we know how to defeat him. He seeks division so we must stand united. He hopes for inaction, so we must take a stand. He believes that we are too corrupted to do the right thing, so we must prove him wrong."

Discussing the sanctions on oligarchs, a diplomatic source said: "These are people who have international lifestyles.

"They come to Harrods to shop, they stay in our best hotels when they like, they send their children to our best public schools, and that is what's being stopped.

"So that these people are essentially persona non grata in every major western European capital in the world. That really bites."

Conservative former prime minister Theresa May said Russia needs to feel "the cold wind of isolation".

Lady May welcomed the statement and said the House and country are "united in our defence of democracy and our support for the Ukrainian people".

She said: "Vladimir Putin has initiated war in mainland Europe, the response must be unequivocal and absolutely clear."

She asked the Prime Minister to confirm the Government is putting in place "every possible possible economic sanction so that Russia feels absolutely the cold wind of isolation and the Russian people understand that Vladimir Putin has brought their state to a pariah state".

Boris Johnson replied: "She is absolutely right about what the Government is setting out to do and I do indeed believe that that will be the result for Putin and his cronies."

Boris Johnson has told the Ukrainian president it "might be necessary for him to find a safe place for him and his cabinet to go", adding the UK would give support to a government in exile.

Conservative MP Julian Lewis, who chairs the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament, said: "For the best part of 50 years, Britain gave sanctuary to the governments in exile of the occupied Baltic states.

"If, as appears likely, Ukraine gets overwhelmed, will we offer to give sanctuary to a government in exile pending Ukraine's future freedom?"

Mr Johnson replied: "Of course we will give all support that we can - logistical or otherwise - as Britain always has done to governments in exile.

"One of the points I made to President Zelensky this morning was it might be necessary for him to find a safe place for him and his cabinet to go."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford said Vladimir Putin is a "dictator, he is an imperialist, he is a tyrant".

Mr Blackford said "our thoughts and our support" are with the Ukrainian people, and described "acts of Russian violence, aggression and tyranny" and a "full-scale invasion" and "an act of war".

He said: "This is first and foremost an unprovoked attack on the peace and the innocence of Ukraine and of its people. But it's equally an attack on international law, an attack on our European democracy, an attack on the peace that our continent has so carefully built over the last 75 years.

"President Putin and President Putin alone bears responsibility for these horrific acts. And it is he and his Kremlin cabal who must pay a massive price for their actions.

"It is important to say to the Russian people that we know that Putin is not acting in their name. He is a dictator, he is an imperialist, he is a tyrant. He is as much a threat to his own people as he is to all of us."

Former Scottish first minister Alex Salmond is to suspend his TV show on Russia Today "until further notice" in response to the invasion of Ukraine.

Mr Salmond, a former SNP leader who now heads the Alba Party, said: "There is no productive point in having the future of a television show dominate Prime Minister's Questions as it did yesterday, when politicians should be rising to the occasion of the great issues of peace in Europe."

In a statement he confirmed the production company Slainte Media "have decided to suspend the Alex Salmond Show broadcast on RT until further notice".

Mr Salmond said: "We now have the worst of all fears - a hot war in Europe.

"The efforts of every single person should be to re-establish the peace.

"That certainly is our focus, and therefore Slainte Media have decided to suspend the Alex Salmond Show until that can be secured."

Labour MPs who signed a letter from the Stop The War Coalition have been told to withdraw their signatures, the PA news agency understands.

Some 11 Labour MPs signed the open letter, which criticised the defensive alliance of Nato.

PA understands that the 11 MPs have been contacted by the shadow chief whip and if they refuse to withdraw their names, they will lose the whip.

The letter was signed by Diane Abbott, John McDonnell, Richard Burgon, Ian Lavery, Beth Winter, Zarah Sultana, Bell Ribeiro-Addy, Apsana Begum, Mick Whitley, Tahir Ali, and Ian Mearns.

Former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn also signed the letter, as did MP Claudia Webbe, both of whom now sit as independents.

Conservative MP Tom Tugendhat, who chairs the Foreign Affairs Committee, urged Boris Johnson to take action against those "enabling Putin's economy" - including those who sit on the boards of the businesses that finance the Russian president's regime.

He said: "May I ask him to look here, close to home at those who enable, who propagate the propaganda that is being used by Putin to undermine his own people and free people everywhere, and to update the Treason Act so that we can identify them and call them what they are: traitors."

Mr Johnson said the UK has to look at "those who abet the Putin regime".

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford said: "Let's not fall for the Kremlin propaganda that they are prepared to soak up any sanctions. If we act now, if the sanctions are targeted enough, swift enough, severe enough, if we impose nothing less than economic isolation, Putin and his cronies will suffer the consequences of their actions."

He said "this is a moment for unity" asked if the objective is the "complete economic isolation" of Russia.

He said that "must include sanctions on Putin and his network of oligarchs and agents, their expulsion from countries around the world, sanctions on his banks, and their ability to borrow and function, and sanctions on his energy and mineral companies".

He reiterated "it must finally mean clearing up the sewer of dirty Russian money that has been running through the City of London for years".

He said "I know all the complications involved" but asked that Russia is suspended from the Swift payment system "one of the steps that would hit the Putin regime the hardest".

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey said: "The West cannot be complacent any longer. So will the Government reverse its proposed troop cuts to the British Army and offer far greater military support to our Nato allies in eastern Europe?"

He added: "The world must isolate Russia like the rogue state it is, including the state-backed oil giant Rosneft - 20% owned by BP. So will the Prime Minister commit to banning UK investment in Russian oil and gas companies with immediate effect?"

Boris Johnson said countries must move away from being dependent on Russian oil and gas, adding other European countries are in a "much more exposed position" than the UK.

He went on to defend the UK's military contribution to allies in eastern Europe, but did not address the call to halt troop cuts.

A Labour MP has called for a "negotiated settlement" with Russia and not an "escalation of military means".

Norwich South MP Clive Lewis told the Commons: "The warm words will not defend the Ukrainian people, I have been speaking to people who had been liaising with Ukrainian trade unionists, people who have been fighting privatisation and wage cuts but they say one thing that they will not run from their homes, they will defend their families, those people need to be able to defend themselves so I support the Prime Minister's assertion that we will be providing more defensive capabilities for that end.

"But let me say one thing, will you agree Prime Minister that we must have an end to this by a negotiated settlement and not by an escalation of military means?"

The opposition benches could be heard shouting "shame", as the Prime Minister replied: "I think the whole House and everybody in the world would want President Putin to have chosen the path of negotiation. He had that moment. And that's why if you remember we had that discussion in this House on Tuesday about that perilous moment which we all discussed. He had that opportunity.

"I'm afraid he's missed it. He's chosen the path of overwhelming violence and destruction. And I'm afraid that puts us on a very, very different course. And we have to accept that reality."

Conservative former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt said that while sanctions are "extremely welcome", it "cannot be just economic measures".

Mr Hunt told MPs: "Does the Prime Minister agree that the international order as envisaged in the Atlantic Charter of 1941 has been the most successful in the history of freedom and democracy and as one of the architects of that order, we have a special responsibility to defend it?

"And whilst today's sanctions are extremely welcome, it cannot just be economic measures. We need a fundamental review of our military capability, including revisiting the Integrated Review whose assumptions may now be out of date."

Boris Johnson replied: "The Integrated Review begins with the assertion that the most important area for national security is the Euro-Atlantic areas and that remains fundamental and that's why we've continued with the investment that we have in Nato.

"We are the second biggest funder of Nato, but he's right in what he says about what's at stake. This is about the whole idea of that wonderful thing that was so inspiring and some of us we were young, of a Europe whole and free, that fantastic revolution that happened in 1989 and 1990 when communism fell.

"It was a it was a great moment for humanity, and we mustn't allow it to slip through our fingers."

Ukrainians in the UK will have their visas temporarily extended or changed in the wake of Russia's invasion of their home country, Home Secretary Priti Patel has confirmed.

Those on work, study or visit visas will be able to extend their leave in the UK or, in some circumstances, change the type of visa they have without needing to leave the country.

Ms Patel said: "We stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine amid this unprovoked and antidemocratic act of Russian aggression.

"I have immediately ordered changes to our visa policy to provide certainty to our Ukrainian friends and colleagues living, working and studying in the UK."

The Prime Minister apologised and corrected himself after he named Alex Salmond as the "former leader of the Scottish Nationalist Party".

Alba MP Neale Hanvey (Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath) told the Prime Minister he was still "hoping for a diplomatic solution" in Ukraine.

He added: "However, my party and I condemn the escalating Russian aggression. This is a fluid and developing situation and we are now in uncharted territory.

"I can update the House that whilst there have been calls in this place for Alex Salmond to cease broadcasting on Russia Today, negotiations have obviously been happening in the background and I can confirm that he is suspending broadcasting."

Boris Johnson replied: "I must say I disagree profoundly with what he has had to say about negotiating now. I don't think that that option is open to us. We must do our best to support and protect the people of Ukraine and work with our international friends and allies to constrict what Vladimir Putin can do."

He added: "On his point about Russia Today, I simply observe that the former leader of the Scottish Nationalist Party is a -"

Conservative MP Andrew Bowie (West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine) then corrected the Prime Minister from the Government benches that Mr Salmond is the leader of the Alba party, saying: "His leader."

The Prime Minister said: "I am so sorry, his leader. I understand the pleas he entered in defence and mitigation, they don't seem to cut much ice with me."

The Prime Minister warned that those who order Russian soldiers to kill innocent Ukrainians could one day be brought to court for crimes against humanity or genocide.

Conservative MP Bob Stewart (Beckenham), who is a former United Nations commander who led peacekeeping forces in Bosnia, told the Commons he had given evidence for war crimes trials including where people were charged with genocide and crimes against humanity

He asked the Prime Minister to agree with him that "any Russian who kills a Ukrainian must remember that one day they may well be brought to court for crimes against humanity or genocide".

The Prime Minister said: "Yes, and not just any Russian combatant but anyone who sends a Russian into battle to kill innocent Ukrainians."

Costs and economic difficulties for the UK as a result of standing up to Russia will be a "price worth paying", the Prime Minister has said.

Conservative former minister Stephen Crabb asked: "Does the Prime Minister agree with me that if sanctions are really to bite on Putin and his gangster government, then inevitably it will mean cost and inconvenience to UK economic interests, but that cost and inconvenience will be of nothing compared to what the people of Ukraine are going through, and we stand with them this evening?"

Boris Johnson replied: "I am afraid he right. It will mean cost, it will mean inconvenience, it will mean difficulty for us in the UK, but that will be a price worth paying for defeating the objectives of Vladimir Putin and showing that aggression does not pay."

The Prime Minister responded to the question of a no-fly zone over Ukraine by saying "we would face the risk of having to shoot down Russian planes and that is something that I think the House would want to contemplate with caution."

Conservative MP and former party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith said: "With Ukrainian men and women dying to fight against the Russians for their freedom today, those who are calling for negotiation at this point can only please that rambling wreck of a neo-Nazi sitting in the Kremlin and they should be shunned."

He also said the Ukrainian ambassador "asked desperately whether Nato would look at a no-fly zone".

"I know it's a difficult choice" he said, but asked the Prime Minister to say "in this particular case, he rules nothing out".

Boris Johnson said: "I understand the attractions of the no-fly zone".

But he said the situation is "very different" to 1991 in Iraq, and said: "We would face the risk of having to shoot down Russian planes and that is something that I think the House would want to contemplate with caution."

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said he has signed restrictions prohibiting all scheduled Russian airlines from entering UK airspace or touching down on British soil.

In a statement posted on Twitter, Mr Shapps said: "Putin's heinous actions will not be ignored, and we will never tolerate those who put people's lives in danger."

The move is part of the package of sanctions announced by Boris Johnson in the Commons following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

The Prime Minister suggested emergency legislation for economic crime measures would be brought forward on Monday.

Conservative former minister MP Sir Robert Buckland said "we need to build upon the outcome of our integrated defence review, we do need to think differently about Eastern Europe".

Addressing "economic crime measures", he said it seems that there is a consensus in the House to bring forward "emergency legislation to bring those important measures to really hit those people hard and hit them now".

Boris Johnson said: "I think that that is clearly the will of the House and it is the will of the Government and that's why we will be taking those important measures, bringing them forward on Monday."

Boris Johnson, pressed to work with allies to set out how war crimes will be prosecuted, told the Commons: "We're working on setting up a particular international war crimes tribunal for those involved in war crimes in the Ukraine theatre."

Asked about Russian submarine activity and the risk to subsea cables, Mr Johnson said: "There is a continual struggle going on beneath the surface of the sea between submarines that are out to sever cables and those of us trying to make sure those links are maintained."

On whether the Uefa Champions League Final should take place in St Petersburg in May, Mr Johnson said: "I cannot for the life of me see how that can currently go ahead."

SDLP leader Colum Eastwood described Russian President Vladimir Putin as a "gangster and a despot" who aims to "undermine and subvert democracy" across the world, adding: "One of the tools that he uses is through political donations to political parties, including in this country.

"Will the Prime Minister commit today to ridding Russian money out of democracy in this country?"

Mr Johnson replied: "Yes, of course."

The Prime Minister confirmed that the Government plans to sanction state-owned Russian banks such as Sberbank and Gazprombank.

Labour MP Rushanara Ali (Bethnal Green and Bow) asked if Mr Johnson could confirm whether he "plans to sanction the major state-owned Russian banks such as Sberbank and Gazprombank", and other non-state institutions.

The Prime Minister said: "Yes."

The humanitarian impact of the Russian-Ukraine conflict "threatens to be enormous", Boris Johnson has said.

Labour chairwoman of the International Development Committee Sarah Champion pressed the Prime Minister on the prospect of a Russian invasion triggering a "significant refugee crisis in Europe".

The MP for Rotherham said: "Let us be under no illusion. We are on the brink of a potentially enormous humanitarian crisis that could see massive loss of life and widespread suffering to the Ukrainian people and all to suffer the warped desire complex of the Russian president.

"The attack on Ukraine is also likely to cause mass displacement of people, potentially triggering a significant refugee crisis in Europe. So can the Prime Minister tell us what he is doing to support the Ukrainian people who stay and those who choose to flee?"

Mr Johnson replied: "She makes a very important point and I'm grateful because the humanitarian impact threatens to be enormous and that's why I've said what I've said about supporting those refugees as they come out of Ukraine.

"But we've got to make sure that we do everything we can to stabilise the Ukrainian economy, to support the government as far as we possibly can. Our friends and allies are working with us to do much more."

Boris Johnson said relatives of targets of sanctions will also be sanctioned.

Labour MP Kevan Jones (North Durham) asked for an assurance that "sanctions that are going to target individuals will also target relatives and connected parties".

He mentioned the Economic Crime Bill, the review of the Official Secrets Act, and the Foreign Registration Act, and asked "why can't we bring them forward and do them now? They would get huge support and we've been waiting for some of these for nearly two years".

The Prime Minister said: "We will certainly be making sure that we are able to sanction and do sanction relatives and other interested parties, and there will be a rolling programme of intensifying sanctions."

Labour MP Lloyd Russell-Moyle called the Russian Government the "fascist imperialist Putin regime", while the Prime Minister said he wants to keep embassy staff in Moscow.

Mr Russell-Moyle, the MP for Brighton, Kemptown, said there are "protests in a number of Russian cities" and celebrities there have been speaking out.

"I do hope that we will be offering all the support that we can to those people who are likely to be shunned by the fascist imperialist Putin regime," he said.

Boris Johnson said: "Yes."

He said one of the reasons he wants to keep embassy staff in Moscow "even though the temptation is there simply to sunder diplomatic relations with Putin, I want to keep them there to support groups such as the ones he mentions".

The Prime Minister suggested Russia attacking a Nato country is an "appalling possibility" and said the UK would come to the defence of Nato allies if attacked.

Labour MP Barry Sheerman (Huddersfield) welcomed the sanctions, but said "the record of driving out dictators and demagogues with sanctions isn't always that successful".

He also said he has a "concern" that President Vladimir Putin "might not stop at Ukraine, he might go into a Nato country" and said "many of us think that might be the next step".

Mr Johnson said Mr Sheerman was "absolutely right to raise that appalling possibility" and said "it is vital that we reaffirm again that under Article 5 of the Nato treaty we stand foursquare behind every one of our Nato allies and will come to their defence".

Vladimir Putin must be brought to a court of law and end his days in prison, Labour MP Chris Bryant (Rhondda) has said.

Mr Bryant told the Commons: "The Prime Minister is absolutely right, we equivocated shamelessly after Crimea. We were spineless. We must not be spineless now because what will inevitably happen is either the Baltic states, or one of the members of Nato, or perhaps Sweden or Finland will feel the wrath of Putin next and that will mean British action.

"Don't we need to try and set in train now a process whereby Putin himself ends up in the dock, in a court? Norman Birkett said, who was the alternate British judge at Nuremberg, said at Nuremburg 'initiating a war of aggression is not only an international crime it is the supreme international crime, differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole'.

"He must be brought to a court of law and end his days in prison, mustn't he?"

Boris Johnson replied: "I think one of the most fascinating things about what Putin is doing is how close an analogy there is between his actions and those of Slobodan Milosevic. Exactly the same nonsense being peddled about the mystical union between Kosovo and Belgrade, between Kyiv and Moscow, exactly the same aggression and remember that Slobodan Milosevic died on trial."

Eleven Labour MPs who signed an open letter from the Stop The War Coalition which criticised Nato have now withdrawn their names.

The PA news agency understands they were threatened with the removal of the whip if their names were not taken off the letter.

A Labour spokesperson said: "The small number of Labour MPs that signed the Stop The War statement have all now withdrawn their names.

"This shows Labour is under new management.

"With Keir Starmer's leadership there will never be any confusion about whose side Labour is on - Britain, Nato, freedom and democracy - and every Labour MP now understands that."

Conservative MP Richard Drax (South Dorset) asked Prime Minister Boris Johnson to reassure Nato members that if a Russian boot lands on Nato soil "military force will be met by military force".

Mr Drax said: "None of us know where or what Mr Putin's longer-term aims are. If Ukraine falls, and I fear it might, his covetous eye might land on the Baltic states and other vulnerable countries.

"Can my right honourable friend reassure Nato members that if one Russian boot lands on Nato soil, military force will be met by military force?"

Mr Johnson replied: "What is so encouraging is that the whole House understands the vital importance of that Article 5 guarantee that we make to every one of the 30 members of Nato."

Conservative former cabinet minister Robert Jenrick urged Boris Johnson to sanction all the remaining Russian banks as well as the executives associated with them.

He said: "The City of London is a global asset whose enduring success doesn't rest on dirty money, it rests on a commitment to excellence and in the adherence with the rule of law. So it's right that we now use that as way to show global leadership

"Can I encourage my right honourable friend to sanction all the remaining Russian banks, to sanction the executives associated with them? I noticed that many are resigning today. To publish a further list of individuals resident in this country or otherwise to be sanctioned.

"And to redouble his excellent efforts to suspend Russia from Swift as the single most effective immediate step that the West could do to put pressure on Vladimir Putin."

The Prime Minister said "the programme he set out, the sanctions, is exactly the right one and the one the Government is following".

The Russian people "don't deserve" President Vladimir Putin as their leader, peers have heard.

As the Lords were updated on Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Labour's Lord Robertson of Port Ellen said: "I am sure I wasn't the only one who woke up this morning to listen to the news who wasn't reminded of that day, that similar day in 1968, when we woke up to hear the news that Soviet tanks had crushed out the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia.

The former Nato secretary-general added: "In May of 2002 when I chaired the Nato-Russia summit with President Putin as an equal member around that table I thought that finally I had exorcised the ghosts of 1968. I stood only hours later on a platform at the press conference standing beside President Putin when he said these words - 'Ukraine is an independent sovereign nation state and it will choose its own path to peace and security'.

"Now remarkably the same man says that Ukraine does not exist, it is a state that does not deserve to be a state, that it's democracy will be crushed again.

"The leader of the Russian people - to whom we owe so much for our own liberty today - has been led by somebody who is taking his country down the road to pariah status. The Russian people don't deserve that."

Government minister Baroness Evans of Bowes Park agreed with Lord Roberston, and said President Putin was "never serious" about diplomacy.

The head of MI6 has said Russia's attack on Ukraine was a "long planned, unprovoked, cruel aggression".

Richard Moore, known in Whitehall as C, tweeted that "US and UK intelligence communities uncovered Putin's plans for Ukraine".

He said: "We exposed his attempts to engineer 'false flag', fake attacks to justify his invasion. We revealed his plans to assassinate Ukrainian leaders and senior officials.

"This attack was long planned, unprovoked, cruel aggression.

"No amount of Russian disinformation will now disguise that fact from the international community."

Boris Johnson told ministers it is "a dark day in the history of our continent" following the invasion of Ukraine.

The Prime Minister held a Cabinet meeting on Thursday evening, which followed a Cobra meeting.

Mr Johnson said Russia's President Vladimir Putin has launched "a cynical and brutal invasion for his own vainglorious ends", a No 10 spokesman said.

"He said the UK could be proud of the actions it has taken so far, playing a leading role in Nato, developing a tough economic sanctions package together with our allies, and providing lethal defensive weaponry to the Ukrainian government," he said.

"He told Cabinet that the Ukrainian military was fighting back in defiance of Putin's attempts to subjugate Ukraine. And he pointed to protests within Russia which demonstrated that Putin's actions would also face resistance from within his own country."

The Cabinet was also briefed by the chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee Sir Simon Gass and the Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Sir Tony Radakin.

The spokesman added: "The Prime Minister concluded by saying Putin must fail, and that the UK would work with its allies to achieve the restitution of the sovereignty of Ukraine."

In a statement published on their Archewell website, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex said they "stand with the people of Ukraine".

The couple said: "Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex and all of us at Archewell stand with the people of Ukraine against this breach of international and humanitarian law and encourage the global community and its leaders to do the same."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220224ei2o000b5


ForMin Aurescu, Dutch counterpart Hoekstra on phone over latest security developments in the region
421 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 17:58 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Feb 24 /Agerpres/ - Minister of Foreign Affairs Bogdan Aurescu had a phone call on Thursday with his Dutch counterpart, Wopke Hoekstra , in the context of the latest security developments in the region and the 'unjustified' armed military aggression of the Russian Federation on Ukraine, a press release by the relevant ministry sent to AGERPRES reads.

The two chief diplomats have had a broad exchange of opinions on the impact of the military aggression over the region's security situation, condemning in the 'strongest' terms the recent actions of Russia, as a new flagrant violation of the principles of international law, in particular the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, in continuation of the reprehensible action of illegal recognition by the Russian Federation of the 'independence' of the self-proclaimed separatist republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, parts of Ukraine.

'During the dialogue, the two ministers reiterated their support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders, stressing the need to continue the efforts of assistance for Ukraine, as well as of providing support for increasing the resilience of partners in the region, including the Republic of Moldova. At the same time, Minister Bogdan Aurescu reiterated the need for the entire international community to sanction firmly, immediately and in a coordinated manner, Russia's actions, in response to the flagrant violation of the international law and to the unprecedented escalation of tensions in the region,' the release reads.

Regarding the security situation in the Black Sea region, the two ministers reiterated the importance of further strengthening NATO 's defense and deterrence posture, minister Aurescu stressing the need to strengthen, of a coherent and unitary manner, the Allied posture of deterrence and defense on the Eastern Flank, including in its south, at the Black Sea, through concrete actions at the level of the alliance, especially by accelerating the process of creating the NATO Battle Group in Romania.

Minister Wopke Hoekstra appreciated Romania's 'firm' responses to the current developments in Ukraine and the importance Romania has in this context and attaches to the security in the entire Black Sea region and in the Euro-Atlantic area, reaffirming the strong support for the principle of collective defense within NATO . He also agreed with the need for the EU to provide humanitarian support to partner states in the region affected by the current security crisis.AGERPRES(RO - author: Dana Piciu, editor: Claudia Stanescu; EN - editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220224ei2o005xx


Aurescu discussed with Indian counterpart about the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine
353 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 19:08 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Feb 24 /Agerpres/ - Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu had a telephone conversation on Thursday with the head of diplomacy of the Republic of India, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar , the two discussing 'the latest security developments in the region and unjustified military aggression of the Russian Federation on Ukraine'.

According to a press release sent by the Romanian Foreign Ministry (MAE), the conversation of the two officials took place in continuation of the meeting they had on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference, on February 19.

'In this context, Minister Bogdan Aurescu condemned in the strongest terms the recent actions of Russia, as a flagrant, repeated violation of the principles of international law, especially of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, following the reprehensible action of illegal recognition to the Russian Federation for the 'independence' of the self-proclaimed separatist republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, part of Ukraine. The head of Romanian diplomacy underscored the need for the international community to firmly sanction Russia in response to the flagrant violation of international law and as a way to discourage future aggressive actions', the MAE release reads.

Indian Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar praised Romania's involvement in supporting security in the entire Black Sea region and in the Euro-Atlantic area, but also in supporting the citizens affected by the current situation. In this context, Minister Bogdan Aurescu expressed, at the request of his counterpart, Romania's readiness to support the evacuation of Indian citizens from Ukraine, the release states.

At the same time, the two heads of Romanian and Indian diplomacy addressed issues of common interest for advancing the bilateral agenda, in the framework offered by the Extended Partnership between Romania and India, with Minister Bogdan Aurescu once again thanking his Indian counterpart for accepting paying in the next period an official visit to Romania, an opportunity that will allow a concrete approach to the joint effort to develop and deepen bilateral relations, including sectoral ones, the MAE reads. AGERPRES (RO - author: Marius Fratila, editor: George Onea; EN - author: Bogdan Gabaroi)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220224ei2o006bt


ForMin Aurescu, French counterpart discuss over the phone about worsened regional security situation
424 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 17:09 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Feb 24 /Agerpres/ - Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu had a telephone conversation with French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian on Thursday about the worsened regional security situation in the context of 'illegal' and 'unjustified' military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MAE), through a press release sent to AGERPRES.

According to the MAE, the Romanian and French diplomats 'condemned Russia's actions in the strongest terms, as they represent a flagrant violation of the principles of international law, especially of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, in the continuation of the reprehensible recognition by the Russian Federation of the 'independence' of the self-proclaimed separatist republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, parts of Ukraine.'

On the same occasion, Minister Aurescu reiterated his strong support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders, while underscoring the need to continue efforts to support Kiev and the other partners in the region, especially the Republic of Moldova, which are states whose resilience needs to be further strengthened, including in the context of the negative effects of the current crisis.

At the same time, Bogdan Aurescu reiterated to the French counterpart the need for the entire international community to sanction Russia 'firmly,' 'immediately' and of a 'coordinated' manner, in response to the 'flagrant' violation of the international law and unprecedented escalation of tensions.

With regard to the security situation in the Black Sea region, the two ministers reiterated the importance of further strengthening NATO 's defence and deterrence stance in the region. They discussed the need to strengthen, in a coherent and united manner, the allied position of deterrence and defence on the Eastern Flank, including on its southern part, at the Black Sea.

Jean-Yves Le Drian reiterated Paris' strong support for the creation of the NATO Combat Group in Romania, in which France will play the role of host nation.

Romanian and French officials underscored the need to speed up the process of setting up this fighting group, as a measure to further strengthen NATO 's deterrent and defence stance in the region.

Minister Le Drian appreciated Romania's firm position on the current developments in its neighbourhood, the importance that Romania has for security in the Black Sea region and throughout the Euro-Atlantic area, and reaffirmed its strong support for the principle of collective defence. AGERPRES (RO - author: Oana Ghita, editor: Claudia Stanescu, EN - author: Cristina Zaharia, editor: Adina Panaitescu)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220224ei2o005pl


*EU von der Leyen: New EU Sanctions Target 70% of the Russian Banking Market -- WSJ
249 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 01:37 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
24 Feb 2022 20:37 ET *EU von der Leyen: New EU Sanctions Target Key State-Owned Companies, Including in Defense -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 20:48 ET *EU von der Leyen: Putin Trying to Redraw the Maps of Europe; He Must Be Stopped -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 20:48 ET *EU von der Leyen: EU Sanctions Will Hit Russian Elites by Curbing Their Deposits in EU -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 20:49 ET *EU von der Leyen: EU Sanctions Will Make it Impossible for Russia to Upgrade Its Oil Refineries -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 20:49 ET *EU von der Leyen: EU Will Ban Sale of Aircraft, Spare Parts to Russia -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 20:50 ET *EU von der Leyen: EU Will Limit Russia's Access to Crucial Technologies Including Semiconductors -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 20:50 ET *EU von der Leyen: Russian Diplomats, Business People Will No Longer Have Privileged Visa Access to EU -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 21:10 ET *Dutch PM: EU Leaders Didn't Sanction Russia's Putin, Lavrov -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 21:11 ET *Dutch PM: EU Needs to Assess Whether Sanctioning Putin, Lavrov Would Prevent Diplomacy to End Ukraine Crisis -- WSJ

24 Feb 2022 21:17 ET *France's Macron: France Will Accelerate Deployment of Troops to Romania -- WSJ

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires

February 24, 2022 21:17 ET (02:17 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220225ei2p0006u


Romania This Week - February 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 2 月 25 日, 6904 字, (英文)
Romania maintains energy price caps for another yearThe Romanian government decided on February 24 to cap the electricity and natural gas prices for households and small enterprises for another year, after the current support scheme expires...

The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have...
7945 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 21:33 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.

A statement from the MoD said: "Russian forces have highly likely captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Workers have reportedly been detained by Russian troops."

In an intelligence update just after 1am, the MoD also said it is "unlikely" Russia achieved its planned objectives for the first day of its military action in Ukraine.

"The Ukrainian Armed Forces have reportedly halted Russia's advance towards Chernihiv," the MoD statement said.

"Fighting probably continues on the outskirts of the city.

"It is unlikely that Russia has achieved its planned Day 1 military objectives. Ukrainian forces have presented fierce resistance across all axes of Russia's advance."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine marks the "beginning of a new era" as she outlined a package of further sanctions on Russia.

Ms von der Leyen said on Twitter: "First, this package includes financial sanctions, targeting 70% of the Russian banking market and key state owned companies, including in defence.

"Second, we target the energy sector, a key economic area which especially benefits the Russian state. Our export ban will hit the oil sector by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.

"Third: we ban the sale of aircrafts and equipment to Russian airlines.

"Fourth, we are limiting Russia's access to crucial technology, such as semiconductors or cutting-edge software.

"Finally: visas. Diplomats and related groups and business people will no longer have privileged access to the European Union.

"These events mark the beginning of a new era. Putin is trying to subjugate a friendly European country. He is trying to redraw the map of Europe by force. He must and he will fail."

The Ukrainian foreign minister has said "horrific rocket strikes" have hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

"Last time our capital experienced anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany," he tweeted.

"Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Severe all ties. Kick Russia out of (everywhere)."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Twitter the UK has been "true to our word" that Russia's invasion would result in the "toughest sanctions we have ever imposed".

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russia's assault on Ukraine is "barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life".

She tweeted: "Solidarity with (Ukrainian foreign minister) @DmytroKuleba and the Ukrainian people.

"Putin's assault on Ukraine is barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life. We will continue to hold Putin to account and remain steadfast in our support. £StandwithUkraine".

Mr Kuleba said in a tweet just before 4am on Friday that "horrific rocket strikes" hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions imposed on Russia "is a show of strength" from other nations.

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme the package of sanctions are "robust, massive and unprecedented".

He said: "I think equally important is the message that we are sending out. The first one is solidarity with Ukrainian people and Ukrainian leaders, who are suffering right now.

"The second one is condemnation, clear condemnation of the action of Russia and its leader.

"Thirdly, that unity of the West, unity of those that share the same values, not only inside the European Union, but with the United Kingdom, with the US, with Canada, with Japan, Australia and beyond.

"This is a show of strength on our side."

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions on Russia will have a "huge impact".

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme they will "touch the heart" of the country's economy.

He added: "The measures we are taking today will have a huge impact on Russia, it impacts 70% of the banking system.

"It touched the heart of the state-owned companies that financed the war effort."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said it is believed Russia intends to invade the whole of Ukraine.

Asked if it is his view the Russians are intent on taking Kyiv and removing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky from power, he told Sky News: "It's definitely our view that the Russians intend to invade the whole of Ukraine."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would expect Russian President Vladimir Putin to be "held to account" if he committed a war crime.

He told Sky News: "If President Putin commits a war crime, then, just as I do if I were to commit a war crime, I should expect to be held to account."

Asked if Mr Putin's actions already constituted a war crime, he said: "I'm not, I'm afraid, an international lawyer.

"I couldn't tell you the difference between breaking international law insofar as directing your forces to invade another country, versus a war crime - eg. things like genocide, and indeed, you know, torture, etc.

"I wouldn't want to speculate the differences. What I would say is he's clearly broken international law, he's occupying or trying to occupy a sovereign country who made one mistake in his eyes. Their mistake in his eyes was not to choose the Kremlin as a way for their future. And that's all they have done."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said "it doesn't matter how much effort we made" to prevent an invasion of Ukraine because Vladimir Putin "has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year".

He told Sky News: "I wrote an article in January that President Putin was beyond this type of persuasion. President Putin, I said and got criticised at the time, there was a whiff of Munich about President Putin.

"It wasn't the bit about appeasement I was referring to, I was referring that in ... Munich in 1938 Adolf Hitler all along had a plan to invade parts of Europe and all the diplomacy was about a straw man sort of attempt by him to buy time.

"Putin has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year, and I think that's why, you know, it doesn't matter how much effort we made - and we all made unbelievable amounts of effort, we saw President Macron go, my Prime Minister regularly spoke to Putin - didn't matter.

"As we're seeing today, it's not about the Donbas, it's not about a minority, it is about a greed to subsume Ukraine into the Russian Federation, or indeed for President Putin to land-grab."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia had "failed to deliver" on its "day one" objectives.

He told Sky News: "Our assessment as of this morning is that Russia has not taken any of its major objectives, in fact it is behind its hoped-for timetable.

"They've lost over 450 personnel. One of the significant airports they were trying to capture with their elite Spetsnaz has failed to be taken. In fact, the Ukrainians have taken it back.

"So, I think contrary to great Russian claims and indeed President Putin's sort of vision that somehow the Ukrainians would be liberated and would be flocking to his cause - he's got that completely wrong. The Russian army has failed to deliver on day one its main objective."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin's legacy will be "isolation", adding that "diplomacy is absolutely off the table" at this stage.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I think President Putin is slowly but surely building a wall around himself. He will be isolated.

"I think, you know, his legacy is not what he hopes it will be. I think his legacy will be isolation."

He added: "I think at the moment diplomacy is absolutely off the table. We tried. I went to Moscow, Liz Truss went to Moscow, (the) Prime Minister spoke regularly to President Putin and met him on a number of occasions, as did practically every president of, or prime minister of, senior countries in the West.

"So, you know, I'm not sure what more diplomacy would achieve at this very moment in time."

He added: "I think it's important to have a diplomatic link, it's important for us to give messages to the Kremlin direct."

Boris Johnson committed to providing further support to Ukraine after receiving an update from president Volodymyr Zelensky on the "terrible developments" in Kyiv.

A Downing Street statement said: "The Prime Minister spoke to President Zelensky this morning to express his solidarity with Ukraine.

"President Zelensky updated the Prime Minister on the most recent Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes on Ukrainian cities and the terrible developments in Kyiv in the early hours of this morning.

"The Prime Minister assured President Zelensky that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing. He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia's campaign of violence, and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.

"The Prime Minister committed to provide further UK support to Ukraine in the coming days as the people of Ukraine and the world continue to demonstrate that Putin cannot act with impunity."

President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukraine demands "effective counteraction" from allies against Russia including further sanctions after talking with Boris Johnson.

The Ukrainian leader tweeted: "Held talks with PM @BorisJohnson. Reported on the course of (Ukraine's) defence and insidious attacks on Kyiv by the aggressor. Today (Ukraine) needs the support of partners more than ever.

"We demand effective counteraction to the Russian Federation. Sanctions must be further strengthened."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said British troops will not be sent to fight "directly" with the Russians.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I said very clearly about a month ago that we are not going to be sending British troops to fight directly with Russian troops.

"We are going to hold the line in Nato. We've always supported Ukraine's application to Nato over the last 15 years, not every country has wanted them to join.

"We've done the next best thing, which is train over 20,000 Ukrainians, provided them with lethal capabilities, which they are using right now.

"But I'm not putting British troops directly to fight Russian troops. That would trigger a European war, because we are a Nato country, and Russia would therefore be attacking Nato."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said he believes "further financial restrictions" against Russia are needed.

Speaking on Good Morning Britain, Sir Keir said he supported the Government's package of sanctions announced on Thursday but called for extra measures.

He said the UK should "break open" shell companies in Britain providing support to Vladimir Putin and target Russia via Swift, an international financial system.

Reacting to news that Russian troops were nearing Kyiv, Sir Keir said the situation was "extremely serious" and Britain should be "absolutely clear" in its stance.

"We have to stand together with our allies, particularly Nato, and it's very important we must stand together as one United Kingdom, and therefore yesterday was significant in Parliament because all political parties spoke with one voice in our support for Ukraine and our support for Nato.

"In relation to the sanctions, I thought what the Government put forward earlier this week was not strong enough. They came forward yesterday with a stronger package and I was able to say that we, the opposition, will support those further sanctions.

"I do want to go further. I think that we do need further financial restrictions, particularly the Swift mechanism. I also think we've got to break open the shell companies we have here in the UK that are providing financial support for Putin."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said political parties across Parliament will "not be divided" in the response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking on ITV's Good Morning Britain, he said Vladimir Putin had "calculated the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs" and said MPs must stand together against him.

"Putin wants to see division among our allies, among our Nato members, and among political parties back here in the United Kingdom, and we are not going to be divided," he said.

But he added that there needs to be a "change" in the way Mr Putin is handled.

"The combined package in response to this, financial measures, sanctions, etc, must not only isolate Russia but must be capable of crippling its ability to function."

"He added: "We are talking about Russia invading a European country here. It's as serious as it gets. We must have an absolutely full response."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian President Vladimir Putin "won't stop" after invading Ukraine.

He said the decision not to "put British service personnel in direct fighting" was not about "risk", but to avoid triggering a "war across Europe".

"It's not about risk, as much as I care for my personnel. It's not about risk," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"It's about if we were to directly attack Russian aircraft, we would have a war across Europe."

He added: "I have said continually for a long time, as has Britain, and the Prime Minister has supported this position, that Putin is not rational.

"He is trying to invade Ukraine. He won't stop after he's ... with Ukraine. He will use everything in the Baltic states. He doesn't believe the Baltic states are really countries.

"And we will have to stand up to it. Now, I cannot trigger a European war and I won't trigger a European war. But what I will do is help Ukraine fight every street with every piece of equipment we can get to them, and we will support them, and that is the reality."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about Nato and the party itself has "never wavered" in its support for the alliance.

Asked on Sky News about the former Labour leader's stance on stopping the expansion of Nato, Sir Keir said: "Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about that but the Labour Party's policy never shifted under his leadership and I've been very clear."

Sir Keir added that the "collective failure of the West" in the past response to Vladimir Putin may have emboldened the Russian president but described the party's support for Nato as "unshakeable".

He said: "I do think that the failure, the collective failure, of you know, the West... in relation to action he's taken in the past, so many examples - Georgia, Crimea, Donbas - have given him the sense that as I say the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs.

"We have to be clear that that isn't the case here in relation to Ukraine and that that response package from the rest of the world will be so strong that it will not only isolate Russia but also cripple its ability to function."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain has been asked to provide more support to defend Ukrainian airspace.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "So first of all, anti-air is being supplied to the Ukrainians, and has been.

"A number of the Baltic states, the United States provided Stinger missiles, which has brought down clearly a number of Russian aircraft.

"The ability to defend their airspace from (the) ground has been enabled. And (of) course, there is more to do and... we've been asked and a number of other nations for that.

"But... to do a no-fly zone... I would have to put British fighter jets directly against Russian fighter jets. Nato would have to effectively declare war on Russia because that's what you would do."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said if Boris Johnson brought forward tougher sanctions on Russia, they would be voted through Parliament "very, very quickly" with the Labour Party's support.

He also strengthened his appeal for Russia to be banned from international financial system Swift, describing the move as a "now decision" which should be made as soon as possible.

"That is a now decision and the Labour Party would support it in full. We think it should happen now," he told BBC Breakfast.

Sir Keir called for shell companies in the UK supporting Vladimir Putin's regime to be targeted, saying there was "frustration" in Parliament that the Government hasn't "got on with this".

"What I've said to the Prime Minister is whatever criticism I've got for you, not having done it now, do it now. If you bring forward legislation, I said to the Prime Minister on Monday, we the Labour Party will vote for it.

"We could bring this through Parliament very, very quickly because those shell companies are hiding assets that are supporting Putin and we have to get our house in order and there's such a will in Parliament at the moment."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain will "work all day" to try to get the Swift international payment system "turned off for Russia".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Britain wants the Swift system to be turned off for Russia. But unfortunately the Swift system is not in our control - it's not a unilateral decision."

Mr Wallace said the system is used "to move money around", explaining: "When you pay Russia for its gas, it probably goes through the Swift system, for example. It is based in Belgium. It has a number of partners that control it, or nation states."

He added: "We want it switched off. Other countries do not. We only have so many options. We are going to work all day to try and get it (switched off for Russia)."

An urgent question on the military situation in Ukraine will take place in the House of Commons from 11am.

It has been tabled by Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough).

The House of Lords will be debating Ukraine and Russia from 10am.

The Government has been pressed to give an update on China's position on Ukraine and on missiles "arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise" peace in Bosnia.

As the Commons began a Friday sitting, Conservative MP Sir Bernard Jenkin (Harwich and North Essex) said: "I appreciate there is an urgent question on Ukraine later on, but I wonder if the Government has given any indication about whether they are going to make a statement about our relations with China, given that China has done nothing to condemn the Ukrainian incursion, and whether the Government will also make a statement about what is happening in the Balkans where I understand that missiles are arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise the Dayton Agreement and create a new crisis there."

Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle said he was sure the Government would take Sir Bernard's comments "very seriously".

Sir Lindsay said: "I have been given no notification that anything is forthcoming. What I would say is that we do have the urgent question and I am sure that he may be able to press the minister if he were able to catch my eye."

Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough) has tabled an urgent question on the latest information about the invasion of Ukraine, due to be answered at 11am Friday.

Defence minister James Heappey is expected to respond to the urgent question granted in the Commons on Ukraine at 11am.

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries welcomed Uefa's decision to strip St Petersburg of the Champions League final over the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

She said: "I welcome Uefa's decisive action to strip St Petersburg of staging this year's Champions League Final.

"Russia must not be allowed to exploit sporting and cultural events on the world stage to legitimise its unprovoked, premeditated and needless attack against a sovereign democratic state."

Defence minister Baroness Goldie said there is currently no indication Russia intends to "directly target" UK or Nato forces, but they "remain on guard", with cyber attacks expected.

Opening a debate in the House of Lords, Lady Goldie said 1,000 troops are on stand-by to deal with the exodus of people from Ukraine.

She told peers: "It goes without saying that our thoughts and prayers remain with the Ukrainian people, many of whom have family and friends in the UK, and will now find themselves under attack for no reason whatsoever.

"But at the same time we remain on guard. While there is no indication at present that Russia intends to directly target British or Nato forces, we should expect their forces and proxies to launch cyber attacks and misinformation campaigns, seeking opportunities to embarrass the UK or Nato and to undermine our resolve.

"We stand ready to protect our country against any threats, whether conventional or in cyberspace.

"However, I'm afraid there's no disguising the fact that a dark new chapter has opened in our history."

The UK will send further armed forces to Estonia "earlier than planned" to reinforce the Nato ally in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Responding to an Urgent Question, Defence minister James Heappey told the Commons: "In addition to the Royal Tank Regiment battle group that has been in place in Estonia for the last six months, the Royal Welsh battlegroup will be arriving in Estonia earlier than planned to double up our force levels and those doubled-up force levels remain indefinitely.

"They will be augmented by the headquarters of 12 Mechanised Brigade, meaning that the United Kingdom will have an armoured brigade in Estonia reassuring one of our closest Nato allies."

Nato troops must not enter Ukraine because of the "risk of miscalculation" leading to "existential" threat, a minister has said.

Defence minister James Heappey told MPs that the Government would "explore all that we can do to support the Ukrainians themselves over the next few days".

He added: "But we must all in this House be clear that British and Nato troops should not, must not, play an active role in Ukraine.

"We must all be clear what the risk of miscalculation could be and how existential that could very quickly become if people miscalculate and things escalate unnecessarily."

A software engineer and Masters student in Kyiv has said that Ukrainians are "scared, but hopeful and extremely angry" as Russia targets the Ukrainian capital.

Olesia, 22, has been sheltering with friends and family in her home and said she has heard sirens go off four times on February 25.

She told the PA news agency: "We hosted some people, because our house is more reliable, and are hosting family and friends here. We've heard sirens that indicate air alarm, I believe, four times today...

"We have some acquaintances in the part of the city where heavy shelling was coming just now, glad to know they're okay.

"People are scared, but hopeful and extremely angry. We trust our military, we believe we will withstand the attacks, some of my relatives have gone to the territorial defence, I'm considering that too."

She added that she wants the "international public to realise this is a threat to world's safety, not just Ukraine" and for governments across the globe "to ban Russia from Swift and to shelter Ukrainian sky, to provide military and financial help to Ukraine".

Conservative MP Peter Bone asked the minister to update the House on whether the UK and Western allies will institute a no-fly zone on Ukraine.

The MP for Wellingborough said: "We are seeing history repeat itself, as a powerful country, headed by a mad man, is extending its territorial boundaries. First by annexing regions of sovereign countries and then invading those countries. This, of course, is what happened in the 1930s and led to World War."

He added: "The Ukraine ambassador to the United Kingdom has asked for us and our allies to institute a no-fly zone of Ukraine. As the ambassador said, people are dying as we speak.

"This action will be a significant and a real help for the people of Ukraine. Yesterday, when I asked the Prime Minister about this request, he indicated it was not ruled out. Could the minister update the House on this request for help?"

Defence minister James Heappey said a no-fly zone is "somewhat difficult to implement in a hostile airspace against a peer adversary".

He noted eyes must be open to the reality that "in such an event, Nato jets would not possibly, but would most certainly probably, come into a combat situation with Russian jets."

Mr Heappey went on: "The risk of miscalculation and escalation and the triggering of Article 5 could not be understated in those circumstances. In the air domain, the risk of miscalculation is greater because things are happening at Mach 2. And there is no time for political calibration."

Shadow defence secretary John Healey pressed the Government on whether the UK will provide Ukraine with short-range handheld anti-tank missiles.

He said: "On Wednesday, the Prime Minister told the House the UK will be shortly providing a further package of military support to Ukraine. We understand the minister's comments about detail, but has this further military assistance being provided?

"The minister knows he has Labour's full support for this."

Mr Healey said the "UK's short-range handheld anti-tank missiles are working well", adding: "He knows that the Ukrainians need more of these urgently to defend Kiev and their other cities. So, can he confirm that he is willing to go that bit further?"

Mr Healey concluded his remarks by saying: "We've taken peace and security in Europe for granted since the end of the Cold War. We can no longer do that.

"I fear that we will be dealing with the consequences of this Russian invasion now for years to come."

Responding to shadow defence secretary John Healey, Defence minister James Heappey said anti-tank missiles had "already proven to be invaluable" in the conflict in Ukraine.

Mr Heappey said the weapons were "high on our list of things that we are looking to supply", adding: "They are unsubstantiated reports, but nonetheless we are aware of the number of circumstances in which they have been used to defeat Russian armour, and we are therefore very aware of their utility both in open battle during the initial phase of the conflict but also in the urban domain in any resistance or insurgency that might follow."

The Defence minister also shared insight that Russia's invasion had not been as successful as planned.

He said: "Suffice to say, we are pretty certain that in the Kremlin last night there will have been some pretty urgent reflections on the speed of the advance compared to what they anticipated.

"I think that Russian people should be calling President Putin and the kleptocracy that surrounds him out on that, because young Russian men and women are being sacrificed in the name of President Putin's hubris."

A total of 1,000 UK troops are on stand-by to support Ukraine's neighbours with refugee responses, a Defence minister has said.

Labour MP for Pontypridd Alex Davies-Jones asked: "Will the 1,000 UK troops that he has placed on stand-by to help with the humanitarian crisis now be urgently deployed?"

Defence minister James Heappey replied: "Just to be very clear - because I think unless I am almost doing her a dis-service - I might have understood her question to be will the 1,000 troops go into Ukraine as they did into Kabul into the summer to facilitate the egress of Ukrainians.

"I am afraid she will be disappointed. That is just not something that could realistically be done. This is a highly kinetic combat situation and the probability of Nato troops being caught up in combat with Russian armed forces is far too high and would lead to huge escalation.

"The 1,000 troops that are on stand-by are there to support Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Poland with the expected humanitarian challenges that they will face as people make their way out of Ukraine."

Conservative MP Dr Luke Evans (Bosworth) asked: "What sanctions and steps will we take to make sure that Belarus feel the pain for what they are doing?"

Mr Heappey replied: "The Belarusian ambassador has been summoned to the Foreign Office today to have the views of Her Majesty's Government shared with them. Belarus has also been included in the sanctions regime."

Downing Street said "nothing is off the table" in support of Ukraine.

A spokesman for Boris Johnson said: "We remain firmly behind Ukraine and will continue to support them."

The spokesman said he could not go into detail over the support being provided but the UK had "talked about protective equipment, helmets, body armour, as well as some of the defensive lethal aid that we've provided in terms of anti-tank weaponry".

The UK Government is working "incredibly closely" with Ukraine's neighbours to support those fleeing the country, No 10 said.

"You'll be aware that we deployed an extra 350 troops to Poland a fortnight ago to help exactly with that task," a spokesman for Boris Johnson said and he pointed towards the Home Secretary's announcement on visa extensions.

Boris Johnson is expected to raise the prospect of banning Russia from the Swift payment system with allies again on Friday, Downing Street said.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister was asked whether the UK would be pushing for the sanction and he said: "You'll have heard the Prime Minister's comments in the House on this yesterday, we will continue to work with allies to try and cut Russia off from Swift.

"You'll be aware that the PM raised this in his call with G7 leaders yesterday, I expect he will raise it at the Nato leaders meeting again today."

The spokesman would not be drawn on which countries were holding out on the proposal but he said: "We've set out why we want to ensure that we can do this, as the Prime Minister said yesterday to ensure that we send a clear message to Vladimir Putin that his efforts will not succeed and to ensure that we can deal a severe blow to the Russian economy."

"As I say, the Prime Minister will raise it again later today," he added.

Conservative MP Nickie Aiken (Cities of London and Westminster) wondered if President Vladimir Putin may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression.

She said: "As I said goodbye to my own children this morning and wish them a good day in school, my thoughts turned to the mums in Ukraine who now fear for the future of their own children.

"And, as we saw in the newspaper today, and I was taken by the photos in the Daily Mail of children, primary school children taking shelter in in bomb shelters, if President Putin has failed to listen to the major international diplomatic efforts, if he has failed to listen to Nato, to the EU, and the Ukrainian people, does my right honourable friend think he may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression?"

Defence minister James Heappey said: "I hope so, but I fear that he's not the sort of man that does and that's why we need to do everything we can to empower those people with all the information we can get them about the complete disregard that President Putin has for the lives of their boys and girls."

Mr Heappey said he was "struck" by reports of the Russian use of mobile crematorium to follow their front lines as whilst colleagues back from Iraq and Afghanistan were buried in flag-draped coffins, "Putin just sends around a mobile crematorium and burns them".

This is a "social media rage war", defence minister James Heappey has said.

Mr Heappey's comments came as Labour former minister Dame Diana Johnson pressed the minister on whether the Government will be recording the use of sexual violence in warfare.

She said: "I wanted to just press the minister a little bit more on war crimes. I'm very pleased to hear that they are being recorded and monitored.

"I wondered, in particular, if the minister could just say something about the use of sexual violence in warfare, and how his Government will be recording that, and then what exactly will happen next, just so I understand what the process will be?"

Mr Heappey replied: "It's no consolation to the people of Ukraine but within the British armed forces we've given a huge amount of thought to how we must operate in future conflict very mindful of women, peace and security, and the challenges that far too many women and children face in conflict broadly pursued between men.

"I'm not sure, I'm afraid, that there is that much regard for that being given by the Russians. But I would come back to it if I have any information to the contrary."

The minister insisted war crimes will be monitored "as best we can", adding: "As she's seeing from all of the open source intelligence that's available on social media, this is a very different type of war to even Gulf War One and Two. This is a social media rage war. And these outrages are often there."

Boris Johnson will host the leaders of the V4 countries in London next month to discuss the Ukraine crisis.

No 10 said the Prime Minister will hold a meeting with the leaders of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia on March 8 to "discuss the situation in Ukraine and the UK's support for security in the region".

More sanctions are needed to hit Russia, including targeting Vladimir Putin's inner circle, Boris Johnson has agreed with the leaders of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF).

The JEF is a UK-led group comprising Iceland, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Latvia and the UK which works together to deliver forces at high readiness, across a range of roles.

A No 10 spokesman said the Prime Minister spoke to the leaders on Friday.

The spokesman said: "He reiterated that this was a defining moment in European history, with global implications. The Prime Minister said he believed the Ukrainian people would continue to fight and had done so gallantly in the recent hours and days.

"The leaders agreed that more sanctions were needed, including focusing on President Putin's inner circle, building on the measures that had already been agreed."

Mr Johnson said more support must be given to Ukraine "as a matter of the greatest urgency".

Maxim Yermalovich, the ambassador to the UK from Russia-ally Belarus, has arrived at the Foreign Office after being summoned over the Ukrainian invasion.

Russia has said the Defence Secretary could have used "similar adjectives" to describe Boris Johnson when he told troops that Vladimir Putin had gone "full tonto".

Ben Wallace made the unguarded comments while chatting to serving military personnel earlier this week.

Maria Zakharova, Russia's foreign affairs ministry spokesperson, was asked about the comments by Sky News at a press briefing on Friday.

According to the translation on Sky News she said it was "surprising that such evaluations are given by (the) defence minister of the UK regarding authorities of a different state".

She said that "I think he could have thought up of similar adjectives... thinking of (the) British Prime Minister, if we talk about personal judgment."

The bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain "more than 50km from the centre of the city", the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said.

In an intelligence update posted about 3.30pm, the MoD said the Russian armoured forces had "opened a new route of advance towards Kyiv having failed to capture Chernihiv".

The report said there were "reports of sporadic clashes in the northern suburbs of Kyiv, which we continue to monitor" but that "the bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain more than 50km from the centre of the city".

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly urged Belarus to "stop supporting Russia's illegal and unprovoked" offensive in Ukraine after summoning Minsk's ambassador.

A Foreign Office statement added: "Belarus needs to desist from its support to Russia and respect Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty in line with its international obligations."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner said President Putin's actions in attacking Ukraine were "disgraceful".

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "It is absolutely heartbreaking to see the footage out of Ukraine, and the responsibility and the death and the bloodshed lies with Putin.

"He shouldn't have done this. He knows that he's broken international law.

"This is devastating to see what's happened here and the hand of history will not be kind to Putin and his regime for what they've done.

"It is really devastating to see what's happening.

"All of my thoughts are with the people of Ukraine and people who are watching that, and people in Russia who have strong links to family in Ukraine who are seeing this.

"It's disgraceful what Putin has done and he will be judged by his actions by the international community."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner welcomed the Prime Minister's vow to help Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "We should be working with our international allies and partners to support every Ukrainian who needs that support at the moment.

"They are in need, and we should be responding to that need."

She said she was proud to be British and to see the support shown for Ukrainians.

Ms Rayner said: "To see those pictures and to hear that statement for those soldiers that wouldn't give up when they were told to give up, 13 of them, and they all were killed, to see that and to see the defiance against that regime who was trying to use bloodshed to bring people to their knees.

"I'm incredibly proud of the Ukrainians and I'm proud I'm proud of what our country is doing to support their freedom and their right to exist.

Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg has said "the world will hold Russia and Belarus accountable for their actions".

Addressing a press briefing following a virtual meeting of Nato leaders, Mr Stoltenberg said: "We call on Russia to stop this senseless war immediately."

He warned that "the Kremlin's objectives are not limited to Ukraine" and that "we are facing a new normal in European security where Russia openly contests the European security order and uses force to pursue its objectives".

He said: "President Putin's decision to pursue his aggression against Ukraine is a terrible strategic mistake."

Mr Stoltenberg added that although significant sanctions had already been announced "we must stand ready to do more, even if it means we have to pay a price, because we are in this for the long haul".

The secretary-general said Nato had deployed thousands more troops to the eastern part of the alliance, and will "do what it takes to protect and defend every ally and every inch of Nato territory".

Britain's chief of defence intelligence has said that Russian forces are seeking to encircle the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, with a view to imposing a pro-Moscow regime.

Lieutenant General Sir Jim Hockenhull said the Ukrainian military was continuing to offer "strong resistance" in the face of the Russian advance.

"Russian forces continue to advance on two axes towards Kyiv.

"Their objective is to encircle the capital to secure control of the population and change the regime," he told reporters.

"Overnight Russian launched a concerted series of strikes on targets Kyiv. Ukrainian armed forces continue to offer strong resistance focusing on the defence of key cities throughout Ukraine."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng met with BP's chief executive Bernard Looney on Friday to discuss the company's 20% stake in Russia's state-backed oil giant Rosneft.

Mr Looney also sits on the Rosneft board, along with former BP boss Bob Dudley.

Rosneft's chief executive Igor Sechin - a close ally of Vladimir Putin - is on the US sanctions list.

A Whitehall source told the PA news agency: "BP left the meeting with no doubt about the strength of the Business Secretary's concern about their commercial interests in Russia."

Boris Johnson has told Nato leaders that "immediate action" must be taken to ban Russia from the Swift payment platform to "inflict maximum pain" on Vladimir Putin.

The Prime Minister attended a virtual meeting of the leaders on Friday afternoon and warned Nato leaders that Mr Putin was "engaging in a revanchist mission to overturn post-Cold War order", according to a No 10 spokesperson.

The spokesperson said the PM had "urged leaders to take immediate action against Swift to inflict maximum pain on President Putin and his regime"

Mr Johnson told the leaders "the UK would introduce sanctions against President Putin and foreign minister Sergei Lavrov imminently, on top of the sanctions package the UK announced yesterday", bringing the Government in line with measures announced by the EU.

The spokesperson said: "He warned the group that the Russian president's ambitions might not stop there and that this was a Euro-Atlantic crisis with global consequences."

No 10 said Boris Johnson told Nato leaders that the UK armed forces "stood ready for any further request" for further military support.

A Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister told a meeting of Nato leaders on Friday "that the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression".

The spokesperson said the PM told the meeting "Ukraine was showing strong resistance, he added that there could no normalisation of relations with Russia after this act".

"The Prime Minister outlined details of the UK's new offer to Nato across its eastern flank. The UK stood ready for any further request from Nato's Supreme Allied Commander Europe to go further with military support to Nato from UK Armed Forces, he said," according to the spokesperson.

"Nato should have primacy in the future of European security and it was vital that it was strengthened now, the Prime Minister added."

Western allies fear Russia could use thermobaric weapons against Ukrainian forces if they continue to hold up their advance.

Western officials believe Russian forces missed most of their day one objectives of the invasion and could resort to indiscriminate firing to make up ground.

One official said this could include thermobaric weapons which Russia is known to have in its armoury and has used in past conflicts - although they have not been seen so far on the battlefield in Ukraine.

"My fear would be that if they don't meet their timescale and objectives they would be indiscriminate in their use of violence," the official said.

Ireland's deputy premier Leo Varadkar has branded Vladimir Putin the "Hitler of the 21st century".

The Tanaiste acknowledged that sanctions such as the potential banning of Russia from the Swift payment network would have economic implications for Ireland.

But he said those consequences needed to be accepted given the situation in Ukraine.

"I don't think we're in that space where we can be concerned about the economic impact on Ireland when a democratic country in the European Union is being invaded and the attempt is being made to overthrow a democratic government there," he told RTE Radio One.

Mr Varadkar added: "The last time I can think of that happening in Europe is in the 1930s and I think we should see this conflict in that context.

"We knew that Putin was a bad man, we've known that for a long time now, but we didn't think that he would be the Hitler of the 21st century and I think he's putting himself into that space."

Russian ambassador to Ireland Yuri Filatov has claimed his country's invasion of Ukraine is a "humanitarian intervention".

Mr Filatov said there was no proof that Russian forces had targeted civilians in the assault.

He claimed Ukraine had used engagement in diplomacy in recent times as a cover for preparing an offensive on the Donbas region of the country.

"It's not our choice, the military option is not our choice," he told RTE.

He added: "There was no other choice to end the suffering of Donbas through real humanitarian intervention - that's what this special operation is exactly about.

"The only aim of the operation is to neutralise the ability of the Ukrainian military to inflict any more suffering on Donbas. Ukrainians should not be afraid of that."

His comments come amid increasing calls from opposition parties in Ireland to expel Mr Filatov from the country.

Asked why he should be allowed to stay, the ambassador said: "You might ask your Government, it's up to them. I can leave any time."

The Transport Secretary said he has extended a UK flight ban on Russian aircraft to include private jets.

The Government previously announced it was banning Russia's flag carrier Aeroflot from landing in the UK.

Grant Shapps tweeted: "Putin's actions are unlawful and anyone benefitting from Russia's aggression in Ukraine is not welcome here. I've strengthened our ban in the UK so that no Russian private jet can fly in UK airspace, or touchdown - effective immediately."

Boris Johnson has addressed a message directly to the people of Russia, saying in Russian: "I do not believe this war is in your name."

In a video posted on social media, the Prime Minister also spoke Ukrainian after urging an end to the conflict "because the world needs a free and sovereign Ukraine".

He said: "The scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy.

"Brave young soldiers and innocent civilians are being cut down, tanks are rumbling through towns and cities, missiles raining indiscriminately from the skies.

"It's a generation or more since we witnessed such bloodshed in Europe. We hoped we would never have to see such sights again."

Mr Johnson continued: "The people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.

"We salute the fierce bravery and patriotism of your government, your military and your people."

The Prime Minister went on to say: "Like Ukraine, Russia's poets and artists and authors have shaped our culture and Russia's soldiers fought so bravely with us in the struggle against fascism.

"But Putin's actions are leading to complete isolation for Russia, shunned by the rest of the international community, hit by immense economic sanctions and facing a needless and bloody war that is already costing countless lives, from innocent Ukrainians to your Russian soldiers who will never see their families again."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220225ei2p000gp


Inquirer
Putin’s war on the West is a bid to redraw Europe
Cameron Stewart
2693 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 13:00 GMT
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
Vladimir Putin has embarked on his biggest gamble, one that will ­redraw the map of Europe, trigger devastating war and partly restore his beloved Soviet empire.

The Russian President has ­orchestrated an unspeakable ­carnage as innocent Ukrainians cower under a brutal onslaught of bombs and tanks in scenes more reminiscent of Hitler’s invasion of Poland than modern Europe.

The rest of the world, including Australia, is watching in jaw-dropping horror at Russia’s invasion, hurling its collective disgust at Putin and threatening to impose evermore sweeping financial and economic sanctions on Moscow.

And yet the West is all but powerless to stop this war. It can only watch on helplessly as Putin drives a stake through the heart of those who naively believed the fall of the Berlin Wall three decades ago marked the end of Russian despots. An unprovoked attack on a major European power was confined to the history books, or so we thought.

What is remarkable about his attack on Ukraine is how Putin, a lifelong risk-taker, has managed to turn the odds in this crisis so heavily in his favour. At least for now.

The US and NATO will not bend in their refusal to intervene militarily to defend Ukraine, which is not a NATO member. Even if there were a will to try to defend Ukraine militarily, a war fought right on Russia’s border would come at a cost in lives that no Western nation would accept.

From his vantage point in the Kremlin, Putin sees nothing but opportunity. He sees a divided Europe which too often seemed more concerned about losing access to Russian gas supplies than it was about the invasion of a sovereign nation. He sees a polarised America, weary of foreign wars with an ageing President who is still damaged by the chaotic US withdrawal from Afghanistan.

Polls this week show just 26 per cent of Americans think the US should play a major role in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, giving Joe Biden little room to move.

With China, Putin has worked assiduously in recent months to forge closer links with Beijing and neutralise any opposition on Ukraine.

As Michele Flournoy, the top Pentagon policy official in the Obama administration, says; “We’re seeing that while Beijing doesn’t really like Putin’s tactics, they’re willing to band together as authoritarian states against the Western democracies.”

Satellite imagery released on February 24 shows the movement of Russian military vehicles in south western parts of Belarus, near the Polish and Ukrainian borders.

In the meantime, Putin has slowly and methodically ensured that his invasion, which began in earnest on Thursday, is likely to be a military rout given that he had surrounded Ukraine on three sides with more than 170,000 Russian troops backed by tanks, missiles and overwhelming firepower.

This week, Putin put the final touches on his invasion plans by giving a tortured re-imagining of Ukrainian history to try to argue that Kyiv had no rights as a sovereign nation. Putin’s message to Russians is that an invasion of Ukraine is really not an invasion of another country, but a reclaiming of a lost part of Russia, like a spiritual reunion of long lost friends. It is an argument that sinks under scrutiny but which exploits popular nostalgia for the Soviet empire, the loss of which Putin has called “the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century”.

On every level, Putin has confected this Ukraine invasion like a Russian grand master in chess, carefully moving his pieces into place, politically, militarily and psychologically, over many months to prepare for this terrible moment.

As such he is on the cusp of something he has spent decades longing for.

“Putin’s overarching aim is reversing the consequences of the Soviet collapse, splitting the transatlantic alliance and renegotiating the geographic settlement that ended the Cold War,” says former US intelligence officer Angela Stent. “The current crisis between Russia and Ukraine is a reckoning that has been 30 years in the making. It is much more than Ukraine and its possible NATO membership. It is about the future of the European order crafted after the Soviet Union’s collapse.”

Biden was equally blunt about Putin’s ambitions. Putin “has much larger ambitions than Ukraine. He wants to, in fact, re-establish the former Soviet Union. That’s what this is about,” he says.

The question is why now? After all, Putin made similar claims about Ukraine being a natural part of greater Russia when he invaded Ukraine’s Crimea Peninsula in 2014, yet he stopped short of attacking the rest of the country.

At that time, citing Crimea’s long history as part of Russia, Putin said of Crimea: “This strategic territory should be under a strong, sovereign state and that in fact can only be Russia.”

Putin justifies this week’s invasion of Ukraine on the spurious grounds that the country could be a “springboard” for a NATO ­attack against Russia.

NATO has certainly provoked Russia by progressively expanding eastwards since the end of the Cold War. But Ukraine is no closer now to joining NATO than it was in 2014. Putin has made a series of impossible demands on NATO, one of which is to promise that there will be no further expansion of the pact, including Ukraine.

For reasons which only Putin can truly know, this was his ­moment to act.

“The President of the Russian Federation is operating at a higher risk-tolerance level,” says Lieutenant General Ben Hodges who commanded the US Army in ­Europe from 2014 to 2017. “He is confident because we, the West, have not stopped him before or forced him to back down.”

But Putin’s decision to invade still comes with significant risk, even if he knows that Russia cannot be defeated militarily by the far smaller Ukraine army.

The size and scale of the sanctions which the West are now set to impose on Russia will dwarf those previously imposed on ­Moscow for Putin’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 or his invasion of Georgia in 2008.

The US and Europe initially announced relatively modest sanctions this week, reserving the toughest measures for a full scale invasion. Biden claims his planned sanctions will effectively cut Russia off from Western financing and inflict grievous harm on Russia’s economy and its leadership. German chancellor Olaf Scholz, who had previously been noncommittal about tough sanctions, this week agreed to put the $11bn Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline on hold, a move that will deny Moscow increased energy sales to Europe. This is one measure that will directly hurt Russia, but it also hits the EU which receives one third of its energy from Russia.

Russian sanctions will also hurt Europe, the US and the global economy and it will be a test of Western resolve to maintain them and increase them. Putin knows that mega-sanctions will damage Russia’s already stagnant economy, but it is obvious that he has already factored this into his overall plan on Ukraine. Putin has planned for this day and for these sanctions. Ever since the West imposed sanctions on Russia after the 2014 annexation of Crimea, Putin has been working to make Russia’s economy “sanction proof” by boosting foreign reserves, buying gold, and exporting more from neutral countries like China. Russia’s central bank has $US630bn in reserves of foreign exchange and gold, having grown from $US368bn in 2015. It would take a complete collapse of Russia’s economy – an unlikely scenario – for Putin’s leadership to be jeopardised.

The greater risk for Putin in invading Ukraine is not the immediate military outcome, but rather the long-term plan if Russian troops were to become an ­occupying force.

It is expected that Putin’s overwhelmingly superior Russian forces will conquer Ukraine in a relatively short period of time. But then what?

Ukraine is a democratic country of 44 million people, the ­majority of whom like their democracy and their freedoms and who say, according to the polls, that they would like their country to one day become a member of NATO.

In announcing his invasion, Putin claimed that he does not intend to occupy Ukraine, but rather seeks to “demilitarise” the country. But it is unclear how he can exert real control over Ukraine without keeping Russian troops there.

By invading and continuing to occupy Ukraine, Putin risks a military quagmire where Russian troops are drawn into a guerrilla-style war against pro-Ukrainian militia. This is what doomed Russia in Afghanistan in the 1980s.

NED-5569-Key cities in Putin’s sights

And then there is the vast human cost, although Putin gives no sign of caring about this. US intelligence estimates project an all-out invasion of Ukraine would see between 25,000 and 50,000 civilians killed or wounded, and between 5000 and 25,000 Ukrainian troops and 3000 to 10,000 Russian troops killed or wounded. It would be easily the most devastating conflict in ­Europe since World War II.

Putin has been careful to keep his options open and watch how the world reacts. His decision early in the week to formally recognise the independence of the breakaway pro-Russian areas of Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine and then start sending Russian forces only into that ­disputed region initially confounded the US and Europe. Was it a true “invasion” and what level of sanctions should be imposed on Moscow?

It was only on Thursday when Putin launched his bombing campaign in Kyiv and other cities that his true intentions became clear.

Putin’s journey to this point in history has been a deeply personal one. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989 and the Soviet Union disintegrated, he was a KGB officer based in Dresden in Germany. His life’s work to that point became meaningless overnight. Suddenly millions of Russians found themselves living outside Russia, in newly independent countries like Ukraine. A smaller, weaker Russia saw 41 per cent of its GDP vanish overnight. It was no longer a superpower

Putin claimed in a recent speech that he, like millions of Russians, fell on hard times in the 1990s as he tried to remake his life. He even claimed to have been a taxi driver for a while, saying: “Honestly, it’s not very pleasant to speak about.”

After the fall of the Soviet Union, “people found themselves abroad overnight, taken away, this time indeed from their ­historical motherland”, Putin wrote last year in a 5000-word essay which was delivered to Russian troops.

Putin speaks bitterly about what he calls the broken promises from the West at the time that NATO would never extend eastwards beyond Germany.

Observers say a turning point for the Russian President was the decision by NATO to turn eastwards in 2004 and grant membership to Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.

In 2007, Putin angrily accused the US of going too far and of having “overstepped its borders in every way”. NATO’s expansion, he said, was also “a serious provocation that reduces everybody’s trust”.

Then in 2008, NATO prematurely declared that Georgia and Ukraine “will become members of NATO”. It was one provocation too far for Putin who invaded Georgia later that year.

Putin has also detested what he sees as the belittling of Russia by the West in the post Cold War years. The late US senator John McCain famously disparaged Russia as a “gas station masquerading as a country”, while Barack Obama would refer to Moscow as merely a “regional power”.

Rodric Braithwaite, the British ambassador to Moscow when the Soviet Union collapsed, believes Putin’s wounded pride about the collapse of the Soviet Union is shared by many ordinary Russians.

“What Putin says about the humiliation of the Soviet collapse, the enlargement of NATO, and the intimate historical link between Russian and Ukrainian history is not his own idea,” Braithwaite says.

“Millions of Russians think and feel just like he does.”

But the scale of the attack on Ukraine has also shocked many Russians, with thousands taking to the streets to protest before being subdued by police.

Putin’s speech this week days before the invasion saw him reach new levels of sentimental extremes about Ukraine to publicly justify what was about to ­unfold.

“Ukraine is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space,” Putin said.

“These are our comrades, those dearest to us – not only colleagues, friends and people who once served together, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties.”

He portrayed Russia as the victim. “Ukraine will serve as the springboard for the strike (against Russia),” Putin claimed without evidence. “If our ancestors had heard about it, they probably would simply not have believed it. And today, they don’t want to believe it but it’s true.”

Putin continued on this theme when he announced the Russian offensive on Thursday, saying Russia couldn’t “tolerate the threat that emanates from modern” Ukraine. He asserted that the attack was needed to protect pro-Russian civilians in Donbas – even though his forces also ­attacked infrastructure in Kyiv and across the country.

“We were simply left with no chance to act otherwise,” Putin told a meeting of Russian business leaders this week.

Putin has ordered this military offensive knowing that it will come at great cost to US and ­European prestige. He knows that Biden is ultimately impotent to control what now happens in Ukraine.

The US President has sent more American troops to Europe and will reposition them around the Baltic States. Biden has said he will not send in troops to fight Russia in Ukraine but has vowed to defend any attack on a NATO member should Putin seek to ­expand his strikes beyond Ukraine’s borders. Sanctions and angry rhetoric are all that Washington, Europe and Australia can throw at Moscow for now.

America’s inability to persuade Putin to back down is a historic diplomatic failure and the gut-wrenching images this week bombs exploding across Ukraine will only heighten the sense of helplessness that many in the West feel. It has the potential to gravely hurt Biden’s presidency. A new Gallup poll shows just 36 per cent of Americans approve of how Biden has handled the situation with Russia, while 55 per cent disapprove. Worst of all, especially for Australia, is the fear that Western impotence over Ukraine could embolden China over Indo-Pacific flashpoints like Taiwan and the South China Sea.

But this is all a part of Putin’s plan. By invading Ukraine he has forced Washington to look to ­Europe at a time when it wants to concentrate on the challenge of a rising China in the Indo-Pacific.

As The Wall Street Journal puts it: “Russia’s audacious military assault on Ukraine is the first major clash marking a new order in international politics. This emerging order leaves the US contending with two adversaries at once in geographically disparate parts of the world.”

Ever since he came to power in 1999, Putin has been a risk-taker. He has subjugated democracy in Russia to effectively anoint himself as a dictator and has surprised the West with his boldness in sending Russian troops into Syria, annexing Crimea and invading Georgia.

But Putin’s invasion of Ukraine dwarfs his previous excesses. In the eyes of the West, he will now sit in the pantheon of Russian tyrants alongside Stalin and Lenin.

As Biden put it: “Who in the Lord’s name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belonged to his neighbours?”

Biden is right when he says Putin has created this “premeditated war” in Ukraine and that “Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this ­attack will bring”.

But in the same breath Biden also claims that “the world will hold Russia accountable”. The burning question is how?

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 AUSTOL0020220225ei2p0056c


Live updates: Zelenskyy declines US offer to evacuate Kyiv
By The Associated Press
9102 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 04:04 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] :

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was asked to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the U.S. government but turned down the offer.

Zelenskyy said in response: “The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride,” according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation, who described Zelenskyy as upbeat.

Invading Russian forces closed in on Ukraine’s capital on Saturday, in an apparent encircling movement after a barrage of airstrikes on cities and military bases around the country.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — A second Russian Ilyushin Il-76 military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles (85 kilometers) south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.

On Friday, Ukraine’s military said it had shot down a Russian military transport plane with paratroopers on board.

According to a statement from the military’s General Staff, the first Il-76 heavy transport plane was shot down near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv. The Russian military has not commented on either incident so far, and the reports could not be immediately verified.

___

TOKYO — Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi says he spoke with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, on the phone Saturday and they agreed they must respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine properly to prevent it from becoming “a wrong lesson” because of its potential influence in Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.

Hayashi declined to comment if Japan plans to join the United States, Britain and the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Hayashi said Japan will stay in close touch with other Group of Seven members and other international leaders while watching the developments.

Hayashi told reporters that he and Blinken reaffirmed their commitment to work closely with the rest of international society and they agreed it is necessary to reject Russia's unilateral act to change the status quo.

___

UNITED NATIONS—Russia has vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution demanding that Moscow stop its attack on Ukraine and withdraw all troops.

Friday’s vote was 11-1, with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining. It showed significant but not total opposition to Russia’s invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbor.

The United States and other supporters knew the resolution wouldn’t pass but argued it would highlight Russia’s international isolation. The resolution’s failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the U.N. General Assembly. There are no vetoes in the 193-member assembly. There’s no timetable as yet for a potential Assembly vote.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria on Friday introduced a ban on the entry of Russian aircraft into the country’s airspace.

All aircraft licensed by the Russian Federation may not enter the sovereign airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the airspace over its territorial waters, the government announced. The ban is effective starting Saturday.

The government said it took the action in connection with the escalation of the military conflict and in solidarity with Ukraine.

___

SYDNEY—Australia is imposing sanctions against all 339 members of the Russian parliament and is considering sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne also announced on Saturday sanctions against eight Russian oligarchs close to Putin. Australia was also taking steps to imposed sanctions on key figures in the Belarusian government who had aided the Ukraine invasion.

Payne said she was seeking advice from her department on following western allies’ example in sanctioning Putin.

“It is an exceptional step to sanction leaders, but this is an exceptional situation,” Payne said.

___

WASHINGTON—Ukraine’s top diplomatic envoy in the U.S. is urging countries to sever diplomatic relations with Russia over its invasion of their country.

Ambassador Oksana Markarova’s request came in an emergency meeting Friday at the Washington-based Organization of American States, whose members were debating a resolution condemning the military attack ordered by President Vladimir Putin.

“It’s hard to imagine that something like this happens in the center of Europe in the 21st Century,” an emotional Markarova said during the meeting. She urged delegates to supply Ukraine with defensive weapons and follow the lead of the Federated States of Micronesia, a Pacific island nation that earlier Friday broke all ties with Russia.

Alexander Kim, a senior diplomat at Russia’s embassy in Washington, towed closely to the Kremlin’s unsubstantiated claim that the military incursion was an attempt to “de-Nazify” a government that had committed scores of atrocities against civilians.

“We are open to diplomacy,” Kim told representatives of more than 30 Latin American governments, many of whom have pursued closer relations with Moscow in recent years. “However, diplomacy presumes an ability to negotiate. It is not a tool for blackmailing and imposing the decision of Washington and its satellite states.”

___

LONDON—British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he is in “close contact” with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as he hailed “the fierce bravery and patriotism” of Ukraine’s government and people.

In a recorded message, Johnson said “the scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy,” calling it bloodshed Europe has not seen in a generation or more.

He said “the people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.”

Johnson also urged Russians to oppose the invasion, which he called “a tragedy for Russia” as well as for Ukraine.

Speaking in Russian, he said: “I do not believe this war is in your name.”

Britain has imposed asset freezes and other sanctions on scores of Russian companies and several oligarchs, and has joined the U.S., Canada and the European Union in slapping sanctions on President Vladimir Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary—Hungary’s foreign minister has offered Budapest as a possible location for negotiations between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine as Russia’s invasion intensifies.

“Budapest can serve as a safe venue for both the Russian and Ukrainian negotiation delegations,” Peter Szijjarto said in a video on Facebook late Friday, adding that he had made the proposal to both Russia’s and Ukraine’s governments, neither of which dismissed it.

“I sincerely hope that an agreement can be reached within a few hours or days to start discussions; the sooner the talks begin, the sooner there will be peace and the fewer people will have to die in the war,” Szijjarto said.

___

BRUSSELS—With a military intervention in Ukraine off the table, countries around the world are looking to heap more financial punishment on Moscow.

The United States, Britain and European Union said Friday they will move to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

The EU’s unanimous decision, part of a broader sanctions package, indicated that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban.

___

TORONTO—Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is announcing sanctions on Russian Vladimir Putin, his chief of staff and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.

Trudeau also says Canada supports the removal of Russia from the SWIFT banking system.

The prime minister is also announcing sanctions against Belarus.

Meanwhile, Canada’s largest province is pulling Russian products from shelves from government owned liquor stores.

Ontario Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy says the province joins Canada’s allies in condemning the Russian government’s act of aggression against the Ukrainian people, and will direct the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to withdraw all products produced in Russia from store shelves.

The French-speaking province of Quebec is also considering banning Russian liquor.

___

UNITED NATIONS—The U.N. plans to seek over $1 billion in donations for humanitarian relief in Ukraine over the next three months, the world body’s humanitarian chief said Friday.

Martin Griffiths said at a news briefing that the exact amount of the appeal is still being decided but will be “well north of $1 billion.”

The U.N. announced Thursday that it was immediately allocating $20 million to expand its humanitarian operations in Ukraine. Even before Russia’s attack this week, the world body estimated about 3 million people were in need of aid after years of fighting between Russian-backed separatists and the Ukrainian government in the country’s east.

Now, “the scale of need in these very, very extraordinary circumstances is going to be of the highest,” Griffiths said.

The U.N. issues multiple appeals each year for international donors, mainly governments, to finance humanitarian efforts in trouble spots around the world. Last month, it requested more than $5 billion for Afghanistan, the largest-ever appeal tied to a single country.

___

RICHMOND, Va.—Criminal ransomware operators are posting messages on the dark web pledging to launch retaliatory cyberattacks if Russia is attacked.

The ransomware group Conti, which experts say has ties to Russia, said in a note on its dark web site Friday that it would “use all our possible resources to strike back at the critical infrastructures of an enemy.”

Ransomware gangs are mostly Russian-speaking and operate with near impunity out of Russia and allied countries.

In a follow up note, the Conti group stressed it was not an ally of any government and said: “we condemn the ongoing war.”

Major ransomware attacks in the last year, including against the biggest U.S. fuel pipeline, have underscored how gangs of extortionist hackers can disrupt the economy and put lives and livelihoods at risk. The U.S. government has been warning critical infrastructure entities to prepare for possible attacks and to make sure their defenses are up to date.

Non-state hackers have promised to be active in both sides of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The online collective Anonymous recently pledged to conduct cyberattacks to support Ukraine.

___

BERLIN—The German government says it plans to deploy troops and the Patriot anti-missile system to Slovakia as part of NATO plans to strengthen the alliance’s eastern flank.

The Defense Ministry said Friday that it plans to send an infantry company as part of a combat troop battalion. And it said that Germany also will contribute the Patriot system.

The ministry stressed that the so-called “enhanced vigilance activity battlegroup” has a purely defensive function.

Slovakia is a NATO and European Union member that borders Ukraine. Germany already is beefing up its troop contingent in Lithuania, another nation on NATO’s eastern flank.

___

KYIV, Ukraine--Russian troops are bearing down on Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv.

Mayor Vitaly Klitschko says five explosions hit an area near a major power plant on the city’s eastern outskirts. There was no information on the cause of the blasts, which Klitschko said occurred at intervals of several minutes. No electricity outages were immediately reported.

The invasion of a democratic country has fueled fears of wider war in Europe and triggered worldwide efforts to make Russia stop.

___

BELGRADE, Serbia—Serbia defied calls from the European Union and the U.S. to join sanctions against Russia, although its autocratic president said that Moscow’s assault against Ukraine is against the international law.

With the move, Serbia remains a rare European state together with Belarus not to join Western sanctions introduced against Moscow for its invasion of a sovereign European state.

“Serbia respects the norms of the international law,” President Aleksandar Vucic said. “But Serbia also understands its own interests.”

Vucic said that Serbia regards the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity as “very wrong,” but added it won’t join international sanctions against Russia.

Despite formally seeking EU membership, Serbia has been strengthening ties with its traditional Slavic ally Russia. Moscow has been supplying Serbia’s armed forces with weapons, leading to more tensions in the Balkans which went through a bloody civil war in the 1990s.

___

ROME—Thousands of Romans and Ukrainians who live in the Italian capital marched side-by-side to the Colosseum to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

They took up the call by Rome’s mayor to clutch lit candles on Friday evening and walk from the square atop the Capitoline Hill to the ancient arena, a few minutes’ stroll away.

Several of the Ukrainians among the marchers wept. They put a hand over their heart while singing the Ukrainian anthem. Others held Ukrainian flags or protest signs or shouted, “hands off our country” or voiced other denunciations of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Among the marchers was Ruslan Yakubovskyy, a Ukrainian.

“I live here, I bought a home here, my family is here, but I am thinking about going back to Ukraine to fight and lend a helping hand,″ he said. “The situation is so difficult that either it’s that the rest of the world is pretending not to see or it doesn’t want to see it at all."

City Hall and the Colosseum were illuminated in the colors of the Ukrainian flag, yellow and blue.

___

WARSAW, Poland - Presidents of NATO’s eastern flank member states gathered Friday in Warsaw voiced their support for tough sanctions on Russia and its leaders for the invasion of Ukraine.

Nine presidents of the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine held a security summit with the participation of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. They also remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

“There cannot be any ‘business as usual’ in this situation in relations with Russia because that would have been a betrayal of the principles of the honest, open world,” Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, said after the talks that he had hosted.

___

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain would introduce sanctions against Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to inflict maximum punishment for invading Ukraine, his Downing Street office said Friday.

Johnson’s pledge comes as the European Union approved an asset freeze on Putin and Lavrov. The comments from Johnson suggest that Western powers are acting in concert on unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor.

In comments to NATO leaders, the UK leader pressed again for immediate action to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions. European nations have faced criticism for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network in offering sanctions on Thursday.

Johnson said “the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression.”

___

TIRANA, Albania—Albania's prime minister on Friday said the tiny Western Balkan country would welcome Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking after a NATO summit Prime Minister Edi Rama said that like all the other NATO member countries, Albania would be ready to welcome a few thousand Ukrainians leaving their country due to the Russian invasion.

Rama did not give any concrete number.

Albania, a NATO member since 2009, has followed the United States and European Union on its stand denouncing Russian invasion.

Albania was the first to offer shelter and then house some 2,400 Afghan evacuees after the Taliban came to power in August last year. Some 300 have already left, mainly for the United States.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday that U.S. President Joe Biden and his counterparts have agreed to send parts of the organization’s response force to help protect allies in the east over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking after chairing a NATO meeting, Stoltenberg said the leaders decided to send parts of the NATO Response Force and elements of a quickly deployed spearhead unit. He did not say how many troops would be deployed, but confirmed that the move would involve land, sea and air power.

The NRF can number up to 40,000 troops, but Stoltenberg said that NATO would not be deploying the entire force. Parts of a force known in NATO jargon as the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which is currently led by France, will also be sent.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has released a video of himself and his senior aides in Kyiv to reassure the nation as Russian troops were closing in on the capital.

In the video Zelenskyy recorded in the street outside the presidential office, he said he and his top officials are staying in the capital.

“Our troops are here, citizens are here,” Zelenskyy said, adding that “All of us are here protecting our independence of our country. And it will continue to be this way. Glory to our defenders, Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes.”

Russian troops bore down on Ukraine’s capital Friday, with gunfire and explosions resonating ever closer to the government quarter.

In the fog of war, it was unclear how much of Ukraine remains under Ukrainian control and how much or little Russian forces have seized. The Kremlin accepted Kyiv’s offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraine’s embattled president instead of a gesture toward a diplomatic solution.

___

ROME — Premier Mario Draghi’s Cabinet on Friday formally approved previously announced participation by 250 Italian military forces and 139 land vehicles in NATO’s enhanced Forward Presence in Latvia, as well as air policing by some 12 aircraft currently deployed in Romania and patrols by an intelligence-gathering aircraft and a refueling aircraft as part of NATO’s shoring up of its eastern flank allies in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The government also approved deployment of 235 military forces aboard two or three naval vessels, as well as an aircraft as part of surveillance and intelligence-gathering in the eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea.

Also getting the government’s formal OK was the mobilization of 1,350 military personnel, involving 77 land vehicles and two naval vessels – with the second one to be deployed in the second half of the year -- as well as five aircraft as part of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force.

Approval was granted for that force to be increased to as many as 1,970 military personnel. The same Cabinet session also granted authorization to provide at no cost non-lethal military equipment to Ukraine, including protective devices for soldiers and de-mining equipment

___

BRUSSELS — Latvia’s foreign minister says the European Union has agreed to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine.

The move indicates that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

Foreign Minister Edgard Rinkevics announced the EU decision Friday in a tweet.

He said another package of sanctions is to be prepared by the EU.

___

PARIS — The leader of the Belarus opposition in exile says the European Union should slap tougher sanctions on Belarus for its role in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Sviatlana Tiskhanouskaya says Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko, a close ally of Russia, has turned her country into “an aggressor” in Ukraine.

She told The Associated Press on Friday that Belarus has become “an aircraft carrier” for the Russian military, carrying troops to Ukraine, re-fueling its war machine and housing soldiers of the invading force.

The United States, the EU, Britain and Canada last year imposed sanctions on Belarusian officials, businesses and several sectors of the economy and the financial system following a brutal crackdown on Lukashenko’s opponents. They were protesting his fraudulent re-election for a sixth term.

French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday called the Belarus government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine and said it will also be targeted with sanctions.

___

WASHINGTON — Russian state broadcaster RT says it was subjected to “massive” denial-of-service attacks after the online collective Anonymous pledged to carry out cyberattacks in support of Ukraine, which is being invaded by Russian forces.

RT said in a statement that the attacks on its websites came from about 100 million devices, mostly based in the U.S. But the broadcaster said it was resolving the issues and its website appeared to be functioning normally Friday.

Anonymous announced a day earlier on Twitter that it is “officially in cyber war against the Russian government” and noted later that the Russian Ministry of Defense website was down.

But it is difficult to attribute a cyberattack to Anonymous or even confirm that someone is a member of a collective that is open to anyone who claims to use hacking for a particular cause.

___

GIBRALTAR — Punitive measures against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine have spread to a tiny speck of territory on Spain’s southern tip, with Gibraltar’s government taking steps against Russia Today television.

Gibraltar on Friday announced it was suspending the Russian state broadcaster for spreading “disinformation.” It also revoked a visa waiver program for Russian citizens.

The office for Chief Minister Fabian Picardo described Russia Today as a “mouthpiece for the Kremlin” that “will become a dangerous source of disinformation that Gibraltar cannot accept on its networks.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s Ministry of Defense says the bulk of Russian forces advancing on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv are more than 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the center of the city.

The ministry said it continues to monitor “sporadic clashes’’ between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the northern suburbs of the capital.

The intelligence update, delivered via Twitter, also said that armored units were forced to open a new route toward Kyiv after failing to capture Chernihiv, a city northeast of the capital near the Belarusian border.

___

BRUSSELS — Europe’s foremost human rights organization has suspended Russia because of its invasion of Ukraine, though it remains a member.

The 47-nation Council of Europe announced Friday that Russia was suspended with “immediate effect” from the Committee of Ministers and the parliamentary assembly “as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed attack on Ukraine.”

The Strasbourg-based organization said Russia remained a member and continued to be bound to the relevant human rights conventions.

“Suspension is not a final measure but a temporary one, leaving channels of communication open,” a statement said.

___

VIENNA — The International Atomic Energy Agency says the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant reported higher-than-usual radiation levels after being taken over by Russian forces invading Ukraine.

But it said Friday that current radiation levels do not pose a threat to the public.

Ukraine’s regulatory authority previously said that increased radiation levels may be due to military vehicles stirring up soil that remains contaminated from the accident in 1986, still known as the worst nuclear disaster in history.

But the measures are “within the operational range measured in the Exclusion Zone since it was established,” according to the IAEA.

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone is a 2,600-square-kilometer (1,000-square-mile) area of forest lying between the Belarus-Ukraine border and the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.

Russian forces took control over the site Thursday after a fierce battle with Ukrainian national guards protecting the plant.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says prospects for possible peace talks between Russia and Ukraine look uncertain due to apparent differences over a venue.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials in Minsk, Belarus, where President Alexander Lukashenko runs a pro-Russian government.

That agreement came in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s offer earlier in the day to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Peskov told reporters that after the parties discussed Minsk as a possible venue, Ukrainian officials changed course and said they were unwilling to travel to Minsk and would prefer to meet in NATO member Poland. They then halted further communication, Peskov said.

Putin has claimed that the western refusal to heed Russia's demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order an invasion of the neighboring country.

___

PRAGUE -- The Czech Republic’s transport minister says his country has banned all Russian airlines from Czech airports, in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Martin Kupka said Friday the ban covers all regular flights between Prague and Moscow and Prague and St. Petersburg, as well as charter flights.

Russian planes will also be banned from landing at the western Czech spa town of Karlovy Vary, a popular destination for Russian tourists. The measure becomes affective at midnight.

Additionally, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said his country will stop issuing visas for Russian citizens and will urge other European Union countries to do the same.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Major retail chains in Lithuania started to remove Russian and Belarusian products from shelves, a move joined by online shops and widely applauded by the public as a protest against Moscow’s decision to invade Ukraine.

Maxima LT, the largest chain in the Baltic nations, said Friday the Russian goods it sells are mainly alcohol, dried products and candy, amounting to millions of euros (dollars) in sales.

Other retailers like drug stores and home suppliers made similar announcements. The Lithuanian postal service said it will not be distributing any more Russian periodicals.

International companies such as IKEA are facing pressure to remove Russian-made goods from sale in the small Baltic country, which fears Russian aggression.

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin has hailed his troops for their courage as they press their offensive across Ukraine and bear down on Kyiv.

Speaking during Friday’s meeting of his Security Council, Putin claimed that most Ukrainian military units are reluctant to engage Russian forces.

He said the units offering resistance are mostly volunteer battalions made up of right-wing Ukrainian nationalists.

He offered no evidence for his claims, which could not be independently verified.

Echoing an earlier Russian military statement, Putin accused Ukrainian forces of deploying heavy weapons in urban areas in several big cities, including Kyiv and Kharkiv, to use civilians as shields.

The Russian president urged the Ukrainian military to end their resistance and turn on their leaders.

___

WARSAW, Poland - European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is in Warsaw for urgent talks with NATO’s nine eastern flank members on how to enhance the region’s security, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The participants were also due to remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, hosting the talks between the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine, in his opening speech said that “demons of a great war, unseen since 1945” have returned to Europe.

NATO’s eastern flank members fear Moscow could also target them.

___

FORT STEWART, Ga. — The U.S. Army says 3,800 soldiers from Fort Stewart, Georgia, are among additional forces deploying to Europe following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Troops from the Army post southwest of Savannah, Georgia, “will deploy to reassure NATO allies, deter further aggression against NATO member states and train with host-nation forces,” Fort Stewart commanders said in a statement late Thursday.

Fort Stewart is home to the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division, which saw multiple combat deployments during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of the 3rd Infantry soldiers heading to Europe are assigned to the division’s 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team.

“The Raider Brigade is trained and equipped to deter aggression and to reassure and defend our allies,” Col. Pete Moon, the 1st Brigade’s commander, said in prepared statement.

The Georgia-based soldiers appear to be among 7,000 additional U.S. forces deploying to Germany to bolster NATO following the invasion of Ukraine. President Joe Biden ordered the deployments Thursday.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Chinese President Xi Jinping he’s ready to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials.

The Kremlin said in its readout of Friday’s call that Xi underlined that he “views the Russian leadership’s action in the crisis situation with respect.”

In a reference to new Western sanctions against Russia over its invasion in Ukraine, the Kremlin noted that Putin and Xi agreed “it’s inadmissible to use illegitimate sanctions for achieving selfish goals of certain countries.”

Chinese state TV reported that Xi emphasized that China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations.”

___

NEW DELHI — Dozens of parents, relatives and friends of Indian students stranded in Ukraine held a demonstration near the Russian Embassy in New Delhi to demand the students' immediate evacuation.

Police barricaded the roads leading to the embassy on Friday and asked the protesters to meet Indian Foreign Ministry officials to discuss the repatriation of nearly 16,000 Indians, including students.

Some of the demonstrators held video conferencing calls with some of those stuck in metro trains and bomb shelters in Kyiv.

``We are running low on food and water in a crowded bunker,” one of the callers in Ukraine said.

Indian Embassy officials are now traveling to border areas of Ukraine touching Poland, Romania Slovakia and Hungary to facilitate the exit of Indian nationals so that they can be evacuated to India, said foreign ministy official Harsh Vardhan Shringla.

___

BRUSSELS — Germany’s foreign minister said Friday that the European Union will take in all people fleeing Ukraine due to the current conflict.

“We need to do everything to immediately take in the people who are now fleeing bombs, fleeing tanks, that’s also what we’ve been preparing for in recent weeks,” Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters in Brussels.

“We tried everything so this day wouldn’t come,” she said. “And it came because the Russian president chose it, opted for war and against human lives.”

“That’s why we will take in all of the people who are fleeing now,” Baerbock said. “We will bring the people from Ukraine to safety.”

___

BUCHAREST, Romania — Moldova’s national naval agency says a ship in “neutral waters” of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.

The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.

“A fire broke out onboard the ship; the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed,” the agency said in a statement. “The ship’s crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets.”

The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.

Rescue operations were carried out by Ukrainian authorities, the Moldovan agency said.

___

LONDON — An expert in international trade says he thinks world leaders are reluctant to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions because it is the “nuclear option” of sanctions.

Disconnecting Russia from SWIFT to try to force President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine would have major economic costs for western countries, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy.

Lee-Makiyama told the BBC that if Russia were cut off for foreign payments for its gas and oi,l it would quickly start expropriating the 300 billion euros EU investors have plowed into the country.

“It’s a nuclear option that it’s going to basically exterminate yourself and your enemy,” he said.

World leaders, who have so far ruled out military intervention in Ukraine, have few good options for deterring Putin because he knows they fear a direct confrontation with Russia, Lee-Makiyama said.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russia is ready to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send the delegation in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's offer to discuss a non-aligned status for Ukraine.

That indicates Zelenskyy would be willing to negotiate dropping his country’s bid to join NATO, as Russia has demanded.

Before the invasion, the West had rejected the demand. Putin claimed the refusal to discuss keeping Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order a military action in Ukraine to “demilitarize” it.

___

BANGKOK — Myanmar’s ruling military council offered its support Friday for Russia’s attack on Ukraine, while the shadow government leading opposition to army rule condemned Moscow’s action.

A statement by the spokesman for Myanmar’s military government said Russia acted correctly to perpetuate its “sovereignty.”

A text message to Myanmar journalists from Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun also said the invasion demonstrated Russia’s position as a “world power” helping to keep global relations in balance.

Myanmar’s military rulers face armed domestic opposition, and like Russia’s leaders now, are the target of strong sanctions from Western governments seeking a return to democratic rule.

Myanmar’s National Unity Government, established by lawmakers prevented from taking their seats when the army seized power in February last year, deplored Moscow’s action.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania — Lithuania's Radio and Television Commission has temporarily suspended the operation of six Russian-language TV channels for their alleged incitement to war and propaganda.

The six TV channels were taken off the air Friday

Planeta RTR, Rossijya 24, Belarus 24, NTV Mir, RTR Planeta and Rossiya 24 were suspended for five years, and PBK and TVCI for three years, commission Vice Chairman Ricardas Slapsys told the Baltic News Service.

Lithuania, the most southern of the three Baltic nations, borders Russia’s Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south.

Latvia banned several Russian television channels had their right to broadcast in Latvia suspended Thursday for several years.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has taken control of an airport just outside Kyiv, as Kremlin forces bear down on the Ukrainian capital.

The claim could not be independently verified.

Taking possession of the airport in Hostomel, which has a long runway allowing the landing of heavy-lift transport planes, would mean Russia can airlift troops directly to Kyiv’s outskirts.

Hostomel is just 7 kilometers (4 miles) northwest of the city.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel and killed over 200 troops belonging to Ukraine's special forces.

Konashenkov claimed that Russian troops suffered no casualties. That contradicts Ukrainian claims that Russian troops sustained heavy casualties in the fighting there.

___

BERLIN — Germany’s Defense Ministry has confirmed media reports that it is deploying additional military assets to NATO’s eastern flank.

German weekly Der Spiegel reported that the deployments included 150 soldiers and about a dozen Boxer armored fighting vehicles, two ships and anti-missile systems.

Ministry spokesman Christian Thiels declined to say Friday exactly how many soldiers were being deployed. But he confirmed that a navy corvette would leave Saturday for patrols in the Baltic while a frigate will be deployed in the Mediterranean, both under NATO command.

Germany is also assessing whether to deploy Patriot anti-missile systems to an eastern European NATO country, Thiels said.

Decisions on deploying further troops could be expected soon, he added.

___

BEIJING — Chinese state TV says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, that Moscow is willing to negotiate with Ukraine, even as Moscow's forces invade its neighbor.

The report Friday followed a Kremlin announcement that Putin’s government was considering an offer by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to negotiate non-aligned status for his country.

Putin said Moscow “is willing to conduct high-level negotiations with the Ukrainian side,” China Central Television reported on its website.

It gave no indication whether Putin said he was responding to Zelenskyy’s offer or gave any details of what the two sides might negotiate.

Russia complains that the United States and its allies ignored Moscow’s “legitimate security concerns” by expanding the NATO military alliance eastward, closer to Russia’s borders.

Xi said China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations,” CCTV said.

___

ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey’s foreign minister says officials are still assessing a request by Ukraine for Turkey to close to Russian shipping the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea.

Mevlut Cavusoglu warned, however, that under a 1936 convention Ankara may not be able to deny total access to the Russian vessels.

Ukraine on Thursday formally asked Turkey to close the Turkish Straits to Russian warships in line with the Montreux Convention which allows Turkey to restrict the passage of belligerent countries’ warships during times of war. The convention stipulates however, that warships belonging to Black Sea coastal countries can return to their bases.

“If there is a demand for the ships of the warring countries to return to their bases, then (passage) must be allowed,” Cavusoglu was quoted as telling Hurriyet newspaper in an interview.

The minister said Turkish experts were assessing if the current situation amounted to "a state of war.”

___

BERLIN — Germany’s president is appealing to Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop the madness of this war now.”

President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin on Friday said that “we don’t want enmity with the Russian people, quite the contrary, but this wrongdoing cannot go without a clear answer.”

Steinmeier, whose post is largely ceremonial but holds moral authority, said that Germany will do its part in deterring Putin from using force against its NATO allies.

The president, who served twice as Germany’s foreign minister, said that Putin “should not underestimate the strength of democracies” and Germans shouldn’t either.

He said it’s good that people are going out to demonstrate, adding: “The Russian president should not believe for a second that people in Germany and Europe simply accept this brutal violence.”

___

VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.

Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of feeling about Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Vatican officials said they knew of no such previous papal initiative.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted “clearly to express his concern about the war.” Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.

Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.

But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.

___

GENEVA — The U.N. human rights office says it is receiving increasing reports of civilian casualties in Ukraine in the wake of Russia’s military invasion.

Spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani of the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights says its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties. They include 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.

She cautioned Friday that the numbers are “very likely to be an underestimate.”

Shamdasani also said the rights office was “disturbed by the multiple arbitrary arrests” of demonstrators in Russia who on Thursday protested against the conflict.

“We understand more than 1,800 protesters were arrested,” she said, before adding that it was unclear how many might have been released already.

Meanwhile, spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo of the U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, said its latest update had that more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine. She said the agency’s planning figures anticipated that “up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.”

___

LONDON — Latvia’s defense minister is criticizing European nations for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network and refusing to provide weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.

Artis Pabriks’ comments came after the U.S. and European Union stopped short of blocking Russia’s access to the SWIFT payments system when they announced a new round of sanctions late Thursday.

Pabriks also chided fellow EU nations that have refused to provide “lethal aid” to Ukraine, saying only the U.K., Greece, Poland and the Baltic states had done so.

In an interview with the BBC on Friday, Pabriks suggested that many European leaders don’t want to take these steps because they would cause economic hardship for their own countries.

“If you are really not ready yourself to spill blood, at least spill money now,’’ he said. “Do it now, because if you lose Ukraine all European geopolitics will change. … There will be much more pressure on Poland, much more pressure on the Baltics.’’

The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia fear they could be the Kremlin’s next target.

___

DAMASCUS, Syria — Syrian President Bashar Assad is praising Russia’s military incursion into Ukraine and denouncing what he calls western “hysteria” surrounding it.

Assad spoke by phone Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“What is happening today is a correction of history and a restoration of balance which was lost in the world after the breakup of the Soviet Union,” Assad said, according to state-run news agency SANA.

He said confronting NATO expansionism is Russia’s right.

Russia is a main backer of Assad’s government and its military intervention in 2015 in the country’s civil war helped tip the balance of power in his favor.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says it will analyze the Ukrainian president’s offer to discuss a non-aligned status for his country, as a Russian military invasion pushes closer to Kyiv.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he was ready to hold talks on the issue.

Asked about Zelenskyy’s offer, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday described it as “a move in a positive direction.”

He said in a conference call with reporters that “we paid attention to that, and now we need to analyze it.”

But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Zelenskyy “is simply lying” when he offers to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Lavrov said at a briefing that Zelenskyy “missed the opportunity” to discuss a neutral status for Ukraine when Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed it.

Putin says the West left him no option but to invade when it rejected Moscow’s demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO.

___

BRUSSELS — A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: “Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.”

Michel announced the move after a call with Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Michel said Kyiv “is under continued attack by Russian forces” and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary has extended temporary legal protection to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion, as countries in eastern Europe prepare for the arrival of refugees at their borders.

Hungary, which borders Ukraine to the west, has in the past taken a firm stance against all forms of immigration. It has controversially refused to accept refugees and asylum seekers from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

But in a decree published late Thursday, Hungary’s government announced that all Ukrainian citizens arriving from Ukraine, and all third-country nationals legally residing there, would be entitled to protection.

The section applying to third-country nationals makes it possible for non-Ukrainians — for example, Belarussian refugees living in Ukraine — to receive protection in the European Union.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that Hungary will play no part in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but that it would accept refugees arriving at its borders.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has expressed his solidarity with Ukraine in telephone call with the country’s leader.

Johnson’s Downing Street office said Friday that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered an update on Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes.

“The prime minister assured President Zelenskyy that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing,’’ Johnson’s office said in a statement. “He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia’s campaign of violence and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.’’

___

BERLIN — The German government says it has suspended the granting of export credit and investment guarantees for business with Russia.

The Economy Ministry said Friday that the granting of new export credit guarantees and investment guarantees for Russia was suspended on Thursday.

The so-called Hermes credit export guarantees protect German companies from losses when exports aren’t paid for. Investment guarantees are granted by the German government to protect direct investments by German companies from political risk in the countries where they are made.

The Economy Ministry said that new export credit guarantees to the tune of 1.49 billion euros ($1.67 billion) were granted last year for business with Russia. New investment guarantees came in at a fraction of that amount, at 3.75 million euros ($4.2 million).

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland’s Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the country’s land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began.

Before that, there were some 12,000 average daily entries from Ukraine into European Union and NATO member Poland, through land, sea and airport checkpoints, according to Border Guard statistics.

Poland has lifted the requirement of COVID-19 quarantine or vaccination certificates for refugees from Ukraine. A number of reception centers with camp beds, soup kitchens and medical care have been organized in locations close to the border with Ukraine.

___

BEIJING — China is holding back from labeling Russia’s attack on Ukraine an invasion.

At the same time, it is upholding the sanctity of territorial sovereignty, in a nod to its own insistence that Taiwan is part of China.

“The sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and maintained,” China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Friday.

“At the same time, we also see that the issue of Ukraine has its own complex and special historical merits, and we understand Russia’s legitimate concerns on security issues,” he added.

Wang did not answer questions about whether China would recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, in Ukrainian territory claimed by Russia, as independent states.

___

MOSCOW — Russia’s civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British government’s ban on Aeroflot flights.

Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.

It said the measure was taken in response to the “unfriendly decisions” by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has destroyed 118 Ukrainian military assets since the beginning of its assault on its neighbor and as it pushes into the outskirts of Kyiv.

The claim could not be independently verified and was not confirmed by Ukraine amid a flurry of claims and counterclaims by each side.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that among the targets were 11 Ukrainian air bases, 13 command facilities, 36 air defense radars, 14 air defense missile systems, 5 warplanes, 18 tanks and warships.

However, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace rejected Russian claims of success on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, saying it had “failed to deliver” on its day one objectives.

Wallace told Sky News that the Western assessment is that Russia had failed to take its major objectives and is behind on its timetable for advance.

“They’ve lost over 450 personnel,’’ he said.

___

BERLIN — Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has condemned Russia’s attack on Ukraine, calling it “a deep cut in European history after the end of the Cold War.”

Germany’s dpa news agency quoted Merkel saying Friday that there was “no justification for this blatant attack of international law. I condemn it in the sharpest possible manner.”

Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and speaks Russian, was heavily engaged in negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her 16 years in office, which ended in December.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s nuclear energy regulatory agency says that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, after it was seized by the Russian military.

The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said Friday that higher gamma radiation levels have been detected in the Chernobyl zone, but didn’t provide details of the increase.

It attributed the rise to a “disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air.”

Ukrainian authorities said that Russia took the plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle Thursday.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible “provocations.” He insisted that radiation levels in the area have remained normal.

The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan warned “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards, Khan said in a statement Friday.

Khan adds that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Kyiv mayor Vitaly Klitschko said at least three people were injured when a rocket hit a multi-story apartment building in Ukraine's capital on Friday, starting a fire.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the Russian military's claim it is not targeting civilian areas is “a lie.” He said that military and civilian areas in Ukraine are both being hit by Russian attacks.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city; from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014; and from Belarus to the north.

___

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that France and its European allies have decided to “inflict very severe blows on Moscow,” further sanctioning individuals and targeting finance, energy and other sectors. The legal texts for the sanctions will be finalized and submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers later Friday.

Macron also said the EU has decided on economic aid for Ukraine in the amount of 1.5 billion euros ($1.68 billion).

The French president also called the Belorussian government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine, and said it will also be targeted.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — As Russian troops continued pressing their offensive Friday, intense fighting also raged in the country’s east.

Russian troops entered the city of Sumy near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east. The regional governor, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said Ukrainian forces fought Russian troops in the city overnight, but other Russian convoys kept rolling west toward the Ukrainian capital.

“Military vehicles from Sumy are moving toward Kyiv,” Zhivitsky said. “Much equipment has passed through and is heading directly to the west.”

Zhivitsky added that another northeastern city, Konotop, was also sieged. He urged residents of the region to fight the Russian forces.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan issued a statement Friday on Twitter while on a visit to Bangladesh, where he is investigating crimes against Myanmar’s Rohingya minority.

Khan said he alerted “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards," Khan added.

He said that “any person who commits such crimes, including by ordering, inciting or contributing in another manner to the commission of these crimes may be liable to prosecution before the Court.”

Khan added that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: With Zelenskyy and a 2nd Russian plane reportedly shot down. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220225ei2p00mau


The UK ambassador to the UN has said "Russia is isolated" after Moscow vetoed a...
5368 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 22:36 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The UK ambassador to the UN has said "Russia is isolated" after Moscow vetoed a UN Security Council resolution calling on it to stop the invasion of Ukraine and withdraw its troops.

Dame Barbara Woodward said following the vote it was "absurd" for Russia to claim the invasion was in self-defence.

"Russia's only act of self-defence is the vote they have cast against this resolution today," Dame Barbara said.

"Make no mistake: Russia is isolated.

"It has no support for the invasion of Ukraine.

"History will record how we voted today and which countries stood up to be counted in defence of the Charter and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.

"The United Kingdom stands steadfast in support of the Ukrainian people and will hold Russia accountable for its aggression."

Milla Jovovich said she was "torn in two" to watch the horror unfolding in her home country of Ukraine, as violence continued.

"I am heartbroken and dumbstruck trying to process the events of this week in my birthplace of Ukraine. My country and people being bombed," the Resident Evil actress wrote online.

"Friends and family in hiding. My blood and my roots come from both Russia and Ukraine.

"I am torn in two as I watch the horror unfolding, the country being destroyed, families being displaced, their whole life lying in charred fragments around them."

Facebook has said it is prohibiting Russian state media from running any advertising on or monetising from its platform.

The firm's head of security policy, Nathaniel Gleicher, said in a statement: "We are now prohibiting Russian state media from running ads or monetising on our platform anywhere in the world.

"We also continue to apply labels to additional Russian state media.

"These changes have already begun rolling out and will continue into the weekend."

Mr Gleicher added Facebook was "closely monitoring" the situation in Ukraine and would "keep sharing steps we're taking to protect people on our platform".

Joe Biden has signed a memorandum on the provision of up to 600 million dollars (£448 million) in immediate military aid to Ukraine.

The document issued by the White House said Mr Biden made the order under part of the Foreign Assistance Act to "determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to 250 million dollars (£187 million) in assistance without regard to any provision of law".

He also signed it "to direct the drawdown of up to an aggregate value of 350 million dollars (£261 million) in defence articles and services of the Department of Defence, and military education and training, and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown".

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has survived a night of Russian assaults on Kyiv and instructed people not to believe "fake news".

"Good morning everybody. Do not believe fake news. I am here," Mr Zelensky said in Ukrainian in a selfie video posted to social media.

"We will not lay down our weapons. We will defend our Country. Our weapons are our strength. This is our land. Our country. Our children. We will protect all of them," he added in the video, which appeared to be shot in downtown Kyiv.

Armed Forces Minister James Heappey has said that Ukrainian forces defending Kyiv have been putting up "incredible resistance".

Mr Heappey said the situation was "very grave" but that the fighting in the capital was so far confined to "very isolated pockets of Russian special forces and paratroopers".

"The main armoured columns approaching Kyiv are still some way off. That is a testament to the incredible resistance the Ukrainian armoured forces have put up over the last 48 hours or so," he told Sky News.

"Clearly the Russian plan is to take Kyiv but the reality is that the Ukrainians are thwarting them thus far.

"It looks like the Russian plan is nowhere near running to schedule.

"I think that will be a great cause of concern for President Putin and rather points to the fact that there was a lot of hubris in the Russian plan and that he may be awfully advised."

Armed forces minister James Heappey has said the UK is looking to continue to supply weapons to the Ukrainian armed forces.

Mr Heappey said that Defence Secretary Ben Wallace chaired a donors conference of Friday with 25 nations, some of whom pledged to send arms and other aid.

"We know what the Ukrainians want. We are doing our best to get it to them," he told Sky News.

Mr Heappey said the Government was working on plans to support a resistance movement and a Ukrainian government in exile if Kyiv does fall.

"That is a decision for the National Security Council to take but it is something that the Prime Minister has asked us in the Ministry of Defence to look at and plan for," he said.

He said that the West was facing a prolonged period of "acute competition" with Russia as it sought to achieve fundamental change in the country.

"There is a 10, 20-year project where the West will be back into quite acute competition, where imposing cost on Putin and the kleptocrats who surround him so that he fails, and he is seen to fail, and he has no opportunity to anoint his successor, and Russia fundamentally changes as a country as a consequence because the Russian people have had enough of him.

"That is something where the UK and our allies have got time to make good strategic decisions."

A former spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin has claimed that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky wants to provoke the Russian army into killing citizens to get Nato to react.

Sergei Markov, who is now deputy chairman of the Russian Public Forum on International Affairs, told Times Radio on Saturday: "He wants to provoke Russian army to use artillery for the big damages of the Ukrainian citizens."

Asked if he was suggesting that President Zelensky wants the Russian army to kill Ukrainian citizens, Mr Markov said: "Exactly. It is his main political (aim) too."

He added: "That's the major goal now - to invoke Nato to stop Russian army."

Mr Markov also said: "Russian army doesn't want to kill Ukrainian soldiers."

He then claimed that 87% of the Ukrainian army joined the Russian army in Crimea in 2014, and that with the current assault on Ukraine, "a majority of the soldiers with Ukrainian army will make decision to join Russian army".

Armed forces minister James Heappey has said Britain and other Western allies would continue to support the Ukrainians in every way they could.

"The more the Ukrainians successfully resist, the more I think they will be emboldened. People are rallying to the flag. There is every chance President Putin has bitten off more than he can chew," he told ITV.

"We, like Ukraine's other allies in the West, will continue to support them in every way we reasonably can but we have to be very clear-eyed about the size of the Russian force he has amassed against them."

Mr Heappey expressed concern that Mr Putin had gone "all in" on the invasion and warned of more "utterly brutal fighting" ahead.

"I think there is a fanaticism and a fervour in his language that is very concerning. He has gone all in on this," he said.

"He has put a huge proportion of the Russian armed forces into this campaign in Ukraine and I am very concerned that he has backed himself into a corner.

"I think you are going to see more and more utterly brutal fighting and some of Russian and Ukraine's bravest and best are going to lose their lives because of Putin's hubris."

Labour MP Stephen Kinnock, who lived in St Petersburg for three years, said President Vladimir Putin has made a "terrible and deeply damaging strategic miscalculation" and "cannot win in this situation".

The Aberavon MP told BBC Breakfast: "We've got to be ready to be in this for the long haul. There will be a long insurgency against Russia if it does seek to occupy Ukraine and, in the end, Russia will lose that insurgency.

"Mr Putin has made a tremendous and terrible and deeply damaging strategic miscalculation here. He cannot win in this situation and the international community has to stand firm against."

Mr Kinnock also argued that Russian citizens do not want "to be a pariah state", saying "I lived and worked in Russia for three years in St Petersburg and the people there, they want to be a part of the international community.

"They do not want to be a pariah state. They do not want to be isolated. They want to engage with the rest of the world.

"So we have to just keep ratcheting up the pressure on Mr Putin and we have to do more to support the Ukrainian armed forces."

Armed forces minister James Heappey said Britain is continuing to press for Russia to be excluded from the Swift system of international banking payments.

Mr Heappey said it was the "ultimate economic sanction" but that more diplomacy was needed to get international agreement.

"Swift is not a unilateral decision that the UK can take," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

"We will continue to push with every means at out disposal - and we have encouraged parliamentarians to reach to their networks of parliamentarians around Europe - in order to change some minds.

"That really is the ultimate economic sanction. It is the one that the UK Government wants to see enacted.

"It is just clear that there is more diplomacy required before that is going to happen."

Armed forces minister James Heappey said the Ukrainian military was facing a prolonged struggle with the Russians which could carry on for months.

"Nobody should think that this is anywhere near over. What stands in front of Ukraine, its armed forces and very tragically its people, is days, weeks months more of what we have seen over that last 48 hours," he told BBC Breakfast.

"President Putin, if you listen to his speeches, look at his press conferences over the last two or three days, there has been a fanaticism in the language that he used, a fervour in the tone of his voice. He has gone all in on this.

"I am afraid that that means that what is in front of Ukraine is bloody, brutal. We will do everything we can to help them resist but people shouldn't necessarily think that a happy ending is just around the corner.

"This is going to be a long slog. It is going to be brutal. We are going to see some horrendous things on our TV screens."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted: "Yesterday I urged NATO and Nordic partners to do all they can to support Ukraine and Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

"I am pleased even more allies have come forward with defensive and humanitarian aid. We must stand with the Ukrainian people as they defend their country and democracies everywhere."

Tobias Ellwood, Conservative chairman of the Defence Committee, said there are "huge lesson" to be learned in understanding the "wider geopolitical picture that is now changing in front of us".

The former soldier recalled serving in Bosnia, telling ITV News: "Nato wasn't part of Bosnia there, but there was a commitment to European security, and now we are playing catch-up.

"We're actually reacting to events rather than getting ahead of them. And the big question is - when do you stand up to Putin? Do you make sure that you hold him back today?

"Or do you allow him to advance and end up having a bigger battle later on when you realise what his intentions are.

"Things won't stop here. Let's make this very, very clear. Putin's ideological intention to expand his sphere of influence will go way beyond Ukraine."

Tobias Ellwood said there are "many ways" Ukraine can be assisted other than "putting in boots on the ground".

The MP told ITV News: "We need to reconsider this no-fly zone, let's say west of the Dnieper River, because that would change the optics here."

Mr Ellwood added: "If we don't stand our ground now, where will this go? And don't forget there are other adversaries around the world, namely China, watching very carefully how the West reacts here."

He said if the West is seen to be "timid" or "risk-averse" then China "will take full advantage of that weakness too".

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said almost 116,000 people have fled Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Thursday.

It tweeted: "Latest update is that almost 116,000 have fled to neighbouring countries since 24 Feb - mainly Poland, Hungary, Moldova, Slovakia and Romania.

"Numbers are rising."

The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "Russian forces have continued their advance on Kyiv with the bulk of their forces now 30km from the centre of the city.

"Russia has yet to gain control of the airspace over Ukraine, greatly reducing the effectiveness of the Russian Air Force.

"Ukrainian Armed Forces continue to put up staunch resistance across the country.

"Russian casualties are likely to be heavy and greater than anticipated or acknowledged by the Kremlin."

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have said they "stand" with the people of Ukraine as they "bravely fight" for their future.

In a personal tweet signed by the couple, they wrote: "In October 2020 we had the privilege to meet President Zelenskyy and the First Lady to learn of their hope and optimism for Ukraine's future.

"Today we stand with the President and all of Ukraine's people as they bravely fight for that future."

Home Secretary Priti Patel tweeted: "I have cancelled the visas of the Belarusian Men's Basketball Team who were due to play in Newcastle tomorrow night.

"The UK will not welcome the national sports teams of those countries who are complicit in Putin's unprovoked and illegal invasion of £Ukraine."

In Manchester, hundreds gathered in Piccadilly Gardens for a Stand For Ukraine rally.

The crowd, many wearing Ukrainian blue and yellow flags and with traditional flower headbands, sang Ukrainian songs and chanted: "Stop Putin. Stop the war."

Prayers in Ukrainian and English were led by a priest.

Many held placards with slogans including "Help victims in Ukraine", "Stop Russian Hitler" and "Putin lies, Ukraine never dies".

One woman who spoke at the rally in Manchester said her mother was Russian and her father was Ukrainian.

She said she had seen on the news that a missile had hit an apartment building in the district of Kyiv where she grew up.

She told the crowd: "It's happening now and you will be next eventually.

"Kyiv is three hours' flight from Manchester. It is Europe, we are a democratic, peaceful country.

"Why do we have war? It's only because of Putin, who is a complete nut job."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted that he head spoken the Dutch prime minister about the situation in Ukraine: "I spoke to Mark Rutte this afternoon to thank him for strong cooperation in ensuring a supply of defensive aid to Ukraine. We discussed SWIFT and the need for urgent action to exclude Russia.

"The UK and the Netherlands are united in our condemnation of Putin's attack on Ukraine."

The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "The speed of the Russian advance has temporarily slowed likely as a result of acute logistical difficulties and strong Ukrainian resistance.

"Russian forces are bypassing major Ukrainian population centres while leaving forces to encircle and isolate them.

"Overnight clashes in Kyiv are likely to have involved limited numbers of pre-positioned Russian sabotage groups.

"The capture of Kyiv remains Russia's primary military objective."

Sir Keir Starmer has called for the expulsion of Russia's ambassador to the UK following the invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham, the Labour leader said the Government should order Andrei Kelin to leave the country immediately.

"I think the Russian ambassador should be told to leave the country," he said in a pooled clip for broadcasters.

"Russia is invading a European country. It isn't right that he is here. He should be told to go straight away."

Sir Keir said the Government needed to move further and faster on sanctions against Russia.

"We have got to break open these companies that are supporting Putin, anybody who is supporting his regime. So we need to go further and faster on this," he said.

Sir Keir Starmer has said Britain should be prepared to take in Ukrainian refugees fleeing the Russian invasion.

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham, the Labour leader said the Government has "got this one wrong" in continuing to apply existing rules for Ukranians.

"We must help Ukrainian people looking for safety. That is what we have always done as a country in a moment like this," he said in a pooled clip for broadcasters.

"The Government has got this one wrong. They are applying the same rules as they had before."

He called for a "humanitarian approach" with "sanctuary for those who are fleeing from Russian aggression, fleeing from this invasion, fleeing for their lives".

He added: "We must do more in this respect."

Sir Keir Starmer urged the Government to come forward with legislation to expose Russian oligrachs who hide their wealth by buying up property in the UK as quickly as possible.

Announcing the sanctions package in the Commons on Thursday, Boris Johnson said ministers would set out measures before Easter for a register of overseas property ownership.

Following reports that the Government was preparing to fasttrack the legislation, Sir Keir said Labour would support such a move.

"The Government says it is bringing forward primary legislation. My message to them is 'Get on with it'. We will fully support it," he in a pooled clip for broadcasters during a visit to Birmingham.

"It can go through Parliament very, very quickly. We have been calling for this legislation to break open companies to see who the real beneficiaries are for years.

"This will now go through because we will support it but it won't be enforced for months to come so I am frustrated that it has taken this long for the Government to come forward."

Police have intervened after a man holding a Russian flag close to a Ukrainian protest in London was almost punched.

The man, who had an English accent, stood across the road from the Russian embassy and was confronted by a number of protesters.

As police urged him to leave, a woman who was visibly angry shouted: "People are dying how can you support him?"

She raised a fist and swung her arm towards the man before police intervened.

The man put the flag away and left.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he has spoken by telephone with Boris Johnson and expressed gratitude for Britain's support.

Mr Zelensky tweeted: "Grateful to the British Prime Minister for his position, new decisions to enhance the combat capabilities of the Ukrainian army. Agreed on further joint steps to counter the aggressor."

Downing Street said Boris Johnson and President Zelensky "agreed on the need for the international community to isolate Russia completely diplomatically and financially".

In a statement, No 10 said: "The Prime Minister spoke to Ukrainian President Zelenskyy this evening.

"He paid tribute to the incredible heroism and bravery of President Zelenskyy and the Ukrainian people.

"The leaders agreed that President Putin is being met with a greater Ukrainian resistance than he calculated on.

"The Prime Minister updated on the UK's support to Ukraine and the progress rallying international partners to hold Russia to account for their campaign of destruction.

"The leaders agreed on the need for the international community to isolate Russia completely diplomatically and financially. They welcomed the increased willingness to take action on excluding Russia from SWIFT.

"The Prime Minister and President Zelenskyy expressed their mutual concern about the role Belarus is playing as a conduit for President Putin's violence. "

YouTube has announced it is taking action against a number of channels in response to Russia's assault on Ukraine, including restricting access to Russian state-controlled broadcaster RT.

In a statement on Saturday, a spokesperson said: "In light of extraordinary circumstances in Ukraine, we're taking a number of actions.

"We're pausing a number of channels' ability to monetise on YouTube, including several Russian channels affiliated with recent sanctions.

"We will be significantly limiting recommendations to these channels.

"And in response to a government request, we've restricted access to RT and a number of other channels in Ukraine.

"We will continue to monitor new developments and may take further actions."

Speaking at RAF Brize Norton, Boris Johnson said: "Let's be in no doubt, things are not going all the way of President Putin, very far from it.

"The Ukrainians are fighting heroically, and in some places with great success, as many of us thought they would because they're a great country and a very brave country.

"But as you rightly point out, there are some terrible atrocities being committed and there will be some very grim days ahead for Ukraine.

"We've got to do everything we can to change the heavy odds that Ukraine faces and to help them, and so that's why we're sending humanitarian supplies, we're sending financial supplies and military supplies as well.

"The UK was the first European country to send military aid to Ukraine. Last night, many other countries joined in sending, in pledging to send military assistance, you're starting to see that grow."

The Department of Foreign Affairs has told Irish citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Russia.

In an update to travel guidance, the Department said: "Due to the ongoing disruption to flight services to and from Russia, the Department of Foreign Affairs is advising citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Russia at this time.

"Further flight cancellations and uncertainty on travel routes from Russia are expected in the coming days.

"Citizens with plans to depart from Russia should consult closely with their airline and/or travel agent, and consider booking flights sooner than planned, in case of widening disruptions in the coming period."

Boris Johnson said President Putin's engagement in diplomacy was a "charade" and that he has a "weird, semi-mystical view of Ukraine as part of Russia".

Speaking on Saturday night, the Prime Minister said: "I think we have to face the hideous reality that the diplomacy, as far as President Putin was concerned, was a charade.

"He never really intended to alter his course. You read the article that he wrote many months ago - it was clear that he's attached to a weird, semi-mystical view of Ukraine as part of Russia.

"And that is a view that the Ukrainian people fervently, passionately reject and they're showing that they will fight to reject it.

"Our job now is to help them, to help change the very heavy odds they face and that's why we're sending the support their way."

Mr Johnson said: "You ask 'Should we do more?' The answer is yes. And we need to make sure that we apply those much tougher economic sanctions, including Swift, and what's starting to happen is that the horror of what is unfolding in Ukraine is becoming clear to Western audiences, and that is, in turn, putting huge pressure on Western politicians.

"We've got to act together and we've got to do more."

Boris Johnson said there is "fake news" online about the UK not taking refugees.

Asked why the UK is not taking in refugees like some other countries, he told reporters: "Of course we're going to take refugees. This country's had a historic and proud role in taking refugees from all conflicts.

"And if you think what we did in Afghanistan, for instance, the UK was way out in front.

"I'm aware that there's some fake news on the internet about that and I really want to knock that on the head.

"The UK is way out in front in our willingness to help with refugees.

"We've sent 1,000 troops to the theatre, to be ready to help with the influx and of course we will help people fleeing in fear of their lives."

Boris Johnson said the Swift banking system is "incredibly important" for putting economic pressure on Russia.

Asked whether the UK needs to do more to push other countries to ban Russia from Swift, Mr Johnson said: "I think that what you've seen just today is more countries joining the call of the UK to use Swift.

"Swift is the mechanism that stops people making payments to Vladimir Putin's Russia.

"It's incredibly important for tightening the ligature - the economic ligature - around the Putin regime.

"And today you've seen more and more countries, France and others, coming forward to say that they will not block a banning, a boycott of Swift."

Boris Johnson said it is "inconceivable" that sporting relations can continue with Russia under Vladimir Putin.

Asked if the UK should break off sporting connections with Russia following Poland and Sweden's refusal to play the national football team in the World Cup play-offs, Mr Johnson called the situation "sad".

"I mean, it's a sad thing because I don't think we've had a situation like this for a very, very long time," the Prime Minister said.

"But it's inconceivable to me to imagine that normal sporting relations with Putin's Russia can continue."

Asked about whether it is frustrating that countries like China abstained from the UN Security Council vote to condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Boris Johnson said "outrage and disgust" is growing in countries that have so far been "apathetic".

"I think what you're seeing today, and over the last few hours, is a sense around the world that this is a horror that they simply hadn't expected," he said.

"And I think that feeling is strong and growing, not just in countries in the middle ground, but in Russia itself you're starting to see that feeling that this is something unconscionable.

"So I think (in) the countries that have been apathetic on this issue so far, a sense of of outrage and disgust is growing at what the Putin regime is doing in Ukraine.

"In the meantime, the UK is going to do everything we can to help and support our friends in Ukraine."

Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, has condemned the "barbaric actions" during Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Ursula von der Leyen has announced an enhanced package of sanctions against Russia.

In a statement on Saturday, the EU Commission president said: "The Russian army is committing barbaric actions during its invasion of Ukraine.

"It is bombing and launching missiles, killing innocent people.

"At the same time, the entire world is witnessing the determined and brave resistance by the Ukrainian army and population."

The UK has agreed with the EU and US to cut some Russian banks out of the Swift banking system.

A statement issued by the White House said: "We, the leaders of the European Commission, France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States condemn Putin's war of choice and attacks on the sovereign nation and people of Ukraine. We stand with the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people in their heroic efforts to resist Russia's invasion. Russia's war represents an assault on fundamental international rules and norms that have prevailed since the Second World War, which we are committed to defending. We will hold Russia to account and collectively ensure that this war is a strategic failure for Putin.

"This past week, alongside our diplomatic efforts and collective work to defend our own borders and to assist the Ukrainian government and people in their fight, we, as well as our other allies and partners around the world, imposed severe measures on key Russian institutions and banks, and on the architects of this war, including Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"As Russian forces unleash their assault on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities, we are resolved to continue imposing costs on Russia that will further isolate Russia from the international financial system and our economies. We will implement these measures within the coming days.

"Specifically, we commit to undertake the following measures:

"First, we commit to ensuring that selected Russian banks are removed from the SWIFT messaging system. This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally.

"Second, we commit to imposing restrictive measures that will prevent the Russian Central Bank from deploying its international reserves in ways that undermine the impact of our sanctions.

Third, we commit to acting against the people and entities who facilitate the war in Ukraine and the harmful activities of the Russian government. Specifically, we commit to taking measures to limit the sale of citizenship-so called golden passports-that let wealthy Russians connected to the Russian government become citizens of our countries and gain access to our financial systems.

Fourth, we commit to launching this coming week a transatlantic task force that will ensure the effective implementation of our financial sanctions by identifying and freezing the assets of sanctioned individuals and companies that exist within our jurisdictions. As a part of this effort we are committed to employing sanctions and other financial and enforcement measures on additional Russian officials and elites close to the Russian government, as well as their families, and their enablers to identify and freeze the assets they hold in our jurisdictions. We will also engage other governments and work to detect and disrupt the movement of ill-gotten gains, and to deny these individuals the ability to hide their assets in jurisdictions across the world.

"Finally, we will step up or co-ordination against disinformation and other forms of hybrid warfare."

Ms von der Leyen said: "As Russian forces unleash their assault on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities, we are resolved to continue imposing massive costs on Russia that will further isolate Russia from the international financial system and our economies.

"In co-ordination with President Biden, President Macron, Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Prime Minister Draghi as well as Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime Minister Johnson, we considered a significant tightening of our international response.

"The European Union and its partners are working to cripple Putin's ability to finance his war machine."

Ms von der Leyen told the news conference: "I will now propose to EU leaders the following measures.

"First, we commit to ensuring that a certain number of Russian banks are removed from Swift. This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally.

"Swift is the world's dominant global interbank payment system. Cutting banks off will stop them from conducting most of their financial transactions worldwide and effectively block Russian exports and imports.

"Second, we will stop Putin from using his war chest. We will paralyse the assets of Russia's central bank. This will freeze its transactions and it will make it impossible for the central bank to liquidate assets.

"And finally, we will work to prohibit Russian oligarchs from using their financial assets on our markets. All of these measures will significantly harm Putin's ability to finance his war and they will have an eroding, a severely eroding, impact on his economy.

"Putin embarked on a path aiming to destroy Ukraine but what he's also doing, in fact, is destroying the future of his own country."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220226ei2q000b5


Russia-Ukraine crisis: 'Romania to provide evacuated Indian students with food, accommodation,' says envoy
Sidhant Sibal
Distributed by Contify.com
589 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日
DNA India Online
DNADAI
英文
Copyright 2022. Diligent Media Corporation Ltd.
Romania's envoy to Delhi Daniela-Mariana Sezonov Ţane has said that her country will be providing food and accommodation to students who are being evacuated from war-torn Ukraine. Speaking to our Principal Diplomatic Correspondent Sidhant Sibal, envoy Daniela said, "Romanian govt offered support for a couple of days with food accommodation to students and not only students but also Indian citizens coming from Ukraine".

The first batch of Indian students earlier today crossed the Indian evacuees from Ukraine reached Romania via the Suceava border crossing. The Ministry of external affairs' teams at Suceava will now facilitate travel to Bucharest for their onward journey to India. Indian government-chartered flights are expected to reach the country to ferry them back home.

She also expressed worries over refugee influx saying, "There is a crisis cell in Romania preparing for refugees. We don't know, how many they will be." The Indian external affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar on Thursday had spoken to a number of eastern European foreign ministers including Romanian FM with a focus on the unfolding crisis in Ukraine and the evacuation of Indian nationals.

Here's the interview:

Sidhant Sibal: How worried is Romania when it comes to the ongoing Russian invasion of Poland?

Daniela-Mariana Sezonov Ţane: I think everybody is worried, not only my government but also the Indian govt, EU countries all worried. Frontline countries, neighbouring countries, like Romania, Poland, also Hungary which may have to face a big influx of refugees, we are worried, we have to prepare for that. There is a crisis cell in Romania preparing for refugees. We don't know, how many they will be. It is very difficult to predict, it's impossible for the time being to know what will unfold. What we hope is that in the 12th hour, diplomacy will prevail and Putin will stop his attacks. As you may know, the EU stand together, we have a common position, a very strong common position of the 27 EU member countries against the Russian aggression calling to a halt for the cessation of hostilities and announcing very strong sanction measures against Russia if this situation continues.

Sidhant Sibal: In India, both foreign ministers have spoken to each other, plans to bring Indian students to your country, if you can give us the details?

Daniela-Mariana Sezonov Ţane: Yes it's right, yesterday evening the minister Jaishankar spoke to minister Bogdan Aurescu and Romania will give its full support to the Indian students crossing the border into our country. Actually, there are consular teams from India that probably have reached the border with Ukraine in the north of the country and they will help the students reach Bucharest and from Bucharest, there will be a flight from India organized by the Indian govt. Romanian govt offered support for a couple of days with food accommodation to students and not only students but also Indian citizens coming from Ukraine but we also have to prepare for a longer stay of refugees from Ukraine. Because Indian citizens will be taken care of by the Indian government, we are in full support of them and as I have said, will help them for a couple of days but longer-term probably will have to prepare for support and humanitarian assistance for the Ukrainian refugees. If the crisis will continue, they might have to stay longer in our countries.

Diligent Media Corporation Ltd.

文件 DNADAI0020220227ei2q0000k


Live updates: Unclear if Japan to join in Russia sanctions
The Associated Press 
8962 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 02:53 GMT
The Canadian Press
CPR
英文
(c) 2022 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis [https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46]:

TOKYO — Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi says he spoke with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken , on the phone Saturday and they agreed they must respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine properly to prevent it from becoming “a wrong lesson” because of its potential influence in Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.

Hayashi declined to comment if Japan plans to join the United States, Britain and the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov . Hayashi said Japan will stay in close touch with other Group of Seven members and other international leaders while watching the developments.

Hayashi told reporters that he and Blinken reaffirmed their commitment to work closely with the rest of international society and they agreed it is necessary to reject Russia's unilateral act to change the status quo.

___

KYIV, Ukraine -- Ukraine’s military says it has shot down a Russian military transport plane with paratroopers on board.

According to a statement from the military’s General Staff, the Il-76 heavy transport plane was shot down near Vasylkiv, a city 40 kilometers south of Kyiv. The Russian military has not commented on the incident so far, and the report could not be immediately verified.

___

UNITED NATIONS—Russia has vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution demanding that Moscow stop its attack on Ukraine and withdraw all troops.

Friday’s vote was 11-1, with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining. It showed significant but not total opposition to Russia’s invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbor.

The United States and other supporters knew the resolution wouldn’t pass but argued it would highlight Russia’s international isolation. The resolution’s failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the U.N. General Assembly . There are no vetoes in the 193-member assembly. There’s no timetable as yet for a potential Assembly vote.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria on Friday introduced a ban on the entry of Russian aircraft into the country’s airspace.

All aircraft licensed by the Russian Federation may not enter the sovereign airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the airspace over its territorial waters, the government announced. The ban is effective starting Saturday.

The government said it took the action in connection with the escalation of the military conflict and in solidarity with Ukraine.

___

SYDNEY—Australia is imposing sanctions against all 339 members of the Russian parliament and is considering sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne also announced on Saturday sanctions against eight Russian oligarchs close to Putin. Australia was also taking steps to imposed sanctions on key figures in the Belarusian government who had aided the Ukraine invasion.

Payne said she was seeking advice from her department on following western allies’ example in sanctioning Putin.

“It is an exceptional step to sanction leaders, but this is an exceptional situation,” Payne said.

___

WASHINGTON—Ukraine’s top diplomatic envoy in the U.S. is urging countries to sever diplomatic relations with Russia over its invasion of their country.

Ambassador Oksana Markarova ’s request came in an emergency meeting Friday at the Washington-based Organization of American States , whose members were debating a resolution condemning the military attack ordered by President Vladimir Putin .

“It’s hard to imagine that something like this happens in the center of Europe in the 21st Century,” an emotional Markarova said during the meeting. She urged delegates to supply Ukraine with defensive weapons and follow the lead of the Federated States of Micronesia, a Pacific island nation that earlier Friday broke all ties with Russia.

Alexander Kim, a senior diplomat at Russia’s embassy in Washington, towed closely to the Kremlin’s unsubstantiated claim that the military incursion was an attempt to “de-Nazify” a government that had committed scores of atrocities against civilians.

“We are open to diplomacy,” Kim told representatives of more than 30 Latin American governments, many of whom have pursued closer relations with Moscow in recent years. “However, diplomacy presumes an ability to negotiate. It is not a tool for blackmailing and imposing the decision of Washington and its satellite states.”

___

LONDON—British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he is in “close contact” with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy , as he hailed “the fierce bravery and patriotism” of Ukraine’s government and people.

In a recorded message, Johnson said “the scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy,” calling it bloodshed Europe has not seen in a generation or more.

He said “the people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.”

Johnson also urged Russians to oppose the invasion, which he called “a tragedy for Russia” as well as for Ukraine.

Speaking in Russian, he said: “I do not believe this war is in your name.”

Britain has imposed asset freezes and other sanctions on scores of Russian companies and several oligarchs, and has joined the U.S., Canada and the European Union in slapping sanctions on President Vladimir Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov .

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary—Hungary’s foreign minister has offered Budapest as a possible location for negotiations between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine as Russia’s invasion intensifies.

“Budapest can serve as a safe venue for both the Russian and Ukrainian negotiation delegations,” Peter Szijjarto said in a video on Facebook late Friday, adding that he had made the proposal to both Russia’s and Ukraine’s governments, neither of which dismissed it.

“I sincerely hope that an agreement can be reached within a few hours or days to start discussions; the sooner the talks begin, the sooner there will be peace and the fewer people will have to die in the war,” Szijjarto said.

___

BRUSSELS—With a military intervention in Ukraine off the table, countries around the world are looking to heap more financial punishment on Moscow.

The United States, Britain and European Union said Friday they will move to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov .

The EU ’s unanimous decision, part of a broader sanctions package, indicated that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban.

___

TORONTO—Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is announcing sanctions on Russian Vladimir Putin , his chief of staff and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov .

Trudeau also says Canada supports the removal of Russia from the SWIFT banking system.

The prime minister is also announcing sanctions against Belarus.

Meanwhile, Canada’s largest province is pulling Russian products from shelves from government owned liquor stores.

Ontario Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy says the province joins Canada’s allies in condemning the Russian government’s act of aggression against the Ukrainian people, and will direct the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to withdraw all products produced in Russia from store shelves.

The French-speaking province of Quebec is also considering banning Russian liquor.

___

UNITED NATIONS—The U.N . plans to seek over $1 billion in donations for humanitarian relief in Ukraine over the next three months, the world body’s humanitarian chief said Friday.

Martin Griffiths said at a news briefing that the exact amount of the appeal is still being decided but will be “well north of $1 billion.”

The U.N . announced Thursday that it was immediately allocating $20 million to expand its humanitarian operations in Ukraine. Even before Russia’s attack this week, the world body estimated about 3 million people were in need of aid after years of fighting between Russian-backed separatists and the Ukrainian government in the country’s east.

Now, “the scale of need in these very, very extraordinary circumstances is going to be of the highest,” Griffiths said.

The U.N . issues multiple appeals each year for international donors, mainly governments, to finance humanitarian efforts in trouble spots around the world. Last month, it requested more than $5 billion for Afghanistan, the largest-ever appeal tied to a single country.

___

RICHMOND, Va.—Criminal ransomware operators are posting messages on the dark web pledging to launch retaliatory cyberattacks if Russia is attacked.

The ransomware group Conti, which experts say has ties to Russia, said in a note on its dark web site Friday that it would “use all our possible resources to strike back at the critical infrastructures of an enemy.”

Ransomware gangs are mostly Russian-speaking and operate with near impunity out of Russia and allied countries.

In a follow up note, the Conti group stressed it was not an ally of any government and said: “we condemn the ongoing war.”

Major ransomware attacks in the last year, including against the biggest U.S. fuel pipeline, have underscored how gangs of extortionist hackers can disrupt the economy and put lives and livelihoods at risk. The U.S. government has been warning critical infrastructure entities to prepare for possible attacks and to make sure their defenses are up to date.

Non-state hackers have promised to be active in both sides of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The online collective Anonymous recently pledged to conduct cyberattacks to support Ukraine.

___

BERLIN—The German government says it plans to deploy troops and the Patriot anti-missile system to Slovakia as part of NATO plans to strengthen the alliance’s eastern flank.

The Defense Ministry said Friday that it plans to send an infantry company as part of a combat troop battalion. And it said that Germany also will contribute the Patriot system.

The ministry stressed that the so-called “enhanced vigilance activity battlegroup” has a purely defensive function.

Slovakia is a NATO and European Union member that borders Ukraine. Germany already is beefing up its troop contingent in Lithuania, another nation on NATO ’s eastern flank.

___

KYIV, Ukraine--Russian troops are bearing down on Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv.

Mayor Vitaly Klitschko says five explosions hit an area near a major power plant on the city’s eastern outskirts. There was no information on the cause of the blasts, which Klitschko said occurred at intervals of several minutes. No electricity outages were immediately reported.

The invasion of a democratic country has fueled fears of wider war in Europe and triggered worldwide efforts to make Russia stop.

___

BELGRADE, Serbia—Serbia defied calls from the European Union and the U.S. to join sanctions against Russia, although its autocratic president said that Moscow’s assault against Ukraine is against the international law.

With the move, Serbia remains a rare European state together with Belarus not to join Western sanctions introduced against Moscow for its invasion of a sovereign European state.

“Serbia respects the norms of the international law,” President Aleksandar Vucic said. “But Serbia also understands its own interests.”

Vucic said that Serbia regards the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity as “very wrong,” but added it won’t join international sanctions against Russia.

Despite formally seeking EU membership, Serbia has been strengthening ties with its traditional Slavic ally Russia. Moscow has been supplying Serbia’s armed forces with weapons, leading to more tensions in the Balkans which went through a bloody civil war in the 1990s.

___

ROME—Thousands of Romans and Ukrainians who live in the Italian capital marched side-by-side to the Colosseum to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

They took up the call by Rome’s mayor to clutch lit candles on Friday evening and walk from the square atop the Capitoline Hill to the ancient arena, a few minutes’ stroll away.

Several of the Ukrainians among the marchers wept. They put a hand over their heart while singing the Ukrainian anthem. Others held Ukrainian flags or protest signs or shouted, “hands off our country” or voiced other denunciations of Russian President Vladimir Putin .

Among the marchers was Ruslan Yakubovskyy, a Ukrainian.

“I live here, I bought a home here, my family is here, but I am thinking about going back to Ukraine to fight and lend a helping hand,″ he said. “The situation is so difficult that either it’s that the rest of the world is pretending not to see or it doesn’t want to see it at all."

City Hall and the Colosseum were illuminated in the colors of the Ukrainian flag, yellow and blue.

___

WARSAW, Poland - Presidents of NATO ’s eastern flank member states gathered Friday in Warsaw voiced their support for tough sanctions on Russia and its leaders for the invasion of Ukraine.

Nine presidents of the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine held a security summit with the participation of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen . They also remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

“There cannot be any ‘business as usual’ in this situation in relations with Russia because that would have been a betrayal of the principles of the honest, open world,” Poland’s President Andrzej Duda , said after the talks that he had hosted.

___

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain would introduce sanctions against Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to inflict maximum punishment for invading Ukraine, his Downing Street office said Friday.

Johnson’s pledge comes as the European Union approved an asset freeze on Putin and Lavrov. The comments from Johnson suggest that Western powers are acting in concert on unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor.

In comments to NATO leaders, the UK leader pressed again for immediate action to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions. European nations have faced criticism for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network in offering sanctions on Thursday.

Johnson said “the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression.”

___

TIRANA, Albania—Albania's prime minister on Friday said the tiny Western Balkan country would welcome Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking after a NATO summit Prime Minister Edi Rama said that like all the other NATO member countries, Albania would be ready to welcome a few thousand Ukrainians leaving their country due to the Russian invasion.

Rama did not give any concrete number.

Albania, a NATO member since 2009, has followed the United States and European Union on its stand denouncing Russian invasion.

Albania was the first to offer shelter and then house some 2,400 Afghan evacuees after the Taliban came to power in August last year. Some 300 have already left, mainly for the United States.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday that U.S. President Joe Biden and his counterparts have agreed to send parts of the organization’s response force to help protect allies in the east over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking after chairing a NATO meeting, Stoltenberg said the leaders decided to send parts of the NATO Response Force and elements of a quickly deployed spearhead unit. He did not say how many troops would be deployed, but confirmed that the move would involve land, sea and air power.

The NRF can number up to 40,000 troops, but Stoltenberg said that NATO would not be deploying the entire force. Parts of a force known in NATO jargon as the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which is currently led by France, will also be sent.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has released a video of himself and his senior aides in Kyiv to reassure the nation as Russian troops were closing in on the capital.

In the video Zelenskyy recorded in the street outside the presidential office, he said he and his top officials are staying in the capital.

“Our troops are here, citizens are here,” Zelenskyy said, adding that “All of us are here protecting our independence of our country. And it will continue to be this way. Glory to our defenders, Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes.”

Russian troops bore down on Ukraine’s capital Friday, with gunfire and explosions resonating ever closer to the government quarter.

In the fog of war, it was unclear how much of Ukraine remains under Ukrainian control and how much or little Russian forces have seized. The Kremlin accepted Kyiv’s offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraine’s embattled president instead of a gesture toward a diplomatic solution.

___

ROME — Premier Mario Draghi ’s Cabinet on Friday formally approved previously announced participation by 250 Italian military forces and 139 land vehicles in NATO ’s enhanced Forward Presence in Latvia, as well as air policing by some 12 aircraft currently deployed in Romania and patrols by an intelligence-gathering aircraft and a refueling aircraft as part of NATO ’s shoring up of its eastern flank allies in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The government also approved deployment of 235 military forces aboard two or three naval vessels, as well as an aircraft as part of surveillance and intelligence-gathering in the eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea.

Also getting the government’s formal OK was the mobilization of 1,350 military personnel, involving 77 land vehicles and two naval vessels – with the second one to be deployed in the second half of the year -- as well as five aircraft as part of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force.

Approval was granted for that force to be increased to as many as 1,970 military personnel. The same Cabinet session also granted authorization to provide at no cost non-lethal military equipment to Ukraine, including protective devices for soldiers and de-mining equipment

___

BRUSSELS — Latvia’s foreign minister says the European Union has agreed to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine.

The move indicates that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

Foreign Minister Edgard Rinkevics announced the EU decision Friday in a tweet.

He said another package of sanctions is to be prepared by the EU.

___

PARIS — The leader of the Belarus opposition in exile says the European Union should slap tougher sanctions on Belarus for its role in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Sviatlana Tiskhanouskaya says Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko , a close ally of Russia, has turned her country into “an aggressor” in Ukraine.

She told The Associated Press on Friday that Belarus has become “an aircraft carrier” for the Russian military, carrying troops to Ukraine, re-fueling its war machine and housing soldiers of the invading force.

The United States, the EU, Britain and Canada last year imposed sanctions on Belarusian officials, businesses and several sectors of the economy and the financial system following a brutal crackdown on Lukashenko’s opponents. They were protesting his fraudulent re-election for a sixth term.

French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday called the Belarus government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine and said it will also be targeted with sanctions.

___

WASHINGTON — Russian state broadcaster RT says it was subjected to “massive” denial-of-service attacks after the online collective Anonymous pledged to carry out cyberattacks in support of Ukraine, which is being invaded by Russian forces.

RT said in a statement that the attacks on its websites came from about 100 million devices, mostly based in the U.S. But the broadcaster said it was resolving the issues and its website appeared to be functioning normally Friday.

Anonymous announced a day earlier on Twitter that it is “officially in cyber war against the Russian government” and noted later that the Russian Ministry of Defense website was down.

But it is difficult to attribute a cyberattack to Anonymous or even confirm that someone is a member of a collective that is open to anyone who claims to use hacking for a particular cause.

___

GIBRALTAR — Punitive measures against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine have spread to a tiny speck of territory on Spain’s southern tip, with Gibraltar’s government taking steps against Russia Today television.

Gibraltar on Friday announced it was suspending the Russian state broadcaster for spreading “disinformation.” It also revoked a visa waiver program for Russian citizens.

The office for Chief Minister Fabian Picardo described Russia Today as a “mouthpiece for the Kremlin” that “will become a dangerous source of disinformation that Gibraltar cannot accept on its networks.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s Ministry of Defense says the bulk of Russian forces advancing on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv are more than 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the center of the city.

The ministry said it continues to monitor “sporadic clashes’’ between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the northern suburbs of the capital.

The intelligence update, delivered via Twitter , also said that armored units were forced to open a new route toward Kyiv after failing to capture Chernihiv, a city northeast of the capital near the Belarusian border.

___

BRUSSELS — Europe’s foremost human rights organization has suspended Russia because of its invasion of Ukraine, though it remains a member.

The 47-nation Council of Europe announced Friday that Russia was suspended with “immediate effect” from the Committee of Ministers and the parliamentary assembly “as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed attack on Ukraine.”

The Strasbourg-based organization said Russia remained a member and continued to be bound to the relevant human rights conventions.

“Suspension is not a final measure but a temporary one, leaving channels of communication open,” a statement said.

___

VIENNA — The International Atomic Energy Agency says the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant reported higher-than-usual radiation levels after being taken over by Russian forces invading Ukraine.

But it said Friday that current radiation levels do not pose a threat to the public.

Ukraine’s regulatory authority previously said that increased radiation levels may be due to military vehicles stirring up soil that remains contaminated from the accident in 1986, still known as the worst nuclear disaster in history.

But the measures are “within the operational range measured in the Exclusion Zone since it was established,” according to the IAEA .

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone is a 2,600-square-kilometer (1,000-square-mile) area of forest lying between the Belarus-Ukraine border and the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.

Russian forces took control over the site Thursday after a fierce battle with Ukrainian national guards protecting the plant.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says prospects for possible peace talks between Russia and Ukraine look uncertain due to apparent differences over a venue.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials in Minsk, Belarus, where President Alexander Lukashenko runs a pro-Russian government.

That agreement came in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy ’s offer earlier in the day to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Peskov told reporters that after the parties discussed Minsk as a possible venue, Ukrainian officials changed course and said they were unwilling to travel to Minsk and would prefer to meet in NATO member Poland. They then halted further communication, Peskov said.

Putin has claimed that the western refusal to heed Russia's demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order an invasion of the neighboring country.

___

PRAGUE -- The Czech Republic’s transport minister says his country has banned all Russian airlines from Czech airports, in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Martin Kupka said Friday the ban covers all regular flights between Prague and Moscow and Prague and St. Petersburg, as well as charter flights.

Russian planes will also be banned from landing at the western Czech spa town of Karlovy Vary, a popular destination for Russian tourists. The measure becomes affective at midnight.

Additionally, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said his country will stop issuing visas for Russian citizens and will urge other European Union countries to do the same.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Major retail chains in Lithuania started to remove Russian and Belarusian products from shelves, a move joined by online shops and widely applauded by the public as a protest against Moscow’s decision to invade Ukraine.

Maxima LT , the largest chain in the Baltic nations, said Friday the Russian goods it sells are mainly alcohol, dried products and candy, amounting to millions of euros (dollars) in sales.

Other retailers like drug stores and home suppliers made similar announcements. The Lithuanian postal service said it will not be distributing any more Russian periodicals.

International companies such as IKEA are facing pressure to remove Russian-made goods from sale in the small Baltic country, which fears Russian aggression.

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin has hailed his troops for their courage as they press their offensive across Ukraine and bear down on Kyiv.

Speaking during Friday’s meeting of his Security Council, Putin claimed that most Ukrainian military units are reluctant to engage Russian forces.

He said the units offering resistance are mostly volunteer battalions made up of right-wing Ukrainian nationalists.

He offered no evidence for his claims, which could not be independently verified.

Echoing an earlier Russian military statement, Putin accused Ukrainian forces of deploying heavy weapons in urban areas in several big cities, including Kyiv and Kharkiv, to use civilians as shields.

The Russian president urged the Ukrainian military to end their resistance and turn on their leaders.

___

WARSAW, Poland - European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is in Warsaw for urgent talks with NATO ’s nine eastern flank members on how to enhance the region’s security, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The participants were also due to remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

Poland’s President Andrzej Duda , hosting the talks between the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine, in his opening speech said that “demons of a great war, unseen since 1945” have returned to Europe.

NATO ’s eastern flank members fear Moscow could also target them.

___

FORT STEWART, Ga. — The U.S. Army says 3,800 soldiers from Fort Stewart, Georgia, are among additional forces deploying to Europe following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Troops from the Army post southwest of Savannah, Georgia, “will deploy to reassure NATO allies, deter further aggression against NATO member states and train with host-nation forces,” Fort Stewart commanders said in a statement late Thursday.

Fort Stewart is home to the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division, which saw multiple combat deployments during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of the 3rd Infantry soldiers heading to Europe are assigned to the division’s 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team.

“The Raider Brigade is trained and equipped to deter aggression and to reassure and defend our allies,” Col. Pete Moon, the 1st Brigade’s commander, said in prepared statement.

The Georgia-based soldiers appear to be among 7,000 additional U.S. forces deploying to Germany to bolster NATO following the invasion of Ukraine. President Joe Biden ordered the deployments Thursday.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Chinese President Xi Jinping he’s ready to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials.

The Kremlin said in its readout of Friday’s call that Xi underlined that he “views the Russian leadership’s action in the crisis situation with respect.”

In a reference to new Western sanctions against Russia over its invasion in Ukraine, the Kremlin noted that Putin and Xi agreed “it’s inadmissible to use illegitimate sanctions for achieving selfish goals of certain countries.”

Chinese state TV reported that Xi emphasized that China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations.”

___

NEW DELHI — Dozens of parents, relatives and friends of Indian students stranded in Ukraine held a demonstration near the Russian Embassy in New Delhi to demand the students' immediate evacuation.

Police barricaded the roads leading to the embassy on Friday and asked the protesters to meet Indian Foreign Ministry officials to discuss the repatriation of nearly 16,000 Indians, including students.

Some of the demonstrators held video conferencing calls with some of those stuck in metro trains and bomb shelters in Kyiv.

``We are running low on food and water in a crowded bunker,” one of the callers in Ukraine said.

Indian Embassy officials are now traveling to border areas of Ukraine touching Poland, Romania Slovakia and Hungary to facilitate the exit of Indian nationals so that they can be evacuated to India, said foreign ministy official Harsh Vardhan Shringla.

___

BRUSSELS — Germany’s foreign minister said Friday that the European Union will take in all people fleeing Ukraine due to the current conflict.

“We need to do everything to immediately take in the people who are now fleeing bombs, fleeing tanks, that’s also what we’ve been preparing for in recent weeks,” Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters in Brussels.

“We tried everything so this day wouldn’t come,” she said. “And it came because the Russian president chose it, opted for war and against human lives.”

“That’s why we will take in all of the people who are fleeing now,” Baerbock said. “We will bring the people from Ukraine to safety.”

___

BUCHAREST, Romania — Moldova’s national naval agency says a ship in “neutral waters” of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.

The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.

“A fire broke out onboard the ship; the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed,” the agency said in a statement. “The ship’s crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets.”

The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.

Rescue operations were carried out by Ukrainian authorities, the Moldovan agency said.

___

LONDON — An expert in international trade says he thinks world leaders are reluctant to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions because it is the “nuclear option” of sanctions.

Disconnecting Russia from SWIFT to try to force President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine would have major economic costs for western countries, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy.

Lee-Makiyama told the BBC that if Russia were cut off for foreign payments for its gas and oi,l it would quickly start expropriating the 300 billion euros EU investors have plowed into the country.

“It’s a nuclear option that it’s going to basically exterminate yourself and your enemy,” he said.

World leaders, who have so far ruled out military intervention in Ukraine, have few good options for deterring Putin because he knows they fear a direct confrontation with Russia, Lee-Makiyama said.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russia is ready to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send the delegation in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy 's offer to discuss a non-aligned status for Ukraine.

That indicates Zelenskyy would be willing to negotiate dropping his country’s bid to join NATO , as Russia has demanded.

Before the invasion, the West had rejected the demand. Putin claimed the refusal to discuss keeping Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order a military action in Ukraine to “demilitarize” it.

___

BANGKOK — Myanmar’s ruling military council offered its support Friday for Russia’s attack on Ukraine, while the shadow government leading opposition to army rule condemned Moscow’s action.

A statement by the spokesman for Myanmar’s military government said Russia acted correctly to perpetuate its “sovereignty.”

A text message to Myanmar journalists from Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun also said the invasion demonstrated Russia’s position as a “world power” helping to keep global relations in balance.

Myanmar’s military rulers face armed domestic opposition, and like Russia’s leaders now, are the target of strong sanctions from Western governments seeking a return to democratic rule.

Myanmar’s National Unity Government, established by lawmakers prevented from taking their seats when the army seized power in February last year, deplored Moscow’s action.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania — Lithuania's Radio and Television Commission has temporarily suspended the operation of six Russian-language TV channels for their alleged incitement to war and propaganda.

The six TV channels were taken off the air Friday

Planeta RTR, Rossijya 24, Belarus 24, NTV Mir, RTR Planeta and Rossiya 24 were suspended for five years, and PBK and TVCI for three years, commission Vice Chairman Ricardas Slapsys told the Baltic News Service.

Lithuania, the most southern of the three Baltic nations, borders Russia’s Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south.

Latvia banned several Russian television channels had their right to broadcast in Latvia suspended Thursday for several years.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has taken control of an airport just outside Kyiv, as Kremlin forces bear down on the Ukrainian capital.

The claim could not be independently verified.

Taking possession of the airport in Hostomel, which has a long runway allowing the landing of heavy-lift transport planes, would mean Russia can airlift troops directly to Kyiv’s outskirts.

Hostomel is just 7 kilometers (4 miles) northwest of the city.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel and killed over 200 troops belonging to Ukraine's special forces.

Konashenkov claimed that Russian troops suffered no casualties. That contradicts Ukrainian claims that Russian troops sustained heavy casualties in the fighting there.

___

BERLIN — Germany’s Defense Ministry has confirmed media reports that it is deploying additional military assets to NATO ’s eastern flank.

German weekly Der Spiegel reported that the deployments included 150 soldiers and about a dozen Boxer armored fighting vehicles, two ships and anti-missile systems.

Ministry spokesman Christian Thiels declined to say Friday exactly how many soldiers were being deployed. But he confirmed that a navy corvette would leave Saturday for patrols in the Baltic while a frigate will be deployed in the Mediterranean, both under NATO command.

Germany is also assessing whether to deploy Patriot anti-missile systems to an eastern European NATO country, Thiels said.

Decisions on deploying further troops could be expected soon, he added.

___

BEIJING — Chinese state TV says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping , that Moscow is willing to negotiate with Ukraine, even as Moscow's forces invade its neighbor.

The report Friday followed a Kremlin announcement that Putin’s government was considering an offer by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to negotiate non-aligned status for his country.

Putin said Moscow “is willing to conduct high-level negotiations with the Ukrainian side,” China Central Television reported on its website.

It gave no indication whether Putin said he was responding to Zelenskyy’s offer or gave any details of what the two sides might negotiate.

Russia complains that the United States and its allies ignored Moscow’s “legitimate security concerns” by expanding the NATO military alliance eastward, closer to Russia’s borders.

Xi said China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations,” CCTV said.

___

ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey’s foreign minister says officials are still assessing a request by Ukraine for Turkey to close to Russian shipping the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea.

Mevlut Cavusoglu warned, however, that under a 1936 convention Ankara may not be able to deny total access to the Russian vessels.

Ukraine on Thursday formally asked Turkey to close the Turkish Straits to Russian warships in line with the Montreux Convention which allows Turkey to restrict the passage of belligerent countries’ warships during times of war. The convention stipulates however, that warships belonging to Black Sea coastal countries can return to their bases.

“If there is a demand for the ships of the warring countries to return to their bases, then (passage) must be allowed,” Cavusoglu was quoted as telling Hurriyet newspaper in an interview.

The minister said Turkish experts were assessing if the current situation amounted to "a state of war.”

___

BERLIN — Germany’s president is appealing to Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop the madness of this war now.”

President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin on Friday said that “we don’t want enmity with the Russian people, quite the contrary, but this wrongdoing cannot go without a clear answer.”

Steinmeier, whose post is largely ceremonial but holds moral authority, said that Germany will do its part in deterring Putin from using force against its NATO allies.

The president, who served twice as Germany’s foreign minister, said that Putin “should not underestimate the strength of democracies” and Germans shouldn’t either.

He said it’s good that people are going out to demonstrate, adding: “The Russian president should not believe for a second that people in Germany and Europe simply accept this brutal violence.”

___

VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.

Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of feeling about Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Vatican officials said they knew of no such previous papal initiative.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted “clearly to express his concern about the war.” Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.

Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.

But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.

___

GENEVA — The U.N . human rights office says it is receiving increasing reports of civilian casualties in Ukraine in the wake of Russia’s military invasion.

Spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani of the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights says its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties. They include 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.

She cautioned Friday that the numbers are “very likely to be an underestimate.”

Shamdasani also said the rights office was “disturbed by the multiple arbitrary arrests” of demonstrators in Russia who on Thursday protested against the conflict.

“We understand more than 1,800 protesters were arrested,” she said, before adding that it was unclear how many might have been released already.

Meanwhile, spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo of the U.N. refugee agency , UNHCR , said its latest update had that more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine. She said the agency’s planning figures anticipated that “up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.”

___

LONDON — Latvia’s defense minister is criticizing European nations for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network and refusing to provide weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.

Artis Pabriks ’ comments came after the U.S. and European Union stopped short of blocking Russia’s access to the SWIFT payments system when they announced a new round of sanctions late Thursday.

Pabriks also chided fellow EU nations that have refused to provide “lethal aid” to Ukraine, saying only the U.K., Greece, Poland and the Baltic states had done so.

In an interview with the BBC on Friday, Pabriks suggested that many European leaders don’t want to take these steps because they would cause economic hardship for their own countries.

“If you are really not ready yourself to spill blood, at least spill money now,’’ he said. “Do it now, because if you lose Ukraine all European geopolitics will change. … There will be much more pressure on Poland, much more pressure on the Baltics.’’

The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia fear they could be the Kremlin’s next target.

___

DAMASCUS, Syria — Syrian President Bashar Assad is praising Russia’s military incursion into Ukraine and denouncing what he calls western “hysteria” surrounding it.

Assad spoke by phone Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin .

“What is happening today is a correction of history and a restoration of balance which was lost in the world after the breakup of the Soviet Union,” Assad said, according to state-run news agency SANA .

He said confronting NATO expansionism is Russia’s right.

Russia is a main backer of Assad’s government and its military intervention in 2015 in the country’s civil war helped tip the balance of power in his favor.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says it will analyze the Ukrainian president’s offer to discuss a non-aligned status for his country, as a Russian military invasion pushes closer to Kyiv.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he was ready to hold talks on the issue.

Asked about Zelenskyy’s offer, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday described it as “a move in a positive direction.”

He said in a conference call with reporters that “we paid attention to that, and now we need to analyze it.”

But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Zelenskyy “is simply lying” when he offers to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Lavrov said at a briefing that Zelenskyy “missed the opportunity” to discuss a neutral status for Ukraine when Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed it.

Putin says the West left him no option but to invade when it rejected Moscow’s demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO .

___

BRUSSELS — A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: “Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.”

Michel announced the move after a call with Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy .

Michel said Kyiv “is under continued attack by Russian forces” and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary has extended temporary legal protection to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion, as countries in eastern Europe prepare for the arrival of refugees at their borders.

Hungary, which borders Ukraine to the west, has in the past taken a firm stance against all forms of immigration. It has controversially refused to accept refugees and asylum seekers from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

But in a decree published late Thursday, Hungary’s government announced that all Ukrainian citizens arriving from Ukraine, and all third-country nationals legally residing there, would be entitled to protection.

The section applying to third-country nationals makes it possible for non-Ukrainians — for example, Belarussian refugees living in Ukraine — to receive protection in the European Union .

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that Hungary will play no part in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but that it would accept refugees arriving at its borders.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has expressed his solidarity with Ukraine in telephone call with the country’s leader.

Johnson’s Downing Street office said Friday that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered an update on Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes.

“The prime minister assured President Zelenskyy that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing,’’ Johnson’s office said in a statement. “He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia’s campaign of violence and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.’’

___

BERLIN — The German government says it has suspended the granting of export credit and investment guarantees for business with Russia.

The Economy Ministry said Friday that the granting of new export credit guarantees and investment guarantees for Russia was suspended on Thursday.

The so-called Hermes credit export guarantees protect German companies from losses when exports aren’t paid for. Investment guarantees are granted by the German government to protect direct investments by German companies from political risk in the countries where they are made.

The Economy Ministry said that new export credit guarantees to the tune of 1.49 billion euros ($1.67 billion) were granted last year for business with Russia. New investment guarantees came in at a fraction of that amount, at 3.75 million euros ($4.2 million).

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland’s Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the country’s land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began.

Before that, there were some 12,000 average daily entries from Ukraine into European Union and NATO member Poland, through land, sea and airport checkpoints, according to Border Guard statistics.

Poland has lifted the requirement of COVID-19 quarantine or vaccination certificates for refugees from Ukraine. A number of reception centers with camp beds, soup kitchens and medical care have been organized in locations close to the border with Ukraine.

___

BEIJING — China is holding back from labeling Russia’s attack on Ukraine an invasion.

At the same time, it is upholding the sanctity of territorial sovereignty, in a nod to its own insistence that Taiwan is part of China.

“The sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and maintained,” China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Friday.

“At the same time, we also see that the issue of Ukraine has its own complex and special historical merits, and we understand Russia’s legitimate concerns on security issues,” he added.

Wang did not answer questions about whether China would recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, in Ukrainian territory claimed by Russia, as independent states.

___

MOSCOW — Russia’s civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British government ’s ban on Aeroflot flights.

Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.

It said the measure was taken in response to the “unfriendly decisions” by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has destroyed 118 Ukrainian military assets since the beginning of its assault on its neighbor and as it pushes into the outskirts of Kyiv.

The claim could not be independently verified and was not confirmed by Ukraine amid a flurry of claims and counterclaims by each side.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that among the targets were 11 Ukrainian air bases, 13 command facilities, 36 air defense radars, 14 air defense missile systems, 5 warplanes, 18 tanks and warships.

However, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace rejected Russian claims of success on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, saying it had “failed to deliver” on its day one objectives.

Wallace told Sky News that the Western assessment is that Russia had failed to take its major objectives and is behind on its timetable for advance.

“They’ve lost over 450 personnel,’’ he said.

___

BERLIN — Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has condemned Russia’s attack on Ukraine, calling it “a deep cut in European history after the end of the Cold War.”

Germany’s dpa news agency quoted Merkel saying Friday that there was “no justification for this blatant attack of international law. I condemn it in the sharpest possible manner.”

Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and speaks Russian, was heavily engaged in negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her 16 years in office, which ended in December.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s nuclear energy regulatory agency says that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, after it was seized by the Russian military.

The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said Friday that higher gamma radiation levels have been detected in the Chernobyl zone, but didn’t provide details of the increase.

It attributed the rise to a “disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air.”

Ukrainian authorities said that Russia took the plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle Thursday.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible “provocations.” He insisted that radiation levels in the area have remained normal.

The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan warned “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards, Khan said in a statement Friday.

Khan adds that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Kyiv mayor Vitaly Klitschko said at least three people were injured when a rocket hit a multi-story apartment building in Ukraine's capital on Friday, starting a fire.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the Russian military's claim it is not targeting civilian areas is “a lie.” He said that military and civilian areas in Ukraine are both being hit by Russian attacks.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city; from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014; and from Belarus to the north.

___

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that France and its European allies have decided to “inflict very severe blows on Moscow,” further sanctioning individuals and targeting finance, energy and other sectors. The legal texts for the sanctions will be finalized and submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers later Friday.

Macron also said the EU has decided on economic aid for Ukraine in the amount of 1.5 billion euros ($1.68 billion).

The French president also called the Belorussian government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine, and said it will also be targeted.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — As Russian troops continued pressing their offensive Friday, intense fighting also raged in the country’s east.

Russian troops entered the city of Sumy near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east. The regional governor, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said Ukrainian forces fought Russian troops in the city overnight, but other Russian convoys kept rolling west toward the Ukrainian capital.

“Military vehicles from Sumy are moving toward Kyiv,” Zhivitsky said. “Much equipment has passed through and is heading directly to the west.”

Zhivitsky added that another northeastern city, Konotop, was also sieged. He urged residents of the region to fight the Russian forces.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan issued a statement Friday on Twitter while on a visit to Bangladesh, where he is investigating crimes against Myanmar’s Rohingya minority.

Khan said he alerted “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards," Khan added.

He said that “any person who commits such crimes, including by ordering, inciting or contributing in another manner to the commission of these crimes may be liable to prosecution before the Court.”

Khan added that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine [https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

The Canadian Press

文件 CPR0000020220225ei2p00cqd


The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in...
12975 字
2022 年 2 月 28 日 21:31 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "The bulk of Putin's ground forces remain more than 30km to the north of Kyiv their advance having been slowed by Ukrainian forces defending Hostomel airfield, a key Russian objective for day one of the conflict.

"Heavy fighting continues around Chernihiv and Kharkiv however both cities remain under Ukrainian control.

"Logistical failures and staunch Ukrainian resistance continue to frustrate the Russian advance.

"Despite continued attempts to supress details of the conflict from the Russian population, the Russian Armed Forces has for the first time been forced to acknowledge suffering casualties."

Russian President Vladimir Putin's nuclear warning is a "big attempt to distract away from his troubles in Ukraine", the Defence Secretary has said.

Ben Wallace did not rule out Mr Putin launching a nuclear attack, and was asked on Sky News whether the Russian leader was "crazy enough" to start a nuclear conflict.

Mr Wallace told Sky News: "I think he has certainly done a lot of irrational things recently."

He added: "I think I'm not going to speculate on what he would or wouldn't do, but that's why we all keep our deterrents at a state of readiness in the West."

Ben Wallace said there were "better ways" to help Ukraine than travelling to join the fighting, for those in the UK without military experience.

The Defence Secretary was asked about comments made by Foreign Secretary Liz Truss on Sunday, where she supported anyone who wished to travel to the country to help fight the Russian invaders.

Mr Wallace told Sky News Ms Truss was right that it was a "just cause", but he said: "If you're keen to help and you're a United Kingdom citizen, come and join our armed forces."

He said: "Look, there are people who will go... I think what I would say is unless you are properly trained, unless you are a - you know - experienced member of an armed forces, I think there are better ways for you to contribute to the security of Ukraine."

The Treasury said the UK would strengthen sanctions by targeting Russia's central bank.

The Government will "take all necessary steps to bring into effect restrictions to prohibit any UK natural or legal persons from undertaking financial transactions involving the (Russian central bank), the Russian National Wealth Fund, and the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation", the Treasury said.

Chancellor Rishi Sunak said: "These measures demonstrate our determination to apply severe economic sanctions in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"We are announcing this action in rapid co-ordination with our US and European allies to move in lockstep once more with our international partners, to demonstrate our steadfast resolve in imposing the highest costs on Russia and to cut her off from the international financial system so long as this conflict persists."

Ben Wallace said the announcements about UK visas already made for Ukrainians were only "a first step".

"We're absolutely looking at all the different range of options we can apply to welcome Ukrainians in need," the Defence Secretary told Sky News.

"The first step is to make sure that Ukrainians who have family here - either settled or dual nationals - that they can come and join them.

"But the second step we will look at (is) about what we do with the refugee flows across the board."

He said the Government would "make decisions in the near future".

Russian forces in Ukraine are "strung out" and "behind schedule", the Defence Secretary has said.

Ben Wallace told Times Radio that President Putin "convinced himself that all these people would somehow welcome them with Russian flags and thank them for being great liberators".

But instead the Ukrainian resistance had made these plans "go awry".

Ben Wallace defended the funding given to British armed forces.

The Defence Secretary said there was confusion between a reduction in the number of soldiers, and cuts in defence overall.

He told Times Radio: "We've got the biggest defence spending increase since the Cold War."

Mr Wallace said the priorities of the armed forces reflected the threats present.

The Russian offensive in Ukraine is likely to become "more violent", the Defence Secretary said.

Ben Wallace told BBC Breakfast that although the Ukrainians were putting up "a very strong fight" the reality was they were going up against "the overwhelming scale of the Russian Federation Army".

He said of Russia: "They are behind schedule, they are taking significant casualties and they are feeling public rejection in parts of the Russian system itself; we've seen many protests.

"But the Russian handbook is to then get more violent and commit more forces because fundamentally in the Russian, sort of, doctrine the lives of their own soldiers matter much less than in other armed forces.

"So we have to brace ourselves for what may come next, which could be ruthless, indiscriminate bombing of cities and propelling forward of soldiers and high casualty levels, and that's going to be horrific."

Vladimir Putin's nuclear warning is part of a "battle of rhetoric", the Defence Secretary said.

Ben Wallace told BBC Breakfast that he understood the concerns about the warning made by the Russian leader, and revealed his own 12-year-old son called him worried about the step.

But he said: "We don't see or recognise in the sort of phrase or the status he described as anything that is a change to what they have currently as their nuclear posture.

"This is predominantly about Putin putting it on the table just to remind people, remind the world, that he has a deterrent."

He added: "We will not do anything to escalate in that area, we will not do anything to feed any miscalculation, we take it very, very seriously.

"But at the moment this is a battle of rhetoric that President Putin is deploying, and we just have to make sure we manage it properly."

Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat said minister had indicated the UK is "likely" to follow the EU in taking in Ukrainian refugees for up to three years.

The Conservative MP said he had talked with members of Government who were "hopeful" the policy on taking in Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion would be reviewed within the coming days.

Asked whether the UK Government had gone far enough in offering sanctuary to refugees, Mr Tugendhat told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I've been speaking to ministers this morning and I can tell you there are many who are hopeful that this will be something that's reviewed in the coming days."

Asked about the EU's announcement that member countries would grant asylum to Ukrainian refugees for up to three years, Mr Tugendhat said: "I suspect that's likely to be where we end up to be honest."

"I think there's a definite opportunity to be generous," he added.

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he does not "want to see British people killed any more than I want to see Ukrainians" as he urged people in the UK not to join the fighting.

Mr Wallace, who served in the Scots Guards, said although he would "always fight for my country", he would not head to Ukraine as a private citizen now to take part in the conflict.

He joked that he would "probably be reduced by now to be in charge of, at my age, the Home Guard or something".

But he said the situation in Ukraine was "very dangerous" and that citizens should find other ways to support the invaded country.

Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat has said Russia sees battlefield nuclear weapons as simply "a bigger bang" and could give a military order to use them.

The Conservative MP told the BBC's Radio 4 Today programme: "The Russian military doctrine doesn't work in the same way as the Nato military doctrine. They do assume that they may use battlefield nuclear weapons and they see them as just a, if you'll excuse the expression, a bigger bang. They don't treat fallout in the same way we do."

He added that although the situation was "concerning," it was not unprecedented for Russia to threaten nuclear action.

"That said, Russia has frequently threatened nuclear deployments in the past," he said.

"This is not unusual but at the same time it is concerning and it is not impossible a Russian military order to use battlefield nuclear weapons could be given."

Shares in BP slumped sharply after the markets opened lower again in London.

The oil giant initially dropped by as much as 7%, before moving back to roughly 4% lower at 363p per share following its decision to sell its nearly 20% stake in Russian oil business Rosneft.

The FTSE 100 moved 1.02% - or 79.3 points - lower to 7,412.4 points shortly after the markets opened.

Ireland's Foreign Affairs Minister has said the country will send around nine million euros' worth of non-lethal equipment to Ukraine as part of an EU fund.

"Our money will be used for non-lethal weapons - things like helmets, protection vests, medical kits, fuel," Simon Coveney told RTE radio.

"I think the European Union is right to intervene and support the Ukrainian military who are under enormous pressure at the moment.

"I think if the European Union can't take a stand, well, then I think we have to question the moral substance of the European Union."

Mr Coveney also indicated that Ireland might move to expel some Russian diplomats, but ruled out expelling the ambassador.

"The expulsion of diplomats or Russian staff in embassies is quite a significant thing to do. It sends a very strong signal and Russia will respond in kind.

"I think it's likely that something will happen in that space, but we do need to be targeted. We need to bear in mind the interests of Irish citizens, both in Russia and across Ukraine."

Ben Wallace said he has "no doubt" that Britain will do more to help Ukrainian refugees.

The Defence Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the UK has a "very generous" track record in helping those in need of aid.

"I think what I would say is, you know, our track record so far, both with Afghans and (the) Arap scheme, and indeed with the Hong Kong nationals who were suffering persecution, has been actually very generous," he said.

"So there's no reason to doubt we won't continue on that path."

He added that it is not yet clear whether the European Union's approach will be to support refugees on the border, with the hope they will be able to return to Ukraine soon, but discussions are continuing.

Russia should be banned from all international sporting and cultural events, shadow culture secretary Lucy Powell has said.

The Labour MP told Sky News: "We need to send a clear and categoric message that Russia from now on will be fully excluded, fully boycotted from all international sporting and cultural events."

Sports bodies such as Uefa and "to some degree" Fifa have started to make "moves in the right direction" to stop Russia's involvement, but a blanket ban is needed "without delay", she said.

With forthcoming competitions such as the World Cup and the European Women's Football Championship, "it shouldn't be a case that Russia can still take part albeit without displaying its country's name", she added.

Ms Powell told the programme: "We now need to see a full and clear categoric signal so that (President Vladimir) Putin, who takes these occasions very seriously when he is hosting or participating in these events, he needs to feel the full force of that where it hurts, and it will send a strong signal to the Russian people as well that they need to stand up to Putin because they will no longer be able to take pride in their country taking part in such events."

She added that Russia is still hosting international volleyball and swimming competitions later this year.

The UK needs a "radical rethink" of its foreign and defence policy following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, shadow culture secretary Lucy Powell has said.

Describing the current situation as "one of the most terrifying eras of my lifetime", she told Sky News: "We didn't ever think, as a generation, that we would see such a breach of those international norms we have been living with for decades with an illegal invasion of a European country on our doorstep by Russia - that is going to require a radical rethink in terms of our public policy, foreign policy and defence policy and so on.

"I think the UK, Nato, the West - we are really waking up to that new threat.

"We have a united agenda here now. We have seen tough action but it could be tougher still.

"We want the UK Government and we want other governments to go further when it comes to those economic sanctions tackling the oligarchs that take safe haven in our country, when it comes to things like sporting and cultural sanctions, and also when it comes to increasing that military aid directly into Ukraine so the Ukrainian people can defend themselves."

Life has been "a rollercoaster" over the past few weeks, according to a UK expat who is now in Poland after deciding it was too dangerous to stay with his family in Kyiv.

Stuart McKenzie told Sky News he initially wanted to stay and "support Ukraine" but decided with his wife that "if there was any danger to our children - that is the point we would have to leave the city".

They left at 4.30am and could hear "bombs dropping in Kyiv" as they went.

Mr McKenzie, who said the Polish have been "fantastic and very flexible" in its support of the Ukrainian people, told the programme: "Everything is so fluid. We do not have any medium or long-term goals - it is just all about survival. It is about getting the people we love out of the country.

"There was a tsunami of refugees at the border right now desperate to get out. It is getting more and more difficult every hour.

"People cannot afford to keep their cars warm because they can't afford to spend the fuel to turn on the engines and to do that for three or four nights in a row with children and elderly.

"My brother has seen someone who has passed away because they were elderly and just died of cold. It is a terrible situation."

Britain is "on the back foot" in helping Ukraine's refugees and "the Government just needs to step up and support people who are fleeing war and terror," the chairwoman of the Public Accounts Committee has said.

Meg Hiller, the Labour MP for Hackney South and Shoreditch, told Sky News: "I think the EU has set the tone here and Britain is on the back foot.

"Britain have done the same with Afghanistan in making it hard for family members to join.

"It needs to understand that family members are one of the easiest groups to get into the country, with support here already embedded.

"People have got homes, jobs and money to support their family members but it could go much further," Dame Meg added.

"It needs to follow what the EU is doing and we hope, of course, that these refugees will only be temporarily here.

"They want to go back to Ukraine once we hope this conflict is over. In the meantime, the Government just needs to step up and support people who are fleeing war and terror."

(Corrected repetition, amends spelling of surname in par 2. First ran at 1154)

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has claimed that Vladimir Putin placed nuclear deterrence forces on high alert after statements from Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.

According to the Interfax news agency, Mr Peskov told a press briefing: "Statements were made by various representatives at various levels on possible altercations or even collisions and clashes between Nato and Russia.

"We believe that such statements are absolutely unacceptable.

"I would not call the authors of these statements by name, although it was the British foreign minister."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is due to make a statement to MPs on sanctions at 3.30pm, the House of Commons has said.

The Irish premier has cast doubt on the idea that Ukraine may be able to join the EU with immediate effect.

Speaking in Dublin, Micheal Martin said: "I don't know whether it can be done immediately.

"But I certainly would be a proponent and supporter of accelerating it and making it very clear that they can become members of the European Union.

"I've always favoured the acceleration of the European perspective for countries in our neighbourhood."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng will also make a statement on the economic crime measures, the Commons said.

The Taoiseach has said that the decision by Ireland to fund items such as PPE, medical equipment and supplies for Ukraine, as part of a wider EU package, does not undermine the country's longstanding military neutrality.

"Our contribution to the non-lethal strand of that peace facility does not undermine our military neutrality," Micheal Martin told reporters in Dublin.

"We are not politically neutral, and have never been politically neutral in the sense that we uphold democratic values and democratic principles."

An ally of Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has struck back at the Kremlin's claims her remarks played a role in Vladimir Putin ordering Russia's nuclear deterrent on high alert.

"Nothing Liz has said warrants that sort of escalation. It's clearly designed to distract from the situation on the ground in Ukraine," the ally said.

"The Foreign Secretary has always talked about Nato in the context of it being a defensive alliance. Her point is that we stand by Article 5, and that we must do everything we can to help Ukraine short of putting boots on the ground.

"We take it very seriously and want to keep the situation calm."

Boris Johnson will travel to Poland and Estonia for meetings with his counterparts and Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg on Tuesday, Downing Street has said.

Downing Street has said the sweeping sanctions brought in over Russia's invasion of Ukraine are designed to "bring down the Putin regime".

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister's view is that Putin's regime, and Putin, must be treated like a pariah state and businesses should think very carefully if they are still continuing to do anything that props up the Putin regime.

"The United Kingdom, the Prime Minister, is very clear that we do not want to unnecessarily inflict damage on the Russian people, many of whom are bravely taking to the streets to protest this violence, this invasion.

"But the measures we're introducing, that large parts of the world are introducing, are to bring down the Putin regime, and we think anyone who is actively seeking to support any elements of the Putin regime should think very carefully."

Pressed whether the measures are intended and provoking a regime change, he said: "Yes, the sanctions we've introduced, the widespread sanctions, aim to inflict financial pain on Putin and his regime to stymie the Russia war machine as it attempts to subjugate a democratic European country."

Downing Street has effectively contradicted Foreign Secretary Liz Truss after she said she would support Britons who chose to help Ukrainian troops fight Russia.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We think the best way we can help Ukraine right now is by ensuring Putin fails. There are a number of ways Brits can show their support for that, and the Ukrainian embassy in London is putting out information about how British can support.

"We fully recognise the strength of feeling about British people wanting to support the Ukrainians following the Russian invasion. There's advice up on travelling to Ukraine, we currently advise against travel to Ukraine."

Downing Street has said Priti Patel will say more on further actions to help Ukrainian refugees flee Ukraine.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We've set out further measures last night but we will be doing even more, with the Home Secretary expected to say a little more in the House later today.

"As the Prime Minister has said, we will go further than even what was announced yesterday, there will be further support as you would expect for those who are fleeing the violence."

Boris Johnson opened Cabinet by saying Vladimir Putin had made a "colossal mistake" believing his troops would be "garlanded with roses" by Ukrainians.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister said it is becoming clearer with each day that Putin had made a colossal mistake believing that the guns of his tanks would be garlanded with roses when instead the Ukrainian people had put up a fierce resistance in defence of their homeland.

"He said latest intelligence suggested Putin's advances had been hampered by logistical problems and the heroic efforts of the Ukrainian military who are inflicting significant casualties on Russian troops."

Media mogul Evgeny Lebedev has used The Evening Standard newspaper to appeal to Vladimir Putin to stop the invasion of Ukraine.

Writing in the newspaper, which he owns, the crossbench peer - addressing Mr Putin - said: "I plead with you to use today's negotiations to bring this terrible conflict in Ukraine to an end."

In a statement published alongside a photograph of a paramedic performing CPR on a girl injured by shelling, Lord Lebedev said: "On this page are the final minutes of a six-year-old child fatally injured by shells that struck her Mariupol apartment block on Sunday.

"She is still wearing her pink jacket as medics fight to save her. But it is too late. Other children, and other families, are suffering similar fates across Ukraine.

"As a Russian citizen I plead with you to stop Russians killing their Ukrainian brothers and sisters."

"As a British citizen I ask you to save Europe from war. As a Russian patriot I plead that you prevent any more young Russian soldiers from dying needlessly. As a citizen of the world I ask you to save the world from annihilation."

Adding to the account of the Cabinet meeting, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said of Mr Johnson: "He said Putin had also underestimated Western unity and the strength of the sanctions his action could lead to.

"The Prime Minister said Putin must fail in his attempts to subjugate Ukraine and the UK would continue its efforts in three main areas to achieve this: economically, diplomatically and militarily."

Mr Johnson will press for Russia to be cut out of the Swift international payment system "completely", with the spokesman adding: "Further sanctions on Russian businesses and individuals will be introduced shortly."

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Cabinet was updated by the chair of the Joint Intelligence Committee and the Chief of the Defence staff who "pointed to the discontent among many of the Russian people including an anti-war petition that has attracted around a million signatures".

Downing Street said Home Office minister Kevin Foster was right to delete his tweet suggesting the seasonal worker scheme was a route for Ukrainian people to flee war.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "I think that tweet was rightly deleted, I think the UK has a proud history of supporting those in need. We've done that with Afghanistan and elsewhere and we will continue to do that."

Not waiving visa requirements for people fleeing the Russian invasion in Ukraine risks being "embarrassing for the UK", Scotland's First Minister has said.

Nicola Sturgeon has voiced her support for allowing people into the country allowing for "the paperwork (to) be sorted out later on", and has now called on the Prime Minister to step in.

"I think the UK's current position on refuge for people fleeing from Ukraine is unacceptable and if it doesn't change and change substantially very soon, it risks - at a time when we should be building maximum unity - being embarrassing for the UK," she said during a visit to Aberdeen.

"I am calling on the Prime Minister, I am appealing to the Prime Minister to follow the example of Ireland, follow the example of the entire European Union and have a situation, effectively, where anyone from Ukraine who is seeking refuge in the UK is allowed entry to the UK with no visa requirements and the paperwork can be sorted later on.

"The position announced by the Prime Minister last night restricting that kind of approach not even just to family members of people already here but to immediate family members is woefully inadequate.

"It doesn't meet the moment, this is a time to step up and do everything we can to support Ukrainians and I hope we will see significant movement from the UK Government over the course of today."

Downing Street suggested law firms seeking to protect Russian oligarchs from sanctions could themselves be targeted with strict measures.

"We will certainly keep all options under review," the Prime Minister's official spokesman said.

"This is an incredibly serious situation and we want to take all possible steps to ratchet up the pressure on Putin and his regime to get him to step back from this path.

"Individuals or businesses that are seeking to facilitate that regime and Putin's actions, to continue down this path of violence, we think should step back from that as well."

The spokesman said it was "not helpful to name individual businesses" but "clearly I think it's important everyone thinks carefully about how they may be, even inadvertently, supporting a country or a regime which has invaded another democratic country".

Boris Johnson does not believe football's ruling body has gone far enough to sanction the Russian team.

Fifa stopped short of excluding Russia from the men's World Cup play-offs due to take place next month, instead ordering the team to play on neutral territory, behind closed doors and as the Football Union of Russia.

"The Prime Minister wants Fifa to take the strongest possible action on this and doesn't think their current measures go far enough," Mr Johnson's official spokesman said.

"I think anyone seeing the situation and the horrific scenes we see on the ground would expect a body like Fifa to do more."

The spokesman said Mr Johnson "wholeheartedly welcomes" the Football Association's confirmation that England will not play Russia.

"We do think that Russia should be cut out not just economically but culturally as well to further up the pressure on Putin."

No 10 said the Prime Minister's official spokesman "misspoke" when he said Western sanctions "are to bring down the Putin regime".

The spokesman went on to say: "We're not seeking anything in terms of regime change. What we're talking about here clearly is how we stop Russia seeking to subjugate a democratic country."

Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle, opening the sitting in the Commons, said: "Before we begin today's business, I wish to thank (Chris Bryant, Labour MP for Rhondda) for withdrawing his invitation to the Russian ambassador to address the APPG (all-party parliamentary group) on Russia.

"I was very uneasy about the visit and did not think it appropriate to invite a Russian official who had said only weeks before that there would be no invasion."

Sir Lindsay added MPs "stand in solidarity" with Ukraine and its people - and the country's flag has been raised at the Commons.

The One Nation Caucus of Tory MPs has written to Boris Johnson calling for him to do more to help Ukrainians fleeing the fighting.

Former Cabinet ministers Sir Robert Buckland, Jeremy Hunt and Matt Hancock were among senior MPs to put their names to the letter calling for a "flexible and pragmatic approach" to allow Ukrainians to seek temporary refuge in the UK.

The 38 MPs said: "We need to act now and we need to act decisively.

"We urge the UK Government to provide as much support as possible to our European partners who are currently the first safe havens for Ukrainian refugees - namely Poland, Moldova, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia.

"We also hope our ministers will seek a flexible and pragmatic approach to those Ukrainians wishing to seek temporary refuge in the UK until it is safe to return to their lives in their home country.

"It is clear that this is not another migration crisis; this is a crisis of war. This should not be business as usual, we need sincere and immediate support for the Ukrainian people.

"The United Kingdom cannot flag or fail, our message must be clear: Ukrainian victims of war seeking refuge are welcome."

Nicola Sturgeon has dismissed claims that Russia put its nuclear weapons on high alert because of comments by Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.

The Kremlin claimed that Vladimir Putin raised the alert level of Russia's nuclear deterrent after "absolutely unacceptable" remarks by Ms Truss.

Reacting to the claim, Scotland's First Minister said Mr Putin was solely responsible for the "despicable" threat.

Ms Sturgeon tweeted: "Whatever political disagreements any of us have with Liz Truss - and I have many deep differences with her - we should not fall for this transparent Russian attempt to divert.

"The only person responsible for Putin's despicable nuclear threat is Putin."

Boris Johnson spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Monday afternoon, committing to send more military support "in the coming hours and days".

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The President updated the Prime Minister on the Ukrainian resistance to the ongoing Russian invasion. The Prime Minister commended his bravery and that of the Ukrainian people.

"The leaders categorically condemned the barbaric airstrikes being carried out by Russia against innocent civilians, including children.

"The Prime Minister updated President Zelensky on UK military support being sent to Ukraine and committed to sending more in the coming hours and days."

The Government will aim to "learn from best practice" in immigration law after "recent days" in which the Republic of Ireland was able to easily offer asylum to Ukrainians fleeing war.

SNP MP Martin Docherty-Hughes (West Dunbartonshire) said: "It is often overlooked that this political stage shares a common travel area with our neighbours across the Irish Sea.

"I daresay from citizenship frameworks to asylum policy this Government has a lot of learn from Ireland about implementing humane and just policy for those coming to the UK.

"Can I ask the minister what steps their department is taking, if any, in recent days to learn from best practice seen in the Republic of Ireland in terms of their legislative frameworks for citizenship?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "We always look at the practices in other countries. I would point out things like our visitor route is more generous than the equivalent in the Republic of Ireland.

"Actually, I am meeting an Irish minister later today. But we are looking at how we can amend nationality law to make it slightly easier in terms of processes that we no longer need to look into people's past migration history when we have already recently done that."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster, when challenged in the Commons, did not apologise for a tweet suggesting the seasonal worker scheme was a route for Ukrainian people to flee war, as Labour hit out at Government "incompetence".

Shadow Home Office minister Stephen Kinnock said Labour supports the calls the Welsh and Scottish governments have made "to offer sanctuary to Ukrainians who are fleeing the horrors of war".

He said: "The UK Government's response on this matter has once again demonstrated the toxic combination of incompetence and indifference that are the hallmarks of this Home Secretary and her ministerial team."

He criticised Mr Foster's now-deleted tweet as "the modern-day equivalent of let them eat cake" and asked for him to "unconditionally apologise", and offer "swift, well-managed and safe sanctuary to these victims of Putin's barbarity who require our support".

Mr Foster did not directly respond to the request for an apology but said: "I'm interested to contrast those comments to what the Ukrainian ambassador said yesterday."

He said the Home Secretary will "shortly announce more" and added, "it was very useful to have a constructive conversation with the Scottish Government on Friday".

The SNP said the UK Government is "alone amongst our European allies in asking Ukrainians to jump through visa hoops to reach sanctuary here".

SNP home affairs spokesperson Stuart C McDonald said in the Commons: "The minister will have heard loud and clear during that call with Neil Gray on Friday that the Scottish Government fully supports replicating the European model and lifting visa requirements for Ukrainian nationals now.

"The UK Government is now alone amongst our European allies in asking Ukrainians to jump through visa hoops to reach sanctuary here.

"It is even more alone in legislating to criminalise, marginalise and impoverish those who seek asylum through its anti-refugee bill. Surely basic human decency requires an urgent rethink on both those counts?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster said the Home Secretary "will shortly say a bit more on what we're looking to do around Ukrainians".

He added: "One thing that would certainly help us be able to support more of those seeking asylum in this country is if 31 out of 32 local authority areas in Scotland weren't refusing to be a dispersal area, including his own."

Home secretary Priti Patel told MPs: "Putin's war on Ukraine is monstrous and unjustified."

She said: "Through this extension alone I can confirm that an additional 100,000 Ukrainians will be able to seek sanctuary in the UK, with access to work and public services.

"We are enabling Ukrainian nationals already in the UK, giving them the ability to switch free of charge into a points-based immigration route or through the family visa route.

"We are extending visas for (Ukraine) temporary workers in some sectors and they can now stay until at least December 2022."

Home secretary Priti Patel told MPs: "Our new route will continue to keep pace with the developing situation on the ground and so far has already supported hundreds of British nationals and their families resident in Ukraine to leave.

"The UK visas and immigration staff continue to work around the clock to assist them."

She added: "We are in direct contact with individuals and we've also lowered various requirements and salary thresholds so that people can be supported.

"Where family members of British nationals do not meet the usual eligibility criteria, but pass security checks, UK visas and immigration will give them the permission to enter the UK outside the rules for 12 months and is prioritising all applications.

"Giving British nationals and any person settled in the UK the ability to bring over their immediate Ukrainian family members."

Priti Patel said Ukraine has requested that the Russian government be suspended from its membership of Interpol, adding: "We'll be leading all international efforts to that effect."

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: "The Home Secretary has just said she is announcing a bespoke humanitarian route but it's extremely unclear from what she's said what the details actually are or who it will apply to."

Labour former minister Chris Bryant also told Home Office questions: "Will the Home Secretary publish her review into the tier one gold-plated visas? Will she suspend all tier one visas for people who have connections with the Putin regime?

"Will she also look into the veracity of the applications for British citizenship by Russian oligarchs who are connected with Putin?"

Ms Patel replied in the Commons: "I think (Mr Bryant) knows my view and position on this, and, of course, the answer is yes."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said that the situation is "fluid" but as of Monday President Vladimir Putin has not taken any major cities.

Updating the House on the United Kingdom's support for Ukraine in the face of Mr Putin's "pre-meditated, pre-planned and barbaric invasion", Ms Truss said: "Ukraine has suffered horrific attacks, missiles and air strikes who've torn through apartment blocks.

"Tanks have rolled into once peaceful cities, innocent people, including children who've lost their lives. The situation is fluid.

"But as of today Putin has not taken any major cities. Their advance has been slowed by Ukraine's fierce resistance."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion is "not proceeding to plan".

She said: "He expected to take cities quickly. He expected Ukraine to retreat and he expected the West to be divided.

"Instead, his forces were met by the heroic heroism of President Zelensky and the resolute determination of the Ukrainian people.

"He has been met by a united West, together with our friends around the world, and we have taken decisive action.

"Today we have acted with the US, the EU, Japan and Canada to cut Russia's central bank off from our markets. The rouble has fallen by over 40% as a result, as much as 250 billion dollars have been wiped off the Russian stock market and today their stock market is closed."

Telling the Commons she is "determined to go much, much further" with actions against Russia, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said she would sanction the country's largest bank with a new law.

Ms Truss told MPs: "Today I can inform the House I will be laying two new pieces of sanctions legalisation.

"The first introduces a set of new powers against Russia's financial sector. It includes powers to prevent Russian banks from clearing payments in sterling.

"With over 50% of Russian trade denominated in dollars or sterling, our co-ordinated action with the United States will damage Russia's ability to trade with the world.

"As soon as this legislation comes into force, we will apply it to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank."

The UK and Western allies will have to undergo "some economic hardship as a result of our sanctions", Liz Truss has said.

The Foreign Secretary told the Commons: "The days ahead are likely to prove tougher still. The UK and our allies will have to undergo some economic hardship as a result of our sanctions.

"But our hardships are nothing compared to those endured by the people of Ukraine.

"Casualty numbers are rising and over 300,000 people have already been displaced. This is a struggle for Ukraine's freedom and self-determination, but it is also a struggle for freedom and democracy everywhere. And for a survival of a Europe whole and free."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss confirmed she would sanction a further three Russian banks in light of the invasion of Ukraine.

"I will also be imposing a full asset freeze on three further banks," Ms Truss told the Commons, naming "Russia's national development bank" among the newly-sanctioned institutions.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said new legislation will isolate Russian companies from access to UK capital markets and ban exports to Russia across a range of "critical sectors".

She said in the Commons that new legislation "will prevent the Russian state from raising debt here. And it will isolate all Russian companies - that's over three million businesses - from accessing UK capital markets".

She said a second piece of legislation "will ban exports to Russia across a range of critical sectors. This includes high-end technological equipment" including marine and navigation equipment which "will blunt Russia's military industrial capabilities and act as a drag on Russia's economy for years to come".

Ms Truss said: "I appreciate the consequences of this step for British people and British businesses operating in Russia."

She said the Government will offer "advice and guidance" to affected UK businesses and consular staff will continue to support British nationals in Russia and Ukraine.

In an update to its travel advice, the Foreign Office website said: "The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to the whole of Russia due to the lack of available flight options to return to the UK, and the increased volatility in the Russian economy."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK will "keep ratcheting up our response" to Russia.

She said: "More legislation will follow in coming weeks in sanctioning Russian-occupied territories in the Donbas, extending more sanctions to Belarus, and limiting Russian deposits in UK banks.

"We will continue working through our hitlist of oligarchs, focusing on their houses, their yachts and every aspect of their lives. In addition, we will be introducing the Economic Crime Bill tomorrow."

She said: "This is all about flushing out the oligarch dirty money from the United Kingdom. We will continue work with our G7 allies to cut off the Russian economy and cut the free world's dependence on Russian gas. Depriving Putin of his key source of revenue."

She said the UK is "leading the diplomatic effort to ensure there is a chorus of condemnation against President Putin".

Ms Truss said: "Putin is isolated. No-one is willing to back his war of choice."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy said: "We have all been inspired by the gallant and tenacious actions of Ukrainians in defence of their country. This is true courage under fire."

He added: "We must not let our focus slip for even a second. We will continue to stand united with our allies and partners supporting Ukraine and opposing this outrageous campaign of aggression.

"Putin is not only facing a united West, he is facing a truly United Kingdom. Together we have enacted sanctions that are having a strong effect."

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said he has written to all UK ports to ask they deny access to Russian flagged, registered or operated vessels.

He tweeted: "Today I've written to all UK ports asking them not to provide access to any Russian flagged, registered, owned, controlled, chartered or operated vessels.

"Given Putin's action in £Ukraine I've made clear these vessels are NOT welcome here with prohibiting legislation to follow."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said President Vladimir Putin's war could last for years and she told Ukrainians "we are prepared to suffer economic sacrifices to support you".

She said she met on Sunday with G7 foreign ministers, joined by Ukraine's foreign minister, saying: "Everyone is clear Putin must lose and we will carry on increasing the pressure until he does.

"We have all seen Ukraine's determination to fight.

"Putin's war could end up lasting for months and years. So, I say to our Ukrainian friends: we are with you. In Britain and around the world we are prepared to suffer economic sacrifices to support you. However long it takes, we will not rest until Ukraine's sovereignty is restored."

In his letter to all UK ports, Mr Shapps said the maritime sector "must play our part" in sanctioning Russia over Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine.

He wrote: "Russia's assault on Ukraine is an unprovoked, premeditated attack against a sovereign democratic state. The UK Government has been clear there would be massive consequences and a severe cost for any Russian military incursion into Ukraine, and, in co-ordination with our international allies and partners, we are developing an unprecedented package of further sanctions.

"The maritime sector is fundamental to international trade and we must play our part in restricting Russia's economic interests and holding the Russian government to account.

"In these circumstances the Department for Transport does not consider it appropriate for Russian vessels to continue to enter UK ports. From this point onwards, UK ports are asked not to provide access to any ship which they have reason to believe is: Owned, controlled, chartered, or operated by any person connected with Russia owned, controlled, chartered or operated by designated persons flying the Russian flag registered in Russia.

"We will seek to support UK ports in identifying Russian ships within scope of the above and will communicate directly with relevant ports when we identify ships bound for UK ports who fall within scope of the above.

"Further detailed sanctions against Russian shipping are being developed and further details will be shared very shortly."

Ivan Babuscsak, from Uzhhorod, who is studying at Napier University in Edinburgh, said Ukraine is "fighting for Europe" and praised Ukrainian soldiers as he called on the whole world to support his homeland.

Mr Babuscsak, a member of the Edinburgh branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain, also said the nuclear threat is "going on already, it's not just about bombs" as nuclear power stations are under threat amid the Russian invasion.

He told the PA news agency: "Finally, after all this help that Europe and America and Canada and other countries, now Japan today, are sending us, it's all thanks to our soldiers, they showed for the first few days, they showed that we will fight for our country and unfortunately the western world does not realise that we, a European nation, we are going to fight for our country.

"All we need is the whole world just to support us. We don't want any land forces from other countries, we just need the support, because what we are doing now, we are fighting for Europe now, not just for our own country.

"You would understand this if you would know Russians."

Mr Babuscsak has been keeping in touch with his parents and relatives in Ukraine and said that people are doing all they can to help each other.

He said: "My family are in Ukraine but I've been lucky, my region is the only region that has not been bombed but at the same time we've got a lot of refugees so all my friends are involved in any kind of volunteering, some helping with the Red Cross, some making food, doing anything they can do for people."

Conservative MP Tom Tugendhat, who chairs the Foreign Affairs Committee, sought assurances that monies frozen and seized will be held and returned to the Russian people "when this criminal conspiracy that laughably calls itself a government falls" and they have a "proper administration" to which it can be returned.

He also suggested countries join together to create a single fund for a "repayment mechanism for the damage done to Ukraine and the rebuilding of Russia in due course".

Liz Truss replied: "Our issue is not with the Russian people, many of whom are now protesting against this appalling regime, it is with Putin and his cronies - that is who we're targeting with our hit on oligarchs and he is right that that money should be protected, and I'll look into the idea he's put forward."

SNP foreign affairs spokesman Alyn Smith supported the sanctions but said he would "urge more", including on refugees, telling MPs: "The UK needs to waive visas, not flags."

Ms Truss replied in the Commons: "We're creating a new Ukrainian humanitarian route to enable families of British nationals to come into the United Kingdom and this will mean an additional 100,000 Ukrainians are able to seek sanctuary in the United Kingdom."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy said: "Labour's priority is to cut off Putin's rogue state from our economic system and to undermine his campaign of aggression in Ukraine."

On sanctions, he added: "The moves to finally clamp down on dirty money so long demanded by Labour and colleagues across the House are long overdue.

"It's regrettable that it's taken this long and a crisis of this nature for action, but we welcome the steps and will study them carefully, but there's still more the Government can do."

He added: "The Government should go further to ensure sanctions can be placed against Russia's extractive industries, energy industries and technological industries.

"It's vital that these sanctions are broad enough to inflict damage on every aspect of Russia's economy."

Responding, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "What we are seeing is Putin is completely isolated, there is nobody else backing him up in these international fora and there is a growing group of countries who are prepared to put sanctions on, who are prepared to supply defensive weapons, and we are leading the charge in bringing those countries on board."

She added: "We are looking at more sanctions on the energy industry, the technology industry."

Liz Truss said Belarus will face further sanctions for its "complicity" in the "abhorrent invasion" of Ukraine.

Ms Truss, in reply to Labour former minister Dame Margaret Hodge, told the Commons: "Members of the Duma can and will be sanctioned, we're working through the list of members in the same way as we're working through our hit list of oligarchs, and I will look into the issues around Kazakhstan and other nations.

"We're already sanctioning Belarus and we're shortly imposing more sanctions on Belarus for the complicity in this abhorrent invasion."

Conservative MP Tobias Ellwood, who chairs the Defence Committee, pressed the UK to put in a resolution at the UN General Assembly to ensure China is "obliged to follow" restrictions being placed on Russia via sanctions.

Ms Truss acknowledged the need to ensure there is "not sanctions leakage into other countries".

She added: "I did speak to my Chinese counterpart. The Chinese did not vote with the Russians at the UN Security Council.

"I'm making it very clear to China and other major nations of their responsibilities to protect the sovereignty and self-determination of Ukraine, and we continue to put pressure on them."

The Liberal Democrats have urged the Government to seize the money of Russian oligarchs "no matter where the money may or may not be transferred to".

Foreign affairs spokesperson Layla Moran mentioned Russian-Israeli billionaire Roman Abramovich, who she said "curiously, a couple of days ago decided to transfer ... or I'll say it out loud, wanted to transfer Chelsea FC into some kind of trust".

She added: "The concern, of course, is that oligarchs are working with their lawyers and accountants to do the same.

"Can she assure this House that we will not stop, we will follow the money and no matter where the money may or may not be transferred to, we will find it and we will seize it?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "I can assure the honourable lady that that is exactly what we are doing. We have a very large team of people working through our hit list of oligarchs and we are also looking at their properties, their ownerships of yachts. We have already grounded their private jets."

Mr Abramovich handed "stewardship and care" of Chelsea to the club foundation's trustees on Saturday in a move aimed to protect the Stamford Bridge club, but now the 55-year-old is said to be trying to help bring an end to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Mr Abramovich's spokesperson told the PA news agency: "I can confirm that Roman Abramovich was contacted by the Ukrainian side for support in achieving a peaceful resolution and that he has been trying to help ever since. Considering what is at stake, we would ask for your understanding as to why we have not commented on neither the situation as such nor his involvement."

Sanctions against Russia should only end once "every inch" of Ukrainian land, including Crimea, is returned, the Foreign Secretary has agreed.

Conservative MP for Elmet and Rothwell Alec Shelbrooke asked: "Does the Foreign Secretary agree with me that the sanctions regime needs to stay in place until every inch of Ukrainian territory is back in Ukrainian control, including Crimea?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "Yes, I completely agree with him."

Elsewhere in the debate, Conservative chair of the intelligence and security committee Julian Lewis said: "Does she accept that the right way to deal with a robotic, sneering psychopath firmly in the grip of small-man syndrome is not to impose sanctions in a piecemeal and gradually escalating way, but to seek to inflect maximum economic pain at the earliest possible moment?"

Ms Truss said: "Yes is the answer, and that is what we are doing. We are pushing as hard as we can for the toughest possible sanctions. This is the biggest package of sanctions the UK has ever put in place in our history and we want to do even more, and we want to push it with our allies."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked Boris Johnson for more anti-tank missiles during their telephone conversation on Monday.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman told reporters: "They had a good conversation - they are speaking almost daily now, as you know.

"In terms of the kit (the UK is sending to Ukraine), I can't get into full details but it will include further anti-tank missiles and other equipment directly requested by President Zelensky and the Ukrainian government.

"They didn't in the call go through the list but from time to time President Zelensky asks for specific bits of kit or equipment and, whenever feasible, we are seeking to deliver it. And, as I say, we are almost up to daily deliveries now across the border."

Asked if the equipment was being flown to Poland and taken by road to Ukraine, the No 10 spokesman replied: "Broadly.

"I won't go into any more specifics. There are reasons why we don't go into exactly how we are getting it across but, broadly speaking, yes, we are unable to fly it directly in."

The UK Government is "looking at" secondary sanctions against companies which may step in to "the gap left in trade" to "profiteer" from the invasion of Ukraine, Liz Truss confirmed.

Conservative former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt said: "Can I ... ask her whether she would consider secondary sanctions, that is to say sanctions not against Russian entities, but against entities in other countries that seek to profit from the gap left in trade?

"It is totally unacceptable for others to profiteer from this invasion, but also will increase the pressure on Russia, as we know it did successfully on Iran."

Foreign Secretary Ms Truss replied: "Yes, we are looking at that, and he is 100% right."

Downing Street said Boris Johnson would be using his Monday afternoon call with G7 and other world leaders to see what can be done to "further up the pressure" on Russia following its invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking to reporters, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The aim is to see what more we can do to dissuade Putin from continuing down this path.

"You have seen how last week the EU, the US, the UK and many other countries came together with a strong sanctions package and other means.

"The donors conference that (Defence Secretary) Ben Wallace attended saw lots of countries who hadn't previously done so commit to defensive military aid. We want to see more of that.

"The Prime Minister will be talking about the need to go further on things like Swift and pushing for that.

"So, I can't pre-empt exactly what they will discuss, but certainly all of them will want to be talking about what more can be done, in a unified sense, to further up the pressure."

The Government is looking at ways to target the families of Russian oligarchs and the people who work for them, Liz Truss has said.

The Foreign Secretary's comments come as Conservative former party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith insisted that oligarchs are mostly in possession of Vladimir Putin's own personal fortune, which is "squirrelled away through their accounts".

He said: "We should remind everybody that the oligarchs are mostly in possession of Putin's own personal fortune, which is something in the order of 200 to 250 billion dollars squirrelled away through their accounts.

"But she will be hamstrung slightly because although we pursue the oligarchs and their money, it is still not mandatory, it is still not an offence for those who have worked for them, their lawyers, their estate agents and all the others, if they fail to give up the information about what other deals that they have done.

"So, can she now introduce in the Bill, make it mandatory for all those in the chain, that if they fail to immediately - someone who is sanctioned - to pass that information up directly, they will themselves be committing a criminal offence?"

Ms Truss replied: "My right honourable friend makes a very good point and we are absolutely looking at what we can do to target the families of oligarchs, the people that work for them, the people that support them, and the people that enable them because, ultimately, all of these people are supporting the Putin regime. And we ultimately need to stop the financing of that regime."

Boris Johnson spoke to Polish President Andrzej Duda ahead of his visit to the country on Tuesday.

"The Prime Minister thanked President Duda for his close collaboration and support to ensure vital defensive and humanitarian aid reached Ukraine," a Downing Street spokeswoman said.

"They both agreed on the need to continue to work with international partners on sanctions measures.

"Sharing their condemnation of the Russian attacks on Ukraine, the leaders paid tribute to the Ukrainian people and their bravery in the recent hours and days.

"The Prime Minister set out the UK's support to mitigate against the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the region, including the £40 million package he announced yesterday, and said the UK stood ready to support Poland further as Ukrainians sought refuge over the border."

SNP MP Brendan O'Hara (Argyll and Bute) asked why Russian state-owned oil tankers were still allowed to use UK ports.

He said: "Why, when we're imposing such harsh economic sanctions on the Kremlin, are we continuing to allow Russian state-owned oil tankers to go freely about their business?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "They won't be going about their business freely for much longer."

Raising the Russian embassy, Labour's Chris Bryant (Rhondda) argued: "I don't really understand why the Prime Minister said last Thursday that we weren't going to engage in cultural or sporting boycotts, because we certainly should.

"We should throw every single thing we've got at the Russians and, finally, I don't understand why the Prime Minister also said last Thursday that we're not going to be sending any Russian diplomats back home.

"Surely we should at least be cutting the Russian embassy here by a half or three-quarters, if not deciding that, frankly, the ambassador who has lied through his teeth to this House should go back home."

Ms Truss replied: "We have a hit list of oligarchs that we are working through ... the Culture Secretary is taking a very tough line on cultural activities and we've seen a number of sporting events already cancelled."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng made a statement in the House of Commons on reforms the Government will be bringing forward to "improve transparency of the ownership of companies and properties in the UK".

Mr Kwarteng said these reforms will "strengthen the enforcement of financial sanctions".

He added: "The openness of our economy to investment from all parts of the world is one of our greatest strengths. However, we're equally determined that we want to attract the right kind of investment.

"As many people in this House will know, oligarchs and kleptocrats from Russia and elsewhere have used the veneer of legitimacy provided by UK-registered companies and partnerships, and they have also used the high-end property to help launder proceeds of corruption."

Liz Truss warned the BBC risks being banned in Russia if the UK Government takes action against the Russian state-backed broadcaster RT.

In response to a question from SNP MP Chris Law (Dundee West), Ms Truss told the Commons: "We are looking at what can be done on RT but the reality is that if we ban RT in the United Kingdom, that is likely to lead to channels like the BBC being banned in Russia.

"What we want is the Russian population to hear the truth about what Vladimir Putin is doing, so there's a very careful judgment to be made, and that is something the Culture Secretary is looking at."

Conservative former minister Jonathan Djanogly said: "I realised that the Government really understood the nature of sanctioning oligarchs when the sanctions on Aeroflot were extended to private jets.

"In that vein, will (Ms Truss) now consider banning insurance for Russian yachts and jets, which will be worldwide application, and make life a lot tougher for those concerned?"

Ms Truss replied: "Nothing is off the table."

Conservative Felicity Buchan (Kensington) said: "At the moment we are freezing assets of those sanctioned, would she consider putting a charge onto those assets, monetising the charge now and using the money raised to pay for the support of refugees in eastern Europe, and ultimately to rebuild Ukraine?"

Ms Truss replied: "I thank (her) for her very innovative idea and I will certainly have a look at that."

Labour's Liam Byrne (Birmingham, Hodge Hill) urged the Government to "speed up the process of hitting the people on the hit list".

Ms Truss replied: "This is a concerted endeavour where all of us are doing all we can as quickly as we can to show unity and deliver a massive hit to the Russian economy ... There are areas where we are going a lot further than our allies, there are some areas where they have gone further than us, but what we need to do is continue to make progress together."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said that in light of Russia's "outrageous actions" in recent days, it is "necessary that we put these criminals on notice and send a clear message that the UK will not tolerate their corruption here".

He said: "To that end, I'm announcing two immediate steps. Firstly, today, my department is publishing a White Paper on corporate transparency and register reform. This White Paper sets out a comprehensive package of reforms to Companies House.

"The agency will be transformed into a custodian of accurate and detailed information ensuring that we can clamp down on those who seek to abuse UK corporate structures to launder money.

"Anyone setting up, running, owning or controlling a company in the UK will need to verify their identity with Companies House, who will then be able to challenge devious information and inform the security agencies."

Mr Kwarteng noted that alongside the White Paper, the Government will be legislating for other measures, "including reform of limited partnerships law, new powers to seize crypto assets and reforms to help businesses share information on suspected money laundering".

Kwasi Kwarteng said the Government will be introducing legislation to Parliament on Tuesday to "accelerate other measures, which will make an immediate, dissuasive effect on dirty money and its purveyors from Russia and elsewhere".

The Business Secretary went on: "The Bill we will introduce tomorrow will create a register of overseas entities to crack down on foreign criminals using UK property to launder their money.

"The new register will require anonymous foreign owners to reveal their real identity to ensure that criminals can no longer hold property behind secretive chains of shell companies.

"By legislating now we will send a clear warning to those who have or who are thinking about using the UK property market to launder ill-gotten gains, particularly those linked to the Putin regime."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, addressing concerns over war crimes, the possible use of chemical weapons and a lack of diplomatic expulsions, said: "We are working very closely with the ICC, the chief prosecutor has already issued a statement about the situation in Ukraine and we're determined that everybody in Russia close to Putin who is in charge of this appalling invasion should be aware that they could be prosecuted for war crimes for what they're doing.

"Of course, on diplomatic expulsions we don't rule anything out and we're working closely with our allies."

On encouraging UK individuals and companies to dispose of investments and shareholdings in Russian companies, Ms Truss told the Commons: "I do welcome the actions by companies who are disassociating themselves from working with the Putin regime, including BP's divestment."

Ofcom has launched 15 investigations into the "due impartiality" of programmes on RT news channel, the broadcast watchdog has announced.

In a statement, Ofcom said it had "observed a significant increase in the number of programmes on the RT service that warrant investigation under our Broadcasting Code".

The investigations relate to 15 editions of the hourly news programme broadcast on RT on February 27 2022 between 5am and 7pm inclusive.

Ofcom said it expected "full co-operation from RT" during its inquiry.

Chief executive Dame Melanie Dawes said: "Given the serious ongoing situation in Ukraine, we will be concluding our investigations into RT as a matter of urgency."

Labour welcomed the Government's plans for an Economic Crime Bill but said the UK had lost time due to years of "Government inaction".

Shadow business minister Seema Malhotra told MPs that Labour supported the measures "in light of the atrocities we are seeing in Ukraine", but added: "He will know that Labour, and indeed some on his own side, have been calling for measures the Government has announced for years.

"We were first promised this legislation in 2016, and in fact it this draft legislation has been ready since 2018. While we support the Government's actions today, he needs to take responsibility for the time and progress lost through Government inaction."

Stressing that "time is of the essence", Ms Malhotra added: "The fact is that the UK would have been in a much stronger position to act with speed and our national security better protected if this register had also been up and running."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng replied: "Clearly, with respect to the time that it has taken, she will remember that in the 2017-2019 Parliament, a huge amount of our time was taken by members of her party and parties opposite to frustrate Brexit.

"They absorbed a huge amount of Parliamentary time and that was one of the reasons, I am afraid, that we couldn't expedite this sort of legislation."

Funding for enforcement is needed to make sure new measures to crack down on economic crime work properly, ministers have heard.

SNP Treasury spokeswoman Alison Thewliss said: "They can have the finest laws in the land but if there is no action and no investment in enforcement then there is very little point in having them at all."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng replied that the measures were "only the beginning of a much tighter regime that we want to bring".

Elsewhere in the debate, the Government faced hints that it should make sure its own donations were above board after newspaper reports in recent months of a secretive "advisory board" of wealthy donors to the Conservative Party.

Conservative chair of the intelligence and security committee Julian Lewis said: "I welcome this statement as far as it goes. As a matter of principle, does he agree that cleansing British public life of dirty Russian money is not quintessentially difficult?"

Mr Kwarteng replied: "As he appreciates, this legislation is timely and we are very grateful for the fact that it seems to have elicited a huge amount of support across the House."

Conservative former cabinet minister Andrew Mitchell (Sutton Coldfield) said: "Will he at least acknowledge that (some MPs) have been asking the Government to do these things for the last four years and more?

"Will he now look at other measures that we have advocated to clamp down on dirty money and money laundering, and the subject of Companies House, where he is absolutely right, will he now ensure that Companies House has real monkey glands for investigating and is not just a library, and that will need money and officials with great expertise, but sunlight, as ever, is the best disinfectant."

Labour's Dame Margaret Hodge (Barking) said: "The public register of beneficial ownership of properties that are foreign owned was promised when David Cameron was prime minister in 2015.

"It was promised then, nothing to do with Brexit, it could have introduced in that year.

"Then we come to Companies House, I am dismayed that all we're getting is a white paper. We had an extensive consultation which was completed a year ago, which gave plenty of building a consensus around the reforms that are necessary. We don't need a white paper, we need legislation."

DUP MP Sammy Wilson (East Antrim) said: "It's a pity that it's taken a war in Ukraine to bring forward these particular measures.

"There's no mention of what resources are going to be available to ensure that there's checking of whatever information is registered."

He went on: "We have plenty of home-grown people who launder money for criminal activities using their past terrorist connections and that needs to be dealt with as well."

Mr Kwarteng replied: "There is very much a commitment to make sure that we have the resources to police this new regime."

Labour's Liam Byrne (Birmingham, Hodge Hill) said: "This is, at best, a half measure. Companies House has 11,000 shell companies where there is no person of significant control registered, yet there's only been 112 prosecutions, that's just one per cent ... We need a far bigger, bolder plan from the minister today."

Mr Kwarteng replied: "This set of measures will be the biggest reform to Companies House in 200 years, it's something significant."

The Foreign Secretary will attend a meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in Geneva on Tuesday following the "unprovoked Russian invasion of Ukraine", the Foreign Office has said.

In a speech to the council, Liz Truss will urge the international community to "isolate Russia and condemn its actions unreservedly", the department said.

The Cabinet minister is expected to say that Russian President Vladimir Putin is "murdering Ukrainians indiscriminately" and that there is "blood on his hands".

"Putin is violating international law, including the UN Charter. He is violating human rights on an industrial scale and the world will not stand for it," she is due to tell the council.

"There are no shades of grey to this conflict. It is about right and wrong. This is Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war against a sovereign nation. There can be no apologising or excusing it.

"I urge nations to condemn Russia's appalling actions and to isolate it on the international stage."

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper urged the Government to provide "clarity" on sanctuary arrangements for Ukraine after, at Home Office questions, Priti Patel confirmed the Ukrainian mother of a British resident would able to join her daughter in the UK.

Ms Cooper claimed that this afternoon the Home Office clarified the arrangements would not cover elderly parents, therefore contradicting the Home Secretary's comments.

Raising a point of order, the shadow home secretary said: "Earlier this afternoon, in response to the Home Secretary's very confusing statement on sanctuary arrangements for Ukraine, I asked the Home Secretary whether the elderly Ukrainian mother of a British resident, who was prevented by Border Force from travelling from Paris to the UK to join her daughter would now, as a result of this announcement, be able today to return to Gare du Nord to come to the UK.

"The Home Secretary said very simply and clearly 'yes', which was welcomed. However, since then, the Home Office has clarified that these arrangements only apply to immediate family - that is spouses, partners, children under 18 and those in need of care. That does not include elderly parents. In this case, the Ukrainian widow is therefore not covered."

Ms Cooper added: "So, given that Home Office ministers are in the House all evening, Mr Deputy Speaker, could you use your endeavours to encourage them to get some clarity for the sake of Ukrainian families?"

Deputy Commons Speaker Nigel Evans replied: "The Government frontbench will have heard the right honourable member's point of order and if the record needs to be corrected, I am sure it will be."

Conservative MP Alicia Kearns (Rutland and Melton) urged the Government to extend transparency efforts into the private education sector.

Speaking in the Commons, she said: "In future packages, will he extend transparency efforts into the private education sector and education corporations, because our sanctions regime should stop these oligarchs who are sanctioned from being able to pay future school fees because they are sanctioned.

"But many of them pay school fees through shell companies, through cash, through cut-outs. And so we make sure that our amazing educational establishments do not continue to receive money of ill-gotten gains."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng replied: "This has been raised, particularly with my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for Education and he is absolutely focused on making sure that our education system isn't abused in the way that property and our companies legislation is."

The Edinburgh International Festival (EIF) said it has asked for and accepted the resignation of Russian conductor Valery Gergiev as its honorary president, with immediate effect.

In a statement, the EIF said: "The board of trustees of the Edinburgh International Festival has asked for, and accepted, the resignation of Valery Gergiev as honorary president of the festival.

"Edinburgh is twinned with the city of Kyiv and this action is being taken in sympathy with, and support of, its citizens."

Mr Gergiev has been dropped by his management company over his ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

World leaders - including from Poland and Romania, as well as those heading up the G7, Nato and the European Union - agreed to "pursue every avenue to ensure that Putin fails" following the show of Russian military force in Ukraine, No 10 said.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The Prime Minister spoke to G7 and other world leaders this afternoon about the situation in Ukraine.

"The leaders agreed that the valiant resistance to the Russian invasion we are seeing in Ukraine is truly inspirational.

"The Prime Minister stressed the need for countries to continue supporting the Ukrainian government, including with the provision of defensive weapons.

"He also underlined the need for an international response to the emerging humanitarian crisis, including through supporting Ukraine's neighbours to deal with large numbers of Ukrainians escaping violence in the country.

"The Prime Minister welcomed the unity of message and action between countries in recent days in response to Russia's invasion.

"He stressed the need to continue applying pressure on Putin's regime, including on Swift, with sanctions and with trade restrictions. The Prime Minister commended the progress over the weekend with all G7 countries agreeing to remove Russian banks from Swift.

"The Prime Minister also paid tribute to his fellow leaders' renewed commitments to bolster the Nato alliance, including Chancellor Scholz's pledge to massively increase Germany's spending on defence.

"The leaders agreed to pursue every avenue to ensure that Putin fails in his ambitions."

Former One Direction member Louis Tomlinson has cancelled his upcoming concerts in Moscow and Kyiv.

He said in a statement posted on Instagram: "Due to the recent events in Ukraine, I have to sadly announce that my tour shows in Moscow and Kyiv are cancelled until further notice.

"The safety of my fans is my main priority and my thoughts go out to the people of Ukraine and all those suffering from this needless war."

Vladimir Putin has been urged to pull his troops out of Ukraine to prevent further "humanitarian catastrophe" during an address by the UK permanent representative to the United Nations.

Addressing the UN Security Council in New York, Dame Barbara Woodward said: "As a result of President Putin's decision to launch a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, a country of 44 million people is now on the brink of humanitarian catastrophe.

"Whatever my Russian colleague claims, the world can see Russia's indiscriminate attacks against men, women and children across Ukraine, and its disregard for international humanitarian law."

She said missiles had "rained down" on Ukrainian city Kharkiv, that "hundreds of civilians had been killed as a result of the Russian invasion" and seven million people had been displaced, with the figure "rising exponentially".

Dame Barbara said Britain "stands with the Ukrainian people during their time of need" as she outlined the aid pledged by the UK Government.

She concluded: "We know that a humanitarian response is not enough to save the Ukrainian people from the disaster that Russia is inflicting upon them.

"So, our message today is simple. Once again, for the sake of humanity, we call on President Putin to stop this war and withdraw his forces from Ukraine."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220228ei2s0015p


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10326
Irma Jančiauskaitė
6871 字
2022 年 2 月 28 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
(c) 2022 Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
NO. 10326 (94732) MONDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 28

 

ZELENSKY THANKS LITHUANIA FOR SUPPORT

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda on Sunday had a telephone conversation with President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky . They discussed the security situation in Ukraine, the EU 's response to Russia's aggression and a meeting of Ukrainian and Russian officials scheduled for Monday.

The president of Ukraine thanked Lithuania for diplomatic, financial and military support, which helps Ukraine fight for the country and its freedom.

President Nausėda informed Zelensky about the results of his recent conversations with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz , Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and President of the European Council Charles Michel .

Nausėda said the Western world has rallied together in several days and the heaviest sanctions will be imposed against the aggressor and financial as well as military support will be provided to Ukraine, which is fighting for its freedom.

The Lithuanian president said one more step must be made and Ukraine must be granted the status of an EU candidate country. Nausėda devotes maximum efforts in talks with leaders of EU member states on this topic.

On Monday, Nausėda will discuss the situation in Ukraine and the region with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg .

 

EU SHOULD IMMEDIATELY GRANT UKRAINE CANDIDATE STATUS - NAUSĖDA

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – On Sunday, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nausėda held a phone call with the President of the European Council, Charles Michel . The conversation focused on responses to Russia’s military aggression in Ukraine, the supply of arms to Ukraine and the disconnection of Russia from the Swift system, the presidency said.

The Lithuanian president reiterated that, as Ukrainians were fighting not only for their own freedom but also for the freedom and democratic values of Europe as a whole, Europe had to do everything in its power to stop Russian aggression.

The president again emphasized the need to identify as soon as possible Ukraine’s prospect of becoming a candidate country for EU membership. "I am convinced that this should be done immediately,” he said.

Nausėda thanked the president of the European Council for the efforts to help Ukraine. "I would like to remind you of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy ’s words that support is important not only for those who are fighting, they may die even tomorrow, but also for their families and children,” said President Nausėda.

 

UKRAINE'S MEMBERSHIP IN EU IS A MATTER OF MORALITY - NAUSĖDA

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – Lithuanian President Gitanas Nausėda claims that the question of Ukraine's prospects for the European Union 's (EU ) membership is a matter of morality.

"Today, people who are dying may not care about [membership], but as they go into battle they need to know they are fighting for the perspective for their children. This is not just a political issue, it is an issue of morality. We have to talk about a candidate status now," Nausėda said in a press conference.

The president also noted that the issue of Ukraine's membership in the EU was being discussed more and more seriously in Germany. According to him, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has also noticed this.

"He told me that he sees a very clear shift in Germany's politics. Even those political parties that have not been really known for their hostility to Russia have changed strongly and now see Russia's aggression as aggression," said Nausėda.

 

RUSSIA COULD BE EXPELLED FROM SWIFT FASTER THAN EXPECTED - LITHUANIA'S PRESIDENT

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda believes that Russia could be banned from SWIFT sooner than expected.

However, the leader of Lithuania did not want to speculate on when exactly this could happen.

"Given the pace the situation is unfolding, [Russia's disconnection from SWIFT] could happen sooner than we expect today. We just need to get prepared so that the process does not cause great damage to ourselves and so that it really targets the aggressor (&) Russia is being cut off from the world, in every sense, and it may be a really difficult process to accept for the Russian people," Nausėda told reporters during a press conference on Saturday evening.

 

NAUSĖDA SAYS HE WANTED STRICTER EU SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda says that he wanted stricter sanctions against Russia. However, he claims that the sanctions applied by the European Union (EU) are sufficiently effective.

"The list includes the key people who, in one way or another, make decisions or are directly linked to the Kremlin and provide it with certain economic services. Their assets have been frozen. It means that they will no longer be able to live off people's blood and enjoy life in some Western resort. If they want their yachts they can keep them somewhere in Taganrog (a port city in Southern Russia – Elta). No more buying villas in Monaco. If they want an upscale lifestyle they can build their houses somewhere in Russia," Nausėda told reporters on Saturday evening.

The leader of Lithuania also spoke about a breakthrough that has been reached in talks with Germany over the supply of weapons to Ukraine.

"It is indeed very important to supply helmets and bulletproof vests, yet, you cannot win a war with helmets. So, I would like to welcome the German Government 's decision to deliver 1,000 units of anti-tank weapons to Ukraine in the very near future, as well as 500 grenade launchers", Nausėda said.

 

EVERYTHING BEING DONE SO THAT RUSSIA'S 'EXPERIMENT' ENDS IN UKRAINE - NAUSĖDA

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – As Russia continues its aggression in Ukraine, President Gitanas Nausėda reassured Lithuanian residents that everything was being done to prevent the Kremlin's military "experiment" in Ukraine from spreading to other countries.

"I would really like to reassure the people of Lithuania: today we are doing everything possible so that that this experiment – or, rather, venture – which was started in Ukraine stays there, i.e that it ends there. I very much believe in it, so the Baltic States and Europe are not in danger. We have to do everything possible to ensure that our lives remain peaceful and that we can continue building our prosperity," Lithuania's president said in a press conference on late Saturday evening.

He also highlighted the reinforced support of NATO allies and their continued reassurances that Article 5 was rock solid.

"The reassurances that Article 5 is sacred are now so frequent that sometimes we not even pay heed. However, another important thing for me is the fact that our NATO allies, especially those who have commitments to Lithuania, demonstrate it very clearly and practically by sending additional forces," Nausėda said.

 

NAUSĖDA MET WITH GERMAN CHANCELLOR, POLISH PM IN BERLIN

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – On Saturday, 26 February, President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda met with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Berlin. The president stressed that Ukrainians fighting against invading Russian forces are fighting not only for the freedom of Ukraine but also for the freedom of entire Europe and its democratic values.

"We are here to create a wide coalition and save independent, democratic Ukraine," said Nausėda.

The meeting discussed heavy sanctions against Russia. The president reiterated strong support for cutting Russia off from the SWIFT interbank payment system and stopping the development of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project between Russia and Germany. The meeting also discussed prospects of Ukraine becoming an EU candidate country, which the president strongly supports.

Furthermore, the head of state called to immediately provide full support to Ukraine, including financial and military. He said Lithuania's aid – protective equipment, rifles and ammunition – is on the way to Ukraine.

The Lithuanian president, the German chancellor and the Polish prime minister also discussed the details of important decisions adopted at the NATO summit to increase the security NATO member states.

Nausėda reiterated that Lithuania highly values German leadership of the NATO enhanced Forward Presence Battle Group and the recent decision to deploy additional forces to Lithuania. However, as the situation is changing unpredictably, the president stated that NATO countries had to be ready for anything and continue increasing their presence on the Alliance's eastern flank.

 

NAUSĖDA APPEALS TO PEOPLE OF RUSSIA FOR SECOND TIME

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – On Saturday, 26 February, President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda appealed to the people of Russia after the Kremlin launched an invasion of Ukraine two days earlier.

"I appeal to you, people of Russia. I appeal to you, mothers of soldiers, who are sent to die in Ukraine. I appeal to you, soldiers, who are fighting for who knows what and why. What is the meaning of this war? Only because someone sitting at a table drew a piece of land on the map that he wants to take away? A piece of land that had never belong to him, does not belong to him and will never belong to him," President Nausėda said in a video message posted on Twitter .

"It is terrifying to see what is going on. It is terrifying to see women and children die. Churches are being destroyed. What are you fighting for? You are destroying what is sacred to all the Slavs – the cradle of orthodoxy, Kiev Rus. Stop! Think about what you are doing. About what your leaders are doing. It is not too late. Even though much evil has been committed it is not too late yet to stop all of this," stated the president.

 

I HAVE NOT HEARD SO MANY ASSURANCES OVER NATO ARTICLE 5 IN RECENT YEARS – NAUSĖDA

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – On Friday, 25 February, in Warsaw, President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda participated in a meeting with leaders of Bucharest Nine countries and in a virtual NATO summit. The meetings discussed support to Ukraine and increase of regional security in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Addressing the Bucharest Nine, the president stressed that after Russia launched an open military attack against Ukraine, it is vital to boost defence and security of NATO 's eastern flank, and to increase allied forces in Lithuania and neighbouring countries.

"There must be not a single gap in our region's security," stated Nausėda.

The president emphasised that Russia has launched a large-scale offensive against Ukraine, including its capital Kyiv. Therefore, it is crucial to provide full support to Ukraine.

"This morning I spoke to President [of Ukraine] Volodymyr Zelensky . Ukraine's call for help was very clear – they need measures to defend their country and the lives of their citizens. The Ukrainians are fighting. We must help them now. There is now tomorrow. There is only today and we must act," said Nausėda.

After a meeting with the leaders of the Bucharest Nine, President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda stated that Western allies have rallied together and the meeting highlighted the importance of NATO Article 5 on collective defence.

"In the last five or ten years I have never heard so many assurances over Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. It is described in metaphors like the ironclad, sacred commitment, but the essence is not in metaphors. The essence is in very reassuring messages sent by the allies," said Nausėda.

According to the president, NATO allies have reaffirmed their statements by taking real actions and immediate responding to what is happening in Ukraine, and decisions are made over greater NATO presence in regions facing a direct threat.

Nausėda stressed that the Kremlin's aggression has rallied NATO allies together and all countries are united on the issue of Ukraine and the condemnation of Russia.

Furthermore, at the NATO summit, Nausėda strongly supported greater sanctions on Russia, its removal from the SWIFT interbank payment system, preventing the development of the Nord Stream 2 project, sanctioning Russia's energy and oil sectors, and expelling the country from international organisations. The president said the aggressor with blood on his hands has no place at the G20 table or at the UN Security Council .

The head of state drew NATO leadership's attention that Belarus must be also held accountable for its role in the military invasion of Ukraine and thus sanctions must be expanded against Minsk.

The president also said NATO had to demonstrate its solidarity with allies and readiness to act, therefore, NATO 's eastern flank had to be reinforced immediately because only decisive actions and maximum readiness can stop the Kremlin from further aggression.

 

KREMLIN'S BRUTAL REGIME WILL NOT STOP UNLESS WE STOP IT – NAUSĖDA

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – On Friday, President Gitanas Nausėda is on a working visit to Warsaw. On Friday morning, the president participated in a meeting of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF). During the meeting, the leaders of the JEF nations discussed measures to respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, said the presidency.

Addressing the leaders of the JEF countries, the president stressed that Russia's large-scale military aggression against Ukraine was an attack against the entire democratic world.

"Putin is attacking Ukraine, Kyiv is being bombed. The Kremlin's brutal regime will not stop unless we stop it. With its aggressive military actions, Russia is seeking to destroy the security architecture of the Western world and replace it with an order based on violence, use of force and aggression. We cannot let this happen," the president said.

Gitanas Nausėda presented Lithuania's proposed response to Russia. According to the president, the whole world must strongly and unconditionally condemn Russia's aggression and the involvement of Belarus in organising the invasion of Ukraine.

"We must immediately suspend Russia's membership of international organisations. The aggressor has no place in the G7 and the UN Security Council . Sanctions must be further tightened by cutting Russia off from the SWIFT system and by stopping the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline," Gitanas Nausėda said.

The president also stressed the need to strengthen support for Ukraine by all possible means and to increase the military readiness of allies.

 

NAUSĖDA SAYS RUSSIA WILL BE STOPPED NOW OR NEVER

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda says Russia must be stopped as its soldiers are assaulting Ukraine indiscriminately.

"Now or never," Nausėda said while on an official visit in Warsaw on 25 February.

On Friday, Nausėda relayed to partners requests of President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky , whose country is under attack by Russia.

"This morning I spoke to President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky . He expressed very concrete requests, which I relayed to our partners. I very much hope this can be done in the nearest future because we see what is happening in Kyiv. We see that the Russian army is indiscriminately attempting to invade further, trampling the right of people, of civilians to live. It must be stopped," said Nausėda.

 

SOCDEMS ASKS GOVT WHY LITHUANIA'S AIRSPACE IS STILL OPEN FOR RUSSIAN AIRCRAFT

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian Social Democratic Party (LSDP), an opposition party, notes that neighbouring countries have started closing their airspace for Russia one after another due to its attack on Ukraine, but Lithuania is only "preparing to consider" this move. Social Democratic MPs argue that the Government should not delay the decision.

"[Prime Minister] Ingrida Šimonytė constantly speaks about the heaviest sanctions against Russia, but when neighbours are closing their airspace [for Russia] we for some reason delay adopting the decision and seem to be the last window to Europe for Russian air transport," said MP Gintautas Paluckas, the chairman of the LSDP political group in parliament.

The LSDP argues that the airspace must be closed for Russian companies, stressing that "there is nothing to consider".

 

SEIMAS SPEAKER URGES EU AND NATO PARLTS TO FOLLOW LITHUANIA'S EXAMPLE

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – Speaker of the Seimas Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen has sent letters to heads of parliament of the European Union and NATO countries, informing them that the Lithuanian Parliament has adopted a resolution condemning the aggression of Russia and Belarus against Ukraine. She urged other parliaments to pass similar resolutions.

The speaker of the Seimas calls to provide all possible support to Ukraine – military, economic, political, humanitarian and legal, as well as grant the country EU and NATO membership.

She says Russia must be isolated from the rest of the world – all possible measures must be used immediately, from revoking membership in international organisations, to imposing heavy personal and sectoral sanctions, and removing Russia from the SWIFT interbank payment system.

On 28 February, in Riga, Latvia, Čmilytė-Nielsen will attend a meeting of speakers of parliaments of the Baltic States and Sweden. There, she intends to discuss concrete measures so that efforts would be urgently focused on full-fledged support for Ukraine, increasing regional security and a strong response to Russia.

 

LITHUANIA CLOSES ITS AIRSPACE FOR RUSSIAN AIRCRAFT

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – The Government of Lithuania convened for a sitting at 7 p.m. Saturday, 26 February, and adopted a decision to close Lithuania's airspace for Russian aircraft.

Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Poland, Romania and the United Kingdom have already closed their airspace for Russian aircraft after Russia started a war against Ukraine on 24 February.

The Government of Lithuania issued a statement saying, "Aircrafts of air operators that hold an air operator's certificate issued by the Russian Federation will be banned from entering to or departing from Lithuania's airspace. This decision will be effective for an indefinite period."The airspace will be closed in coordination with Estonia and Latvia.

The Baltic Governments will notify the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) thereof, said the Government.

On its part, Lithuania will inform the NOTAM of this decision through air navigation service provider Oro Navigacija.

 

LITHUANIA ANNULS CERTIFICATES FOR CONSTRUCTION PRODUCTS MADE IN RUSSIA AND BELARUS

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – The Construction Product Certification Centre of Lithuania (SPSC) has annulled certificates for all construction products made in Russia and Belarus. The decision is made after Russia invaded Ukraine.

In Lithuania, it will no longer be possible to use Russian- and Belarusian-made construction products for which certification is compulsory. This also means that the majority of such goods cannot be sold in the EU.

Minister of Environment Simonas Gentvilas said, "Reinforced concrete, metallurgy and cement companies are for the most part directly dependent on the regimes and are their sources of income. We cannot finance dictators with our money. I realise these decisions will complicate projects of some of Lithuania's construction and real estate developers. We must also realise that peace has its price."

Decisions on annulment of certificates will take effect once decrees in question are signed.

 

RALLY HELD NEAR GERMAN EMBASSY IN VILNIUS DEMANDING TO REMOVE RUSSIA FROM SWIFT

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – A rally near the Embassy of Germany in Lithuania took place in Vilnius on Saturday afternoon, 26 February. People urged German politicians to block Russia from the SWIFT interbank payment system.

Approximately 100 people who participated in the rally held banners reading "Cut Russia from SWIFT", "Ukraine you are not alone", "Cut Russia out and do it swiftly" and "Germany just do it".

The organisers of the campaign stated that the goal is to express support with Ukraine with the intention that Russia would be cut off from SWIFT and that heavy sanctions would be imposed, noting that Russia itself said that sanctions thus far have demonstrated the EU 's "impotence".

 

LITHUANIA'S MFA ISSUES STATEMENT ON 8TH ANNIVERSARY OF OCCUPATION OF CRIMEA

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – On 26 February, on the eighth anniversary of the Day of Resistance to the Occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania strongly condemns Russia's actions and the continued violation of Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and demands the immediate cessation of military actions and the immediate withdrawal of the Russian troops from the territory of sovereign Ukraine.

The recent brutal invasion of a neighbouring peaceful, sovereign and democratic Ukraine by Russia is a flagrant violation of the norms of international law enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations (UN ), the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter of Paris, the Foreign Ministry stated.

We strongly condemn Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol eight years ago in flagrant violation of international law. We condemn the systematic repression and suppression of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the annexed Crimea and the repressions against human rights defenders, journalists, representatives of civil society, especially the Crimean Tatars, and the banning of the activities of the Medjlis. We call for the release of illegally imprisoned Ukrainian citizens, termination of the militarisation of the peninsula and free navigation in the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania welcomes the Joint Declaration adopted at the First Summit of the International Crimea Platform on 23 August 2021 and supports its implementation.

Lithuania reaffirms its support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine within the borders recognised by the international community. Lithuania will continue to consistently pursue its policy of non-recognition of the illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol, and we will ensure that the European Union and other international sanctions imposed on Russia continue until Russia withdraws from all illegally occupied territories of Ukraine.

 

BY HELPING UKRAINE TO DEFEND ITSELF, WE ARE HELPING EUROPE TOO – FORMIN

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – On 25 February, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis attended the Extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union (EU) taking place in Brussels, Belgium, held in response to the military aggression against Ukraine. The ministers adopted legislation approving the second sanctions package against Russia and additional forms of assistance to Ukraine, said the MFA.

"Today, Ukraine fights for its right to exist, for its freedom and ability to choose. But make no mistake: Ukraine is not the only one under attack today. Currently, it fights for the fate and future of the entire democratic Europe. The new sanction package adopted today is another step forward coordinated with our partners, but it will not be enough to stop Russia's military invasion," Minister Landsbergis said and further encouraged to continue actions by isolating Russia politically and economically, and to immediately agree upon the preparation of the third package, which would involve disconnecting Russian banks from the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT), restrictive measures imposed on Russia's economic sectors, and extensive individual sanctions against persons, oligarchs and businesses.

Ukraine's Foreign Affairs Minister Dmytro Kuleba attended the Council session remotely; he provided an overview of the situation in Ukraine and discussed possible EU economic and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine.

"We must support the nation under attack by all possible means: Ukraine's defenders need fuel, protective measures and defence systems. They do not lack motivation; however, it is our responsibility to strengthen our support and to expand European economic and humanitarian assistance package," Minister Landsbergis said.

During the Council session, the ministers approved new targeted sanctions against Russia's financial, energy and transport sectors, including export control and prohibition of export funding, by restricting Russia's abilities to use essential technologies, as well as sanctions regarding visa policy. EU ministers also adopted new criteria, on the basis of which EU countries will be able to impose sanctions against oligarchs.

 

DEFMIN DISCUSSED MILITARY ASSISTANCE DELIVERY WITH AMBASSADOR OF UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – In the afternoon of 25 February, Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas met with Ambassador of Ukraine in Lithuania Petro Beshta to discuss the delivery of Lithuania's military assistance to Ukraine planned to take place shortly. Lithuania transfers to Ukraine armour vests, helmets, Kalashnikov rifles and ammunition, reports the Ministry of National Defence.

"We stand with Ukraine in this difficult hour by doing all we can to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces with arms. We understand that Ukrainian troops are also fighting for our security. We must stop Russia as soon as possible," said Minister Anušauskas.

Lithuania has already provided Stinger air defence systems, bulletproof vests, thermovisors to Ukraine earlier. Lithuania does everything possible to support Ukraine's statehood and independence, this effort will continue.

 

LITHUANIA SUSPENDS MEDICAL TOURISM FOR RUSSIAN CITIZENS

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – In solidarity with Ukraine and its people who face military aggression of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Health of Lithuania has stopped issuing permits on an exceptional basis to citizens of the Russian Federation.

This means that Russian citizens will not be able to travel to Lithuania to receive healthcare services, such as diagnostic examination, in patient care, surgery or rehabilitation services.

In addition, permits will not be issued when the grounds for arrival include nursing of relatives residing in Lithuania.

 

FORMIN CONFIRMS EU AGREED TO FREEZE PUTIN'S AND LAVROV'S ASSETS

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis has confirmed that the European Union has reached an agreement to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov after Russia launched an invasion of Ukraine.

"The decision is unanimous, nobody opposes it. Their assets will be frozen. These are financial sanctions on their assets," Landsbergis told the news agency ELTA on Friday.

The minister admitted that it was not easy to reach an agreement. He said the beginning of talks was hard but Europe will show its backbone as "Putin and his soldiers in Ukraine are bombing and killing, and strive to occupy the country".

"Russia is a member of the United Nations Security Council . Russia and its leader, and foreign minister are sanctioned by the European Union . This is a very strong message," stressed Landsbergis.

The minister added it seems realistic that the EU member states will also agree to cut Russia off from the SWIFT interbank payment system.

"The issue is moving ahead (&), but I cannot give an answer about the end result, we must wait for all the discussions to end," the minister told ELTA.

The head of Lithuania's diplomacy is attending a meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels on Friday.

 

JUSTICE MIN, MFA TO ADDRESS INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT OVER RUSSIA'S INVASION OF UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – The Ministry of Justice of Lithuania in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are preparing to address the International Criminal Court in The Hague over Russia's military actions against Ukraine.

According to the Ministry of Justice, the organisation's prosecutor has reminded all countries engaged in military actions in Ukraine that, following the declaration of 8 September 2015 which recognised the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court , his office may investigate all instances of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes that were committed in Ukraine since 20 February 2014.

Minister of Justice Evelina Dobrovolska says that on behalf of Lithuania, based on Article 15 of the Rome Statute, it is sought to provide information to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court about crimes against humanity and war crimes in Ukraine after Russia launched a war against Ukraine.

The minister stated that the international community must draw attention to Russia's brutal aggression against independent Ukraine. She appealed to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and international non-governmental organisations in Ukraine, such as the Red Cross, asking them to collect evidence about the genocide of the Ukrainian people, crimes against humanity and war crimes carried out by the Putin and Lukashenko regime because this information may be significant in the investigation at the International Criminal Court over the actions of Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko in Ukraine.

The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have established an informal working group to examine legal possibilities to assess current events in the context of international accountability.

 

WE WILL ENSURE POSSIBILITY FOR UKRAINIAN CARGO CARRIERS TO RETURN HOME THROUGH LITHUANIA – TRANSPORT MIN

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – In response to the war in Ukraine and reacting to the request of Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine Oleksandr Kubrakov , Lithuania will provide an opportunity for all Ukrainian international cargo carriers in Russia or Belarus to return to their country by transit through Lithuania, announced the Ministry of Transport and Communications.

Until 20 March, all vehicles registered in Ukraine carrying out international cargo transportation and returning to Ukraine will be allowed to enter Lithuania and transit through our territory without Lithuanian travel permits.

The Customs Department and the Lithuanian Transport Safety Administration were informed regarding the conditions for all Ukrainian cargo carriers to enter the territory of Lithuania.

 

PROTESTERS GATHERED IN FRONT OF RUSSIA'S EMBASSY IN VILNIUS

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – On Sunday noon, more than 500 residents and guests of Vilnius, mostly women, have gathered in front of the building of the Russian Embassy for a peaceful protest against Russian aggression in Ukraine.

Protesters carry posters that read "Russian Mothers, Call Your Sons to Go Back Home", "Personal Gain Should not Come Before Life", "Ukrainian Children Need Peace Right Now", "Russian Mothers - Still Silent??? The Blood Shed by Ukrainian Children is on You Too", "End the Lies, Stop the War", "Glory to Ukraine".

The protesters also brought the flags of Ukraine and Lithuania and sunflowers, the national flower of Ukraine.

Some of the participants came with funeral wreaths.

 

END RESULT IS RUSSIA'S TOTAL ISOLATION - LITHUANIA'S FORMIN

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – Lithuania's Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis says that Russia's expulsion from SWIFT will not be the only measure because the main aim is the total isolation of Russia.

"The end result is total isolation (&) the intention is to close all roads for Russia as much as possible", he said in a press conference on Sunday.

And this, Minister Landsbergis stressed, is an unprecedented moment.

"Image that we completely remove a member of the United Nations Security Council from the global economy and political arena. We isolate it economically and politically. This is a new world. We are not going back to the time before this war. And this understanding of a new phase is now on the minds of all politicians as we witness a huge tectonic shift in both the perception of security and the assessment of Russia", he said.

 

LITHUANIA'S FORMIN SAYS RUSSIA'S PROPOSAL TO NEGOTIATE IS NOT SERIOUS

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – Lithuania's Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis says that Russia's offer to Ukraine to hold negotiations in Belarus is a measure of pressure rather than a serious offer.

"Russia was hoping for a very quick operation in Ukraine, the capture of cities, and perhaps even the capitulation of the Government. They had planned for the capitulation to take place under very, very unfavourable conditions to Ukraine. But there is no capitulation, the cities are holding on, Kyiv and other major cities have not been taken. It is obvious that the proposal for talks is somewhat short of the desired effect", Minister Landsbergis said at a press conference on Sunday morning.

He also stressed that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has been invited for talks in an aggressor country that is at war with Ukraine.

"Belarus is a participant of this war, an aggressor, just like Russia. This, clearly, is an instrument of pressure. It would be difficult to call it anything else. And it is definitely not a serious proposal for negotiations", the minister said.

 

EMBASSY OF LITHUANIA IN UKRAINE WILL BE TEMPORARILY OPERATING AT UKRAINIAN-POLISH BORDER

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania informs that, as Russian invasion of Ukraine intensifies, the Embassy of Lithuania in Ukraine will be temporarily operating on the Ukrainian-Polish border.

Lithuanian citizens in Ukraine who have no travel document or their travel document has expired, can apply for an emergency travel document at the Honorary Consulate of Lithuania in Lviv.

Those traveling via Poland should know that Polish border guards have the right to decide on the admission of citizens of EU member states without a valid travel document. The possession of a valid travel document may speed up border crossings.

Lithuanian citizens who have entered Poland from Ukraine without a valid travel document should contact the Embassy of Lithuania that is temporarily operating on the Ukrainian-Polish border and apply for a travel document.

Lithuania's Foreign Ministry has urged Lithuanian citizens, remaining in Ukraine, to depart independently without delay to Poland, Slovakia, Hungary or Romania using available land transportation options, but not to travel to Belarus and Russia.

 

RESIDENTS, BUSINESSES OF LITHUANIA SEND 12 MINIVANS WITH AID TO UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 27 (ELTA) – On Sunday afternoon, 12 minivans filled with essential supplies for Ukrainians attacked by Russia left from Vilnius to the Ukrainian-Polish border.

Businesses and residents of Lithuania who responded to the call of the car rental agency Deals On Wheels collected the donations in just 24 hours.

On their return to Vilnius, the vehicles will be able to pick up to 90 war refugees wanting to reach Lithuania.

The minivans will deliver humanitarian aid to Ukraine: clothes, shoes, safety goggles, power banks, fuel, first aid kits, food, medicines, hygiene products and other essential supplies.

The group also include 6 Ukrainians who decided to return to Ukraine from Lithuania to defend their homeland.

The 12 minivans are driven by motorsport enthusiasts and journalists.

 

NATIONAL CYBER SECURITY CENTRE WARNS OF INCREASED CYBER SECURITY RISK

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – Cyber security environment remains stable in Lithuania but so does the high cyber-incident risk, especially of those targeting Lithuania's critical information infrastructure and state information resources, said the Ministry of National Defence.

The National Cyber Security Centre under the Ministry of National Defence issued corresponding warning to managers of such resources last week, provided recommendations to them on the ways to strengthen cybersecurity of the information systems in their responsibility, and took other preventive measures.

The National Cyber Security Centre experts are monitoring the situation closely together with other authorities and exchanging the information with partners.

A heightened likelihood of disinformation should be note. Viewers should think critically, check the information and use reliable sources.

 

INTERNET MEDIA ASSOCIATION CONDEMNS RUSSIA'S ATTEMPTS TO CENSOR MEDIA

 

Vilnius, February 26 (ELTA) – Lithuania's Internet Media Association (IŽA) condemns Russia's attempts to censor media in terms of how it covers Russia's military actions in Ukraine.

Russia's Roskomnadzor (the Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media ) has warned a number of Russian media outlets that they must stop describing Russia's invasion of Ukraine as war and demands to call it "a special military operation".

IŽA condemns attempts to infringe on the freedom of speech, as well as attempts to censor free and independent media.

The association unites major online news websites Delfi.lt, 15min.lt, Lrytas.lt, tv3.lt, Madeinvilnius.lt. VE.lt, Kaunas.kasvyksta.lt, Etaplius.lt.

 

LITHUANIA SUSPENDS RETRANSMISSION OF 6 RUSSIAN, BELARUSIAN TV CHANNELS

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – The Radio and Television Commission of Lithuania (LRTK) has suspended retransmission of six propagandist TV channels broadcasting in the Russian language in Lithuania.

At an emergency meeting on Friday, the LRTK decided to take action with regard to several TV channels against the backdrop of Russia's war on Ukraine due to constant gross violation of international and national law, because of dissemination of information that poses a threat to national security, incitement of war and ethnic hatred and dissemination of biased information.

Retransmission of RTR Planeta, Rossiya 24, NTV Mir and Belarus 24 is suspended for 5 years, retransmission of the First Baltic Channel (PBK) and TVCi is suspended for 3 years.

Due to propaganda actively inciting war, the LRTK will closely monitor online media that grants access in Lithuania to unlawful content and disinformation.

The Commission asks all bodies and citizens to inform it about unlawful content and disinformation in Lithuania's information space.

 

LITHUANIA POST SUSPENDS SALE OF RUSSIAN AND BELARUSIAN GOODS AND PERIODICALS

 

Vilnius, February 25 (ELTA) – Lithuania Post has suspended trade in Russian and Belarusian goods, as well as sales and delivery of subscribed periodicals published in these countries.

"We firmly support Ukraine and its people in extraordinary difficult times. Suspension of sales of Russian and Belarusian goods and circulation of periodicals is one of our steps. Next week, we will start selling Ukrainian flags and EUR 5 from every flag sold will be donated to charity," said Deimantė Žebrauskaitė, the head of the Customer Experience Management Department.

Delivery of subscribed periodicals and trade of Russian and Belarusian publications is suspended as of 25 February. Money for undelivered publications will be reimbursed to bank accounts if ordered online, while money for subscriptions ordered at post offices can be recovered at post offices.

 

AFTER 2024, FSRU INDEPENDENCE WILL STAY IN LITHUANIA

 

Klaipėda, February 25 (ELTA) – Shareholders of KN (Klaipėdos nafta ), the operator of oil and liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals, approved a decision on the acquisition of the Floating Storage Regasification Unit (FSRU) Independence at the end of its lease agreement and the terms for the acquisition, which are predetermined in the Time Charter Party, the company reported.

FSRU Independence has been leased since 2014 from Höegh LNG of Norway, which won an international tender for the supply of a storage vessel in 2012.

The Law on LNG Terminal in Lithuania provides that the LNG terminal operator shall select the most economically advantageous offer for the acquisition of a floating storage and regasification unit (FSRU) and shall acquire FSRU upon ownership right and become the owner by 31 December 2024 at the latest. The operation of the terminal shall be guaranteed until 31 December 2044.

LNG long-term import solution project, the most important part of which is the acquisition of the FSRU, contributes to the strengthening of the country's energy security and self-sufficiency by ensuring the possibility to meet the country's gas demand in alternative ways, and to guaranteeing the reliable production of electricity.

"Since the start of its operation, the terminal has lived up to its name and purpose – today we have our independence from the Russian 'gas needle' ensured, our supply markets successfully diversified and are also able to import natural gas from around the world. Under current geopolitical tensions, the decision to acquire the FSRU is an important and necessary decision to ensure our strategic energy ambitions," says Dainius Kreivys , the minister of energy.

"Value created by the LNG terminal is more than tangible. Our cost-benefit analysis shows that by operating the LNG terminal Lithuania saves gas consumers around EUR 140-150 million annually, depending on the gas price and the volume of gas consumed. In addition to these economic benefits, it is more than obvious that without this infrastructure, our industry and consumers would not only suffer potential economic losses due to possible price manipulation from Russia but would also have to take the risks of security of supply and business continuity. At the moment, the world's major powers, including those in Europe, are turning to the LNG terminals as one of the main guarantors of energy security. KN, with its unique competences and experience in the operation and development of this type of terminals worldwide, can successfully use these competences to contribute both to the generation of additional value for its shareholders and to a more sustainable and secure energy supply for other countries," says Darius Šilenskis , the CEO of KN.

In order to identify the most economically viable FSRU option KN has conducted the market consultation and research on the acquisition of the FSRU and initiated international procurement procedure in 2021. During the procurement procedure, the potential suppliers of the FSRUs in principle acknowledged that they could not offer a more cost-effective solution than the current option, namely FSRU Independence.

Following the shareholders' approval, KN shall inform Höegh LNG of its decision to exercise the option to redeem the FSRU Independence within the timeframe set out in the lease agreement, with a set deadline in December 2022. The purchase contract should be concluded no later than December 2024. Also, it is planned that KN will take additional decisions regarding the operation and management and registration of the vessel in 2022.

In 2021, 62 percent of the total volume of gas imported to Lithuania and supplied to the consumers in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Finland was imported through Klaipėda LNG terminal. The largest share of LNG, imported by the LNG terminal users through infrastructure in Klaipėda, was delivered from the USA.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Monday, February 28

-- President Gitanas Nausėda :

-- -- an interview with Sveriges Television (Presidential Palace, 9:00);

-- -- an interview with Verdens Gang (Presidential Palace, 13:30).

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to meet with speakers of Latvian, Estonian and Swedish parliaments in Riga (12:00);

-- -- a joint press conference of the prime ministers (13:30);

-- -- a lunch with speakers of Latvian, Estonian and Swedish parliaments (14:00).

MINISTRIES

In Warsaw, Interior Minister Agnė Bilotaitė to meet with Bartosz Grodecki, undersecretary of state at the Polish Ministry of Interior and Administration, to discuss the reception of refugees from Ukraine. The meeting will be joined remotely by the interior ministers of Latvia, Estonia, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Moldova.

-- END.

Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA

文件 ELTA000020220228ei2s0002t


International
Russia-Ukraine crisis live updates | International Criminal Court to open probe on ‘situation in Ukraine’
The Hindu Bureau
1544 字
2022 年 3 月 1 日
The Hindu Online
THINDO
英文
© 2022 THG Publishing Pvt. Ltd.
Thefirst round of talks[https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/ukraine-seeks-to-join-eu-as-round-of-talks-with-russia-ends/article65131287.ece] between Russia and Ukraine concluded on February 28, without resulting in a deal. Both sides agreed to continue the talks, as Ukranian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged that Ukraine be given membership of the European Union.

The United Nations General Assembly[https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/fiery-speeches-as-unga-begins-discussion-on-ukraine-at-rare-emergency-session/article65095815.ece] and the United Nations Security Council met separately to address the ongoing Russian invasion. At the emergency special session of the UNGA, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said, “Nothing can justify the use of nuclear weapons.”

At the UNSC, India’s Permanent Representative T.S. Tirumurti informed the Security Council that the Government was sending humanitarian aid[https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/india-will-send-humanitarian-assistance-to-ukraine-ministry-of-external-affairs/article65095023.ece] to Ukraine on March 1 and had senior Ministers visiting Ukraine’s neighbours[https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/four-union-ministers-to-travel-to-ukraines-neighbouring-countries-to-coordinate-evacuation-of-indians/article65092161.ece] to discuss the arrival of Indian citizens in these countries.

The ninth Operation Ganga flight carrying 218 Indian evacuees departed Bucharest early on Tuesday.

Russia’s global isolation continued as the United Statesexpelled 12 Russian diplomats[https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/us-expels-12-russian-diplomats-staffing-un-mission/article65142631.ece] staffing the U.N. mission.

Explosions and gunfire continued in major Ukranian cities as Russia pressed on with its military operation, with shelling reported from the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv. More than 350 civilians, including 14 children, have been killed during the invasion, Ukraine says, while more than half a million people have fled the country.

The conflict began escalating on February 21, 2022, after Russian President Vladimir Putin recognised separatist regions[https://www.thehindu.com/news/international/russia-recognises-ukraine-held-areas-as-part-of-rebel-areas/article65073937.ece] in eastern Ukraine and deployed troops in a peacekeeping role.

Here are the latest updates:

Mumbai

Air India flight carrying 182 Indians nationals from Ukraine lands in Mumbai

An Air India Express flight carrying 182 Indians nationals from war-torn Ukraine landed here from the Romanian capital Bucharest on Tuesday morning, an airline spokesperson said.

The AI Express flight IX-1202 from Bucharest via Kuwait touched down the runway at 7.40 am, he said.

This is the second evacuation flight operated to Mumbai from Bucharest to bring back Indians from war-hit Ukraine since February 27.- PTI

International Criminal Court

ICC to open probe on ‘situation in Ukraine’: prosecutor

International Criminal Court prosecutor Karim Khan said Monday he was launching an investigation on the “situation in Ukraine” following Russia’s invasion.

“Today I wish to announce that I have decided to proceed with opening an investigation into the situation in Ukraine, as rapidly as possible,” Khan said in a statement.

“I am satisfied that there is a reasonable basis to believe that both alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity have been committed in Ukraine” since 2014, he added.

“Given the expansion of the conflict in recent days, it is my intention that this investigation will also encompass any new alleged crimes falling within the jurisdiction of my office that are committed by any party to the conflict on any part of the territory of Ukraine.”- AFP

Russia

Disney halts film releases in Russia over Ukraine invasion

Disney announced Monday it is suspending the release of its films in theaters in Russia after Moscow’s assault on Ukraine, following the example of other major companies choosing to pull out of the country.

“Given the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and the tragic humanitarian crisis, we are pausing the release of theatrical films in Russia, including the upcoming ‘Turning Red’ from Pixar,” the US entertainment giant said in a statement.

“We will make future business decisions based on the evolving situation. In the meantime, given the scale of the emerging refugee crisis, we are working with our NGO partners to provide urgent aid and other humanitarian assistance to refugees,” it said.- AFP

Russia

Mastercard blocks multiple Russian financial institutions from network

Mastercard has blocked multiple financial institutions from the Mastercard payment network as a result of sanction orders on Russia, it said late on Monday.

Mastercard will continue to work with regulators to abide fully by compliance obligations, the company said in a statement.- Reuters

Donetsk, Ukraine

Click to view image[https://www.thehindu.com/incoming/80i8p4/article65143410.ece/alternates/FREE_660/2022-02-28T174529Z_357402172_RC20TS9W5SHJ_RTRMADP_3_UKRAINE-CRISIS-DONETSK-AFTERMATH.JPG]

Ukraine

Russia shells Ukraine’s Kharkiv as pressure on Moscow bites

Russia shelled the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv as it pressed on with its invasion Tuesday, defying mounting global pressure that saw a war crimes probe opened against Moscow, sanctions smash its economy and FIFA ban it from the World Cup.

At least 11 people killed by Russian attacks in Kharkiv and Russian missile fire on several residential buildings.

Explosions were also reported in and around Brovary, a city on the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv.

Russian fire killed several civilians, including children, in Kharkiv and Russian armoured vehicles and tanks are “everywhere” around the city, said mayor Igor Terekhov, quoted by Ukrainian media.

More than 350 civilians, including 14 children, have been killed during the invasion, Ukraine says, while more than half a million people have fled the country.- AFP

Russia

Taekwondo-Putin stripped of black belt over Ukraine invasion

Russian President Vladimir Putin has been stripped of his honorary taekwondo black belt over his country’s invasion of Ukraine, a personal rebuke heaped on top of international economic and sporting sanctions.

World Taekwondo, citing its motto of “Peace is More Precious than Triumph,” condemned the Russian military action in Ukraine, saying the “brutal attacks on innocent lives” violated the sport’s values of respect and tolerance.

“In this regard, World Taekwondo has decided to withdraw the honorary 9th dan black belt conferred to Mr. Vladimir Putin in November 2013,” the governing body said in a statement.

It added that it would join the International Olympic Committee in banning the Russian flag and anthem at its events.- Reuters

Kyiv, Ukraine

Vast Russian army convoy spotted north of Kyiv

A huge Russian military convoy stretching some 40 miles was spotted Monday by a US satellite imaging company just north of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, which has already repulsed several assaults.

Satellite photos provided by Maxar, a US company, showed that the convoy -- which had been massing since Sunday -- had mushroomed to more than 40 miles of military vehicles.

It said the column covered the entire stretch of road from near Antonov airport, some 18 miles from the capital, to the town of Prybirsk - a distance of approximately 40 miles.- AFP

Taiwan

Taiwan to follow SWIFT move, sends medical aid to Ukraine

Taiwan will join moves to block some Russian banks from the SWIFT international payments system and has sent humanitarian aid to Ukraine to show support for the international “democratic camp”, the government said on Tuesday.

Taiwan has joined with Western-led allies in putting sanctions on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, and expressed cross-party sympathy for the Ukrainian people, seeing parallels with what Taipei views as Beijing’s threats against the island.

Premier Su Tseng-chang told reporters Taiwan was in lock-step with its democratic partners around the world on its sanctions decision, adding that on SWIFT the government will “cooperate” with what Western countries have decided.

The move is largely symbolic as Taiwan’s trade with Russia is minimal.- Reuters

India at UNGA

India calls for immediate cessation of violence, says all differences can only be bridged through honest dialogue

India has said that it was deeply concerned over the deteriorating situation in Ukraine and reiterated its call for immediate cessation of violence and end to hostilities, saying all differences can only be bridged through honest, sincere and sustained dialogue.

India’s Permanent Representative to the U.N. Ambassador T.S. Tirumurti told a rare emergency special session of the U.N. General Assembly on Ukraine convened on February 28 that New Delhi is doing whatever it can to undertake immediate and urgent evacuation efforts of Indian nationals still stranded in Ukraine.

U.S.A.

U.S. expels 12 Russian diplomats staffing U.N. mission

The beginning of an already fraught United Nations Security Council meeting got even more tense when Russia’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Vassily Nebenzia, informed the body that the U.S. had just expelled twelve of his colleagues from the country, a move confirmed by the American Deputy UNPR Richard Mills.

India at UNSC

India ready to help nationals of neighbouring, developing countries stranded in Ukraine: Tirumurti tells U.N. Security Council

As the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) met in a special session to vote on a resolution calling for Russia’s withdrawal from Ukraine, the U.N. Security Council (UNSC) met to discuss the humanitarian crisis that is developing in the region.

Expressing concern about the unfolding humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations (UNPR) T.S. Tirumurti[https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/escalation-of-tension-along-russia-ukraine-border-matter-of-deep-concern-india-at-un/article65073117.ece] said that India’s evacuation efforts had been hampered by the events at the Ukraine border.

Ukraine

Ukraine seeks to join EU as round of talks with Russia ends

An embattled Ukraine moved to solidify its bond with the West on Monday by applying to join the European Union, while the first round of Ukraine-Russia talks aimed at ending the fighting concluded with no deal but an agreement to keep talking.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy posted photos of himself signing the EU application, a largely symbolic move that could take years to become reality and is unlikely to sit well with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has long accused the West of trying to pull Ukraine into its orbit.

THG Publishing Pvt. Ltd.

文件 THINDO0020220301ei310005m


Armed conflict in Ukraine, topic of phone call between ForMin Aurescu and Pakistani counterpart Qureshi
372 字
2022 年 3 月 1 日 15:42 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Mar 1 /Agerpres/ - The latest security developments in the region and the armed conflict in Ukraine were among the topics approached in the telephone call on Tuesday of Foreign Affairs Minister, Bogdan Aurescu with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Shah Mahmood Qureshi .

According to a release of the Romanian Foreign Affairs Ministry sent, on Tuesday, to AGERPRES, the Pakistani ministry showed particular appreciation for Romania's demarches to manage the flow at the border of Ukrainian civilians and citizens of other states. He was particularly grateful for Romania's support in facilitating the safe evacuation of Pakistani citizens from Ukraine, since the beginning of the crisis and until now, over 300 Pakistani citizens crossing the border between Ukraine and Romania, including diplomats and representatives of the Embassy of Pakistan in Kyiv.

The two officials agreed to continue the tight operative coordination between the Romanian and Pakistani authorities for the safe transit of Pakistani citizens on Romanian territory.

Minister Aurescu condemned in the firmest terms the military aggression of Russia on Ukraine, as a flagrant, repeated breach of the principles of international law, especially the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, as a continuation of the action of illegal recognition by the Russian Federation of the 'independence' of the self-proclaimed separatist republics in Donetsk and Luhansk, component parts of Ukraine.

Aurescu reiterated the fact that, in the opinion of the Romanian party, it is very difficult to conduct negotiations between parties at the same time with continuing and even intensifying the use of armed force and expressed the hope that, in the following stage, there will be from the Russian party a real desire for dialogue that would lead to the end of aggression and the cessation of loss of human life.

During the phone call, the head of Romanian diplomacy emphasized the need for the entire international community to firmly sanction the actions of the Russian Federation, in a coordinated manner, showing that the sanctions already decided upon have started to produce effects. AGERPRES (RO - author: Livia Popescu, editor: Mihai Simionescu; EN - author: Razvan-Adrian Pandea, editor: Simona Iacob)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220301ei31004ph


World
Russia-Ukraine War Updates: PM Modi talks to Putin, discusses safe passage for Indian students from Ukraine
1449 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日
Jagran English
JAGRNO
英文
Copyright 2022 Jagran Prakashan Ltd.
Kyiv/ Moscow/ Washington | Jagran News Desk: Russia and Ukraine are expected to hold the second round of talks on Wednesday in a bid to find resolve differences as the war - which broke out on February 24 - continues to escalate. The two had held the first round of talks in Belarus on Monday but had failed to reach a consensus.

Meanwhile, United States (US) President Joe Biden will deliver his first State of the Union address on Wednesday. It is expected Biden will speak about the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which has dominated the White House's time in recent weeks.

Here are the LIVE Updates from the Russia-Ukraine War:

-Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting also talked with Putin and discussed safe passage for Indian students.

-Union Minister Kiren Rijiju met Indian students who reached Slovakia's Kosice from Ukraine amid conflict between Russia and Ukraine. "We are waiting for the flight to return to our home country," said students

-The special flight from Hungary’s capital Budapest carrying Indian nationals who were stranded in Ukraine arrived at the Delhi airport

-The Embassy (in Kyiv) was asked to set up a temporary office in Lviv to facilitate border crossings by Indians. A substantial segment of our Embassy team is now at Lviv for this purpose. Location of the other segment of the Embassy team is dynamic: MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi

-Prime Minister has been speaking to leaders of several countries. We share with you whenever such talks take place. I would not like to say anything beforehand: MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi when asked if PM Modi will speak to Russian President Vladimir Putin again tonight

-A mechanism for issuing emergency certificates to those who lost their Indian passports has been instituted. I think this will also help many Indian students: Arindam Bagchi, MEA Spokesperson

-A Kremlin spokesman says a Russian delegation will be ready on Wednesday evening to resume talks with Ukrainian officials about the war in Ukraine. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters Wednesday that “in the second half of the day, closer to evening, our delegation will be in place to await Ukrainian negotiators.” He did not indicate where the talks could take place. There was no immediate word from the Ukrainian authorities about their plans. The first round of talks on resolving the Russia-Ukraine war were held near the Belarus-Ukraine border last Sunday.

-Indian Air Force aircraft have joined #OperationGanga with the first C-17 flight from Bucharest (Romania) expected to return to Delhi later tonight. 3 more IAF flights will be undertaken today from Budapest (Hungary), Bucharest (Romania) & Rzeszow (Poland): Arindam Bagchi, MEA

-During the last 24 hours, 6 flights have landed in India, taking the total number of flights that have landed in India to 15 and the total number of Indians who have returned on these flights to 3,352. As many as 15 flights are scheduled over the next 24 hours. Some of these are already actually enroute: Arindam Bagchi, MEA spokesperson

-There has been a sharp increase in the number of Indians who have left Ukraine. We now estimate that nearly 17,000 Indian nationals have left Ukraine borders since our advisories were issued: Arindam Bagchi, MEA spokesperson

-MoS Civil Aviation Gen(Retd)VK Singh interacts with 600 Indian students at Hotel Prezydenckie in Rzeszow, Poland Says, "If your course isn't complete...all people I met in Poland said that they'll take up responsibility for education of all students who were in Ukraine"

Click here to view[https://t.co/9jm2E5wRZb]

— ANI (@ANI) Click here to view[https://twitter.com/ANI/status/1499005951776821248?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

-6 Congress MPs from Punjab met MoS MEA Meenakashi Lekhi&urged her to evacuate Indian students in Ukraine at the earliest.They laid special emphasis on students held in Kharkiv. She assured the delegation that Govt is taking every step for safety & evacuation of Indians in Ukraine

-The aftermath of Russian strikes in several areas of Kyiv in Ukraine

-Chaired a meeting with Ambassador Rahul Shrivastava & Indian diaspora -heads of Indian companies in Romania to decentralise evacuation ops & map out responsibilities, incl assisting with medical emergencies, a 24*7 call center & state-wise data collection: Civil Aviation Minister.

-Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia ushered Srishti, an Indian national stranded in Ukraine to front row&asked fellow passengers to take care of her. She had a ligament tear&was stuck in Bucharest, she met the minister last night during #OperationGanga

Click here to view[https://twitter.com/ANI/status/1498996245029072901?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

-PM reviewing the situation in Ukraine twice a day. Evacuation continues. Now we've also deployed IAF plane for the same. About 2,500 people evacuated till this morning- they are being sent to neighbouring nations and being brought back from there, says Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.

- We're making all efforts to evacuate people stuck in Ukraine under Operation Ganga. 1,000s of citizens brought back to India. To accelerate this mission, India has sent its 4 ministers there, will leave no stone unturned for the safe passage of Indians, says PM Modi in Uttar Pradesh's Robertsganj.

It is due to India's rising strength that we are able to safely evacuate our nationals stuck in Ukraine, for which we are running Operational Ganga, he adds.

-Naveen's friends have sent a photo of his body, sending it to MEA to confirm the same... We're in touch with the Indian embassy so that at least the body is secured. Trying everything possible to bring back the body. Family to be compensated, says Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.

-Almost 6,000 Russians killed in six days of war, says Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

- Russians forces have also capturedKherson, according to media reports.

-Indians stranded in Ukraine leave for India via Moldova.

-Of the 20,000 Indians who were stranded in war-torn Ukraine, 6,000 have been brought back to the country so far and the Centre is making all efforts for the safe return of the remaining ones, Union Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan says.

- Just In:Sounds of powerful explosions in Kharkiv, reports The Kyiv Independent

-Two IAF aircraft take off for Romania and Hungary from the Hindon airbase.

- Also Read -Affordable fees, no NEET hurdle and more: Why Ukraine is popular among Indian medical students | Jagran Explainer[https://english.jagran.com/education/affordable-fees-no-neet-hurdle-and-more-why-ukraine-is-popular-among-indian-medical-students-jagran-explainer-10040142]

-Russian airborne troops land in Ukraine's second city Kharkiv, reports AFP.

-Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh receives Indians returning from Ukraine at Delhi airport.

-The US nuclear power industry is pushing the White House not to sanction Russian uranium and let uranium imports from Russia continue despite the escalating conflict in Ukraine, reports Reuters.

-Just In:Joe Biden's 1st State of the Union address had ended.

-Putin may circle Kyiv with tanks but he'll never gain the hearts and souls of the Ukrainian people, and he will never weaken the resolve of the free world, says Joe Biden.

-Our economy created over 6.5 million new jobs in America last year. More jobs created in one year than ever before, says Joe Biden

-We will join our allies in closing off American airspace to all Russian flights, says Joe Biden.

-The US Department of Justice is assembling a dedicated task force to go after the crimes of Russian oligarchs. We are joining with our European allies to find and seize your yachts, your luxury apartments, your private jets, says Joe Biden.

-We, the United States of America, stand with the Ukrainian people, says Joe Biden.

- The US and our allies will defend every inch of NATO territory with full force of our collective power. Ukrainians are fighting back with pure courage. Putin may gain makes gains on the battlefield but he'll have to continue to pay a high price over the long run, says Joe Biden.

- Just In:Joe Biden delivers 1st State of the Union address.

-America's Boeing announces suspension of support for Russian airlines, reports AFP.

-Six flights have now departed for India in the last 24 hours, including the first flights from Poland. Carried back 1,377 more Indian nationals from Ukraine, tweets EAM Dr S Jaishankar.

- US President Joe Biden will also deliver his first State of the Union address on Wednesday. The annual speech to Congress gives Biden, a Democrat, a chance to highlight his agenda, reassure Americans concerned about COVID-19 and the economy, and seek to boost his sagging poll numbers with a show of presidential pomp.

- Russia and Ukraine are expected to hold the second round of talks on Wednesday in order to end the war between them.

Jagran Prakashan Limited

文件 JAGRNO0020220302ei320008d


President Iohannis welcomes Switzerland's openness to support humanitarian aid hub for Ukrainian refugees
121 字
2022 年 3 月 3 日 14:38 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Mar 3 / Agerpres / - On Thursday, President Klaus Iohannis had a telephone conversation with his Swiss counterpart, Ignazio Cassis, in which context he welcomed the opening of this country to support the humanitarian center that will be operationalized in Romania.

'Very good telephone conversation with Swiss President Ignazio Cassis regarding the coordination of actions between Switzerland [and Romania] and to severely sanction the invasion of Russia and to support Ukraine. I welcomed Switzerland's openness to support the Romanian humanitarian aid hub in helping Ukrainian refugees,' Iohannis wrote on Thursday on Twitter.AGERPRES(RO-author: Florentina Peia, editor: Mihai Simionescu; EN - author: Simona Iacob, editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220303ei33004ed


VOX BOX
Our Strength is our Unity: Putin Chose War—We Remain United with Ukraine
989 字
2022 年 3 月 3 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
Op-Ed by Chargé d’Affaires David Muniz, March 3, 2022

It is a defining moment for Europe, for freedom, and for all peace-loving nations and peoples. Through his criminal assault on the people and sovereignty of Ukraine, Vladimir Putin has also brutalized the principles that undergird global peace and democracy. But Ukrainians are known for their resilience and bravery, and they are now inspiring the world. The United States, together with our Allies and partners around the globe, will continue to support them as they defend their country. Freedom will prevail.

In choosing to finance an illegal war rather than investing in the needs of his people, Putin’s invasion will forever define strategic failure for Moscow and nadir of modern care for the Russian people. When the history of this era is written, it will show that his choice to launch an unjust and premeditated attack shattered the peace and served only to strengthen the unity among, and resolve of, every freedom loving democratic nation.

This barbarity will not end well for Vladimir Putin. Together, the United States and our Allies and partners are taking action to hold him and Russia accountable. As a result of unprecedented global sanctions coordination, the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, Japan, and Canada have removed selected Russian banks from the SWIFT messaging system and imposed restrictive measures on the Russian Central Bank. President Biden announced sweeping financial sanctions and harsh export controls that will damage Russia’s economy, financial system, and access to technology. Putin will be remembered as the despot who caused an unprecedented plummet in his nation’s currency and markets. And we and our allies are ensuring that he and his cabal personally feel the impact of every sanction and measured imposed.

In conjunction with an unrivaled coalition of Allies and partners—together representing over one-half of the global economy—we will hobble Putin and his war machine, and we will impair Russia’s ability to participate in the global economy. And we are prepared to do more.

These economic penalties are harsh, unprecedented, and entirely warranted. They also parallel President Biden’s recent authorization of an additional $350 million in security assistance. This brings America’s total security assistance to Ukraine over the past year to over $1 billion. Recent events have shown just how effective this assistance is, when it is placed in the right hands. America also, as always, stands ready to defend our NATO Allies. President Biden has coordinated with Allied governments to position thousands of additional forces in Germany and Poland as part of our commitment to NATO’s collective defense. He authorized the deployment of ground and air forces already stationed in Europe to NATO’s eastern and southeastern flanks, including here in Romania, as well as in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland. Our Allies have also added their own very formidable forces and capabilities to ensure an incredible collective defense. There should be no doubt about the readiness of the greatest military Alliance in the history of the world.

The evidence is in – this attack had been long planned. Putin deceitfully readied his forces, both regular, and mercenary to savage Ukraine, all while lying about seeking peace. He rejected every good-faith effort by the United States and our Allies and partners to address his fabricated security concerns and to avoid this entirely needless war. His bellicose plans unfolded exactly as we warned the world they would—his playbook was hardly different than when he initially attacked Ukraine in 2014 or Georgia in 2008. The United States was transparent with the world. We declassified our intelligence about Russia’s plans so there would be no confusion.

Putin failed to divide our Alliance and the friendly nations of the world. Our shared love for democratic values and peace are far stronger than he was capable of understanding or appreciating. Such is the curse of the autocrat and the despot. The United States, Romania, and our Allies now stand shoulder-to-shoulder in the face of the most significant challenge to European security and democratic ideals our world has seen in decades. This invasion will fail, and Ukraine will stand. Putin and his lackeys succeeded only in strengthening our resolve, bringing NATO closer, and showing the absolute best of our peoples. The baseless threats he issues are signs of his weakness and the Alliance’s strength.

As of this writing, Romania has aided well over tens-of-thousands of refugees fleeing Ukraine, and this number grows by the minute. International media has taken note, and the world will long remember the kindness and care the Romanians and their government showed their neighbors. From aid stations, and medical care, to first responders, the official response has been amazing, and the from-the-heart response of the Romanian citizenry has been profound. The United States has long been proud to call this nation and its citizens our friends and Allies. But even we were amazed at the outpouring of care for a neighbor. Offers of housing, food, items of daily necessity, and transportation to Bucharest and beyond have come flooding in from the Romanian public. The charity has been genuine and staggering in its proportions. Clearly, Putin’s misguided despotic dog-whistle to European nations to turn on their neighbor shows how very little he understands of the decency, law, respect, that define what Romania is, and who we all are.

The world is watching as Putin wrecks devastation on this continent. He is being held responsible and he will be held fully accountable. Ukraine did nothing to deserve this, the Ukrainian people did nothing to deserve this, and the Russian people deserve so much more from their leadership—the costs to their future are going to be immense.

Freedom will prevail.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/david-muniz.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220303ei330008d


POLITICS
The United States Continues to Target Russian Oligarchs
581 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
The United States, in coordination with Allies and partners, is targeting additional Russian elites and family members who continue supporting President Putin despite his brutal invasion of Ukraine, The White House reported. “These individuals have enriched themselves at the expense of the Russian people, and some have elevated their family members into high-ranking positions. Others sit atop Russia’s largest companies and are responsible for providing the resources necessary to support Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. These individuals and their family members will be cut off from the U.S. financial system, their assets in the United States will be frozen and their property will be blocked from use. The Department of Treasury will share financial intelligence and other evidence where appropriate with the Department of Justice to support criminal prosecutions and seizure of assets.”

One of the elites is Alisher Burhanovich Usmanov, one of Russia’s wealthiest individuals and a close ally of Putin. His property will be blocked from use in the United States and by U.S. persons – including his superyacht, one of the world’s largest, and just seized by our ally Germany, and his private jet, one of Russia’s largest privately-owned aircraft. The United States will also sanction Dmitry Peskov, who as Putin’s spokesman is a top purveyor of Putin’s propaganda. The United States will also impose visa restrictions on 19 oligarchs and 47 of their family members and close associates.

Full blocking sanctions on an expansive new list of Russian elites and their family members who enable Putin:

* Nikolai Tokarev (his wife Galina, daughter Mayya, and his two luxury real estate companies)

* Boris Rotenberg (his wife Karina, and his sons Roman and Boris)

* Arkady Rotenberg (His sons Pavel and Igor and daughter Liliya)

* Sergei Chemezov (His wife Yekaterina, his son Stanislav, and stepdaughter Anastasiya)

* Igor Shuvalov (His five companies, his wife Olga, his son Evgeny and his company and jet, and his daughter Maria and her company)

* Yevgeniy Prigozhin (His three companies, his wife, Polina, his daughter Lyubov, and his son Pavel),

* Dmitry Peskov, President Putin’s press secretary

* Alisher Usmanov (His superyacht, one of the world’s largest and just seized by our ally Germany, and his private jet, one of Russia’s largest privately-owned aircraft)

Imposing Visa Restrictions on 19 Russian Oligarchs, their 47 Family Members and Close Associates: Today the Department of State is announcing a new visa restriction policy to restrict the issuance of visas to certain Russian oligarchs, their family members, and close associates. These oligarchs are known to direct, authorize, fund, significantly support, or carry out malign activities in support of Russia’s destabilizing foreign policy. In an initial action under this policy, we have taken steps to place visa restrictions on 19 oligarchs and 47 family members and close associates.

Full blocking sanctions on disinformation targets: Treasury will designate seven Russian entities, SDN Strategic Culture Foundation and associated outlets Odna Rodyna, Rhythm of Eurasia, and Journal Kamerton; SouthFront; SDN InfoRos; New Eastern Outlook; Oriental Review; United World International; and Geopolitical. In addition, Treasury will designate 26 Russia and Ukraine-based individuals who play central roles in these organizations, enabling the Government of the Russian Federation’s efforts to spread disinformation and influence perceptions as a part of their invasion of Ukraine. These entities have spread false narratives that advance Russian strategic objectives and falsely justify the Kremlin’s activities.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/oligarch-yacht.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220304ei3400005


Live updates: Ukrainian paramedic remembered for bravery
By The Associated Press
4178 字
2022 年 3 月 6 日 03:31 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest developments on the Russia-Ukraine war[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine] :

KYIV, Ukraine — A Ukrainian paramedic who was shot while on her way to evacuate injured people from the outskirts of Kyiv was buried in the country’s capital on Saturday.

Valentyna Pushych was known locally as “Romashka,” which means “Daisy.” A friend described her as a “daredevil,” who was never afraid to “get under bullets.’

She was always “running to the most dangerous places” to rescue to the injured, Nataliia Voronkova said.

Pushych used to be a well-paid worker at a transport and logistic company. But in 2016, she joined the army as a paramedic in response to the separatist conflict in eastern Ukraine.

Several women, including some dressed in camouflage jackets, cried as her body lay in a casket at a service. A portrait of Pushych was on a wall nearby.

At the cemetery, red roses were placed on Pushych’s body. After she was buried, the dirt was covered with the flag of Ukraine.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Crowds of men have been lining up in Kyiv to join the Ukrainian army.

An order from Ukraine’s government prohibited men between the ages of 18 and 60 from leaving the country to keep them available for military conscription.

But some like Volodymyr Onysko volunteered to fight.

“We know why we are here. We know why we defend our country. And our guys that are actually standing there and fighting Russian military forces,” he told Britain’s Sky News. “We know what we are doing and that’s why we will win.”

Others, like British Army veteran Mark Ayres, travelled to Ukraine to help.

Ayres said the Ukrainian people have been inspiring and “it’s galvanized everybody.”

“I’ve got no illusions. I’ve got no romantic ideas of war or like ‘I’m going to be some hero’ or make a difference … but it is what I do,” Ayres said.

___

BEIJING — Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that China opposes any moves that “add fuel to the flames” in Ukraine.

Blinken says the world is watching to see which nations stand up for the principles of freedom and sovereignty.

The two spoke by phone on Saturday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said.

Wang called for negotiations to resolve the immediate crisis, as well as talks on creating a balanced European security mechanism. Wang says the U.S. and Europe should pay attention to the negative impact of NATO’s eastward expansion on Russia’s security.

The U.S. State Department says Blinken underscored that the world is acting in unison in response to Russian aggression and ensuring that Moscow will pay a high price.

China has broken with the U.S., Europe and others that have imposed sanctions on Russia after its invasion of Ukraine. China says that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations should be respected, but that sanctions create new issues and disrupt the process of political settlement.

___

WASHINGTON — U.S. President Joe Biden has called Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to discuss ongoing efforts to impose economic costs on Russia and to speed U.S. military, humanitarian and economic assistance to Ukraine.

The White House said the pair also discussed talks between Russia and Ukraine during the more than 30-minute call early Sunday in Ukraine, but offered no additional details.

Zelenskyy said on Twitter the two presidents discussed security, financial support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions against Russia.

___

LVIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked SpaceX chief executive Elon Musk for giving Ukraine access to his company’s satellite-internet system, called Starlink.

“I’m grateful to him for supporting Ukraine with words and deeds” Zelenskyy said in a tweet. “Next week we will receive another batch of Starlink systems for destroyed cities.” He joked that they discussed possible space projects, which he would talk about “after the war.”

Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko on Saturday showed off a shipment of the Starlink systems that had arrived in the capital city. He said Starlink would help secure the work of critical infrastructure and the defense of the city.

Several large Ukrainian cities remained without internet or phone connection after being shelled by Russian troops.

___

CHERNIHIV, Ukraine — Russia has dropped powerful bombs on residential areas of the city of Chernihiv, a regional official said Saturday.

Vyacheslav Chaus posted a photo of what he said was an undetonated FAB-500, a Soviet-designed 500-kilogram (1,100-pound) air-dropped bomb.

“Usually this weapon is used against military-industrial facilities and fortified structures,” said Chaus, head of the same-named region of Chernihiv. “But in Chernihiv, against residential areas.”

The city of Chernihiv, located north of Kyiv and with a population of 290,000, has come under heavy fire from Russian forces. Officials said 17 people in the region were killed in the shelling.

A video released Saturday by the Ukrainian government showed people cheering as they watched a Russian military plane fall from the sky and crash.

___

NEW YORK — Mastercard and Visa are suspending their operations in Russia, the companies said Saturday,

Mastercard said cards issued by Russian banks will no longer be supported by its network and any card issued outside the country will not work at Russian stores or ATMs in the latest blow to the country’s financial system after its invasion of Ukraine.

Mastercard said it made its decision after discussions with customers, partners and governments.

Visa said it’s working with clients and partners in Russia to cease all Visa transactions over the coming days.

The suspensions are a follow-up to more limited moves earlier in the week to block financial institutions from the networks that serve as arteries for the payments system. Russian people have already been hit hard by heavy sanctions and financial penalties imposed by the U.S. government and others.

___

LVIV, Ukraine — Russian forces have intensified shelling in the port city of Mariupol, including with the use of airplanes, the mayor said Saturday night.

“The city is in a very, very difficult state of siege,” Vadym Boychenko told Ukrainian TV. “Relentless shelling of residential blocks is ongoing, airplanes have been dropping bombs on residential areas."

Boychenko said that thousands of children, women and the elderly came under fire as they arrived in the morning for a possible evacuation through a safe passage corridor. Russia promised to stop the shelling of Mariupol, a port city of 430,000, and Volnovakha, a city in the east, but violated the cease-fire.

Russia has made significant advances in the south, clearly seeking to cut off Ukraine’s access to the sea. Capturing Mariupol, which has been fending off the attack for six days, could allow Russia to build a land corridor to Crimea, which it annexed in 2014.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Saturday echoed the president's assertion that Russia has lost more than 10,000 troops.

Kuleba also said in a video message released by the Ukrainian government that the Russians had lost dozens of aircraft and hundreds of armored vehicles.

The claim could not be independently verified. The Russian military doesn’t offer regular updates on their casualties. On Wednesday, military officials revealed a death toll of 498.

“Russians keep bearing devastating losses on the ground, and I cannot understand how mothers, wives and daughters of these Russian soldiers bear this pain, seeing how President Putin sends more and more of their beloved ones to Ukraine,” Kuleba said.

Kuleba added, “Ukraine is bleeding but Ukraine has not fallen and stands (with) both feet on the ground.”

___

NEW YORK — U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres says the United Nations is committed to scaling up its humanitarian operations to help both those who have stayed in Ukraine and the more than 1 million who have fled.

Guterres relayed the promise to Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba in a phone call on Saturday, U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said.

Dujarric said the two also discussed the conditions for safely evacuating civilians, including foreigners, from combat zones.

Ten days into Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, 1.45 million people have fled the battered country, according to the U.N.-affiliated Organization for Migration in Geneva. The U.N. has predicted that the total number of refugees could swell to 4 million, to become the biggest such crisis this century.

The U.N. Security Council will hold a meeting Monday afternoon on the escalating humanitarian needs that have arisen since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

___

NEW YORK — Hundreds of people rallied in New York City’s Times Square on Saturday to show solidarity with Ukraine.

Many attendees were waving Ukrainian flags or draped the flag around their shoulders at the afternoon demonstration.

Others brought signs decrying Russian President Vladimir Putin or calling for a no-fly zone to be imposed over Ukraine.

About 140,000 people of Ukrainian descent live in New York, making it the largest Ukrainian population in the U.S., according to population data from the federal government.

____

PHOENIX — An Arizona-based ammunition company is offering to donate 1 million bullets to Ukraine’s military amid Russia’s invasion of its European neighbor.

CEO Fred Wagenhals of AMMO Inc. on Friday said it was his response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s appeal for international assistance.

There was no immediate indication whether the U.S. government will approve the proposed export of the ammunition, which has a retail of about $700,000, Phoenix television station KSAZ-TV reported.

The company is based in Scottsdale, a Phoenix suburb.

___

MARIUPOL, Ukraine — Doctors relied on light filtering in through windows and emitted from cellphones to tend to wounded Ukrainian soldiers Saturday at a hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, where a promised cease-fire collapsed.

Dr. Evgeniy said the hospital had no power or heat. Patients were lined up in beds along the corridors, and some people were curled up on the floor to protect themselves.

“We have some issues with supplies, not enough analgesics,” Dubrov said. “We’ve worked more than a week without a break.”

A soldier, Svyatoslav Borodin, said a blast blurred his vision, and he thought he might have lost his legs. Another soldier applied a tourniquet.

“Scary,” he said. “Very scary.”

In the city of Irpin, near Kyiv, a sea of people on foot and in wheelbarrows trudged over the remains of a destroyed bridge to cross a river and evacuate.

Assisted by Ukrainian soldiers, they lugged pets, infants, purses and flimsy bags stuffed with minimal possessions. Some of the weak and elderly were carried along the path in blankets and carts.

___

SIRET, Romania — Romanian President Klaus Iohannis visited a refugee camp in Siret on Saturday and declared that no Ukrainian would be denied entry to his country.

He pledged food, clothing, transportation and help with personal documents.

“It is a situation that no Ukrainian and no Romanian wanted, but we are very determined to deal with it here in Romania, as it should be,” Iohannis said.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — The next round of talks between Ukraine and Russia will be held on Monday, Ukrainian official Davyd Arakhamia said Saturday.

Arakhamia is head of the parliamentary faction of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s Servant of the People party and a member of Ukraine’s delegation at the talks.

Monday's will be the third round of talks as the two sides try to negotiate a cease-fire and safe passage corridors for civilians.

___

LVIV, Ukraine — Russian forces have now seized two Ukrainian nuclear power plants and are advancing toward a third, Ukraine’s president said during a call with U.S. senators Saturday.

Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the third plant currently under threat is the Yuzhnoukrainsk nuclear power plant, located 120 kilometers (75 miles) north of Mykolaiv, one of several cities the Russians were trying to keep encircled Saturday.

One of the plants under the Russians' control is the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant in the southeastern city of Enerhodar, the biggest nuclear power plant in Europe. The other is Chernobyl, which is not active but is still staffed and maintained. Previous Russian shelling sparked a fire at the Zaporizhzhia plant that was extinguished without a release of radiation.

Technical safety systems are intact and radiation levels are still normal at the Zaporizhzhia plant, according to the country’s nuclear regulator, the International Atomic Energy Agency said Saturday.

Ukraine has four nuclear plants with a total of 15 reactors.

___

WASHINGTON — Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy urged U.S. lawmakers to sanction Russia’s oil and gas sector and suspend credit card access, and backed an idea to ban Russian oil imports to the U.S. that’s been gaining support in Congress.

Sen. Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina, said Zelenskyy emphasized during a private call Saturday with the U.S. lawmakers that the energy sector needs to be sanctioned.

“Anything that could hurt the Russian economy will help the Ukrainian people and may make this war more difficult” for Russian President Vladimir Putin, Graham said in a video.

During the call, Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia asked Zelenskyy about the idea of banning Russian oil to the U.S., according to two people granted anonymity to discuss the private call.

Zelenskyy indicated he was 100% on board with banning Russian oil to the U.S. and told the senators it would be very helpful, the people said.

Zelensky also asked them to suspend access to Visa and Mastercard credit cards in Russia, according to another person granted anonymity to discuss the call.

___

Associated Press writers Lisa Mascaro, Michael Balsamo and Mary Clare Jalonick in Washington contributed to this report.

___

JERUSALEM — Israel’s prime minister met with Russian President Vladimir Putin for several hours in Moscow on Saturday.

Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett's office confirmed the meeting at the Kremlin, which came just days after Bennett spoke over the phone with both Russian and Ukrainian leaders.

Bennett's office said he departed early Saturday morning for Moscow, accompanied by Russian-speaking Cabinet minister Zeev Elkin, who was born in Ukraine. Both men are observant Jews and wouldn’t normally travel on the Sabbath.

Israel is one of the few countries that has good working relations with both sides. The country has delivered humanitarian aid to Ukraine, but also maintains ties with Moscow to make sure that Israeli and Russian warplanes do not come into conflict in neighboring Syria.

The meeting ended after about three hours, according to an Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity. The official said the meeting was coordinated with the U.S., Germany and France and that Bennett “is in ongoing dialogue with Ukraine.”

—-

Associated Press writer Ilan Ben Zion in Jerusalem contributed to this report.

___

CAIRO — Egypt says it has transferred to Europe about 4,000 Ukrainian tourists who were stranded in the Middle Eastern nation after Russia invaded their country.

The tourists were brought to countries neighboring Ukraine on free flights operated by state-run airliners, and more flights are scheduled in the coming days, government spokesman Nader Saad said Saturday. He did not elaborate.

Following Russia’s invasion and the closure of Ukrainian airspace, the Egyptian government has allowed Ukrainian tourists to extend their stay for free in hotels and resorts, Saad said.

Ukraine’s embassy in Cairo has said there were about 20,000 Ukrainian tourists in Egypt, a touristic hub for tourists from eastern Europe and Russia.

___

WASHINGTON — A Russian airliner has received an exception to the U.S. airspace ban in order to return Russian diplomats expelled from the U.S to Russia.

The Ilyushin Il-62 is flying from St. Petersburg to Washington Dulles International Airport outside the U.S. Capitol. A U.S. government official confirmed it had been granted a waiver from the airspace restriction put in place in retaliation for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in order to retrieve the Russian diplomats.

The U.S. expelled 12 Russians at its mission to the United Nations accusing them of being intelligence operatives.

__

Associated Press writer Zeke Miller in Wilmington, Delaware, contributed to this report.

___

LONDON — Ukraine’s foreign minister on Saturday criticized Shell for continuing to buy Russian oil, lashing out at the energy giant for continuing to do business with Vladimir Putin’s regime after the company announced it was exiting investments in Russia.

Dmytro Kuleba said he had been told Shell “discreetly” bought the oil on Friday. He appealed to the public to pressure the company and other international firms to halt such purchases in light of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Earlier this week, Shell said it was “shocked by the loss of life in Ukraine” and would end its joint ventures with Gazprom, the massive oil and gas company that is controlled by the Russian government.

Shell on Saturday said it has already stopped “most activities involving Russian oil,” although it continues to buy some products from Russia to supply the needs of its refineries and chemical plants. These purchases are necessary to ensure fuel supplies for customers, Shell said.

___

WASHINGTON — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a “desperate plea” to U.S. senators on Saturday to send more planes to help the country fight the Russian invasion.

Zelenskyy made the request on a call joined by more than 300 people, including senators, some House lawmakers and aides.

Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, said in a statement that Zelenskyy made a “desperate plea for Eastern European countries to provide Russian-made planes to Ukraine."

“I will do all I can to help the administration to facilitate their transfer,” Schumer said.

Schumer told Zelenskyy the U.S. lawmakers are inspired by him and by the strength and courage of the Ukrainian people, according to another person on the call who was granted anonymity to discuss it.

The U.S. Congress also is working on a $10 billion package of military and humanitarian aide, and Schumer told Zelenskyy that lawmakers hope to send it quickly to Ukraine, the person said.

Zelenskyy told senators he needs planes and drones more than other security tools, according to a senior Senate aide granted anonymity to discuss the private meeting.

___

Associated Press reporter Lisa Mascaro in Washington contributed to this report.

___

WASHINGTON — The U.S. State Department has updated an earlier travel advisory and is now recommending that U.S. citizens leave Russia immediately.

The notice offers this guidance: “If you wish to depart Russia, you should make arrangements on your own as soon as possible. If you plan to stay in Russia, understand the U.S. Embassy has severe limitations on its ability to assist U.S. citizens, and conditions, including transportation options, may change suddenly.”

The department already has advised Americans not to travel to Russia. That warning cites “the unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces in Ukraine” and “the potential for harassment against U.S. citizens by Russian government security officials,” among other things.

——

TIRANA, Albania — Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama said he spoke by phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Saturday to express his country's support.

Albania has joined the European Union in imposing hard-hitting sanctions against Russia's top officials and institutions.

The country is also collecting and sending assistance to the Ukrainian refugees.

Albanian Foreign Minister Olta Xhacka, meanwhile, vehemently shot down Russian President Vladimir Putin's assertsions that Albanian mercenaries are operating in Ukraine, calling it “a lie that Moscow keeps repeating shamelessly!”

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces were holding key cities in the central and southeastern part of the country Saturday, while the Russians were trying to block and keep encircled Kharkiv, Mykolaiv, Chernihiv and Sumy.

“We’re inflicting losses on the occupants they could not see in their worst nightmare,” Zelenskyy said. He alleged that 10,000 Russian troops were killed in the 10 days of the war, a claim that could not be independently verified. The Russian military doesn't offer regular updates on their casualties. Only once, on Wednesday, they revealed a death toll of nearly 500.

“This is horrible,” Zelenskyy said. “Guys 18, 20 years old ... soldiers who weren’t even explained what they were going to fight for.”

___

WARSAW, Poland — The head of Ukraine’s Supreme Court has appealed for Russia’s top court to be excluded from a body of Central and Eastern Europe’s chief justices because of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Ukraine’s top court president, Vsevolod Kniaziev, said the Supreme Court of Russia should be excluded from the Conference of Chief Justices of Central & Eastern Europe “as it represents a country that brought terror, death and crimes against humanity in Ukraine.”

Kniaziev’s letter of appeal was received Saturday by Malgorzata Manowska, the president of the Supreme Court in Poland, which borders Ukraine.

___

NEW YORK -- Russian President Vladimir Putin says there is nothing that warrants imposing martial law in Russia at this point.

Putin’s comment on Saturday followed days of speculation that the introduction of martial law could be imminent.

Putin said that “martial law is imposed in a country ... in the event of external aggression, including in specific areas of hostilities. But we don’t have such a situation, and I hope we won’t.”

——

ROME — Italian state broadcaster Rai is suspending reporting by its correspondents in Russia.

Rai's measure, effective Saturday, follows similar moves by some other foreign media. Rai said the measure is necessary to “safeguard the safety of its journalists in the place as well as the maximum freedom of information about the country."

Russia on Friday passed a law foreseeing prison sentences of up to 15 years for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about its armed forces.

——

NEW YORK — Russian President Vladimir Putin says Moscow would consider any third-party declaration of a no-fly zone over Ukraine as “participation in the armed conflict.”

Speaking at a meeting with female pilots on Saturday, Putin said Russia would view “any move in this direction” as an intervention that “will pose a threat to our service members.”

“That very second, we will view them as participants of the military conflict, and it would not matter what members they are,” the Russian president said.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has pushed NATO to impose a no-fly zone over his country, warning that “all the people who die from this day forward will also die because of you.”

NATO has said a no-fly zone, which would bar all unauthorized aircraft from flying over Ukraine, could provoke widespread war in Europe with nuclear-armed Russia.

——

BERLIN -- The U.N. human rights office says it has confirmed the deaths of 351 civilians in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began.

The Geneva-based office said that another 707 civilians were injured between Feb. 24 and midnight Friday.

The rights office uses strict methodology and only reports casualties it has confirmed. It said Saturday it believes the real figures are considerably higher, “especially in government-controlled territory and especially in recent days,” as the receipt of information from some places where there was intense fighting was delayed and many reports were still undergoing corroboration.

Ukrainian officials have presented far higher numbers.

——

NEW YORK — Aeroflot, Russia’s flagship carrier, has announced that it will halt all international flights except to Belarus starting March 8.

The move by Russia’s biggest state-owned airline comes after the country’s aviation agency, Rosaviatsiya, recommended that all Russian airlines with foreign-leased planes halt both passenger and cargo flights abroad.

It cited a high risk of foreign-leased planes being impounded as part of Western sanctions that ban leasing of planes to Russia.

Rosaviatsiya’s recommendation doesn’t apply to Russian airlines that use Russian planes or foreign planes that aren't at risk of being impounded. Aeroflot's statement Saturday cited “circumstances that hinder operating flights” as a reason for its move.

Another Russian airline, low-cost carrier Pobeda, said Saturday that also would halt all international flights starting March 8.

——

BERLIN -- German public broadcasters ARD and ZDF say they are suspending reporting from their Moscow studios after Russia passed a law foreseeing prison sentences of up to 15 years for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about its armed forces.

The measure was signed into law by President Vladimir Putin on Friday and already prompted some foreign media including the BBC and Bloomberg to say they were suspending operations within Russia.

ARD and ZDF said in a statement that they are examining the consequences of the new legislation and suspending reporting from the Moscow studios for now.

The passing of the law comes amid a broader crackdown on media outlets and social media in Russia.

___

Follow AP’s coverage of the tensions between Russia and Ukraine at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: This version has been updated with new photos.; AP Video.; With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220305ei3500dkx


EDITORIAL
Ukraine conflict stalls the automotive industry’s engine
1014 字
2022 年 3 月 8 日
Nine O'Clock Online
NINEOC
英文
Copyright 2022. Nineoclock.ro. All rights reserved.
Macro commentary by eToro analyst for Romania, Bogdan Maioreanu

The car manufacturing industry worldwide is bracing for bigger issues following the Russia – Ukraine conflict. The globalization of production, with part of it being in the conflict region, is breaking up supply chains and is halting production of cars inside and outside Russia and Ukraine. Reports are foreseeing a worsening of the electronic chips crisis since some crucial raw materials are coming from the region. The fear of stagflation might also hinder automotive sales by postponing unessential purchases.

Due to a lack of parts from Ukraine-based suppliers, including Fujikura, Nexans and Leoni that produce essential wire harnesses for the German cars, the production of Audi A4 and A5 models at Audi’s home plant in Ingolstadt, Germany, is suspended[https://europe.autonews.com/automakers/audi-cut-german-production-due-ukraine-crisis?utm_source=daily&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=20220303&utm_content=article5-headline] from March 7-11. In Neckarsulm, production of A6 and A7 models is paused from March 7-18. Audi has also imposed an order freeze[https://www.automobilwoche.de/article/20220304/BCONLINE/220309965/1279/durch-russland-krieg-verschaerfte-liefersituation-audi-verhaengt-bestellstopp-fuer-hybrid-modelle] for its hybrid models because of production interruptions, with Porsche suspending Macan, Panamera output, while the BMW Group is halting[https://europe.autonews.com/automakers/bmws-european-production-takes-big-hit-ukraine-crisis-supply-disruption] production at plants in Munich and in Dingolfing, both Germany, next week, as well as output at the group’s Mini factory in Oxford, England. Mercedes-Benz expects to reduce[https://europe.autonews.com/automakers/mercedes-forced-cut-shifts-european-plants] production at some of its European plants as supplies of parts produced in Ukraine run short. Ukraine hosts[https://ukraineinvest.gov.ua/industries/automotive/] more than 20 global automotive companies like Bosch, Fujikura, Eurocar, Prettl, Aptiv and more than 30 automotive plants. There are over 60,000 employees in the Ukrainian automotive industry. While most of the companies are located close to the western border with Hungary, Slovakia and Poland, still outside of the military operation zones, the conflict already disrupted[https://europe.autonews.com/automakers/how-russias-invasion-ukraine-impacting-auto-industry] supply.

In the longer term the crisis in Ukraine has the potential to worsen the chip crisis. A grim estimation[https://www.commerce.gov/news/blog/2022/01/secretary-raimondo-announces-results-request-information-semiconductor-supply] of the Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo finds that “median inventory of chips has fallen from 40 days in 2019 to less than five days.” This means that if something disrupts a foreign semiconductor facility for even just a few weeks, it has the potential to shut down manufacturing facilities in the US and not only. The chips manufacturer Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSM[https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/TSM?p=TSM&.tsrc=fin-srch]) that represents 50% of the global pure wafer foundry market declared[https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202202250028] that it will observe Russia sanctions. But Russia accounts for 42 percent of palladium, 70 percent of neon, 40 percent of nitrogen and 30 percent of xenon global exports which are critical ingredients of semiconductor production. If Moscow retaliates by stopping exports, the world’s semiconductor industry will be affected. Experts estimate that Taiwan had diversified its sourcing for these ingredients and had already stockpiled inventory. According[https://criticalmaterials.org/2022-techcet-news/] to research company Techcet, the 2022 Electronic Gas market is expected to top US$7 billion, driven mainly by logic chip fab expansions. There are other sources for the raw materials than Russia and Ukraine. However, in a global market if one supplier is cut off, other suppliers get the opportunity to raise prices. Palladium prices exceeded[https://tradingeconomics.com/commodity/palladium] 3000 USD per ounce already, the highest price ever. The cost of materials doesn’t automatically get passed on to consumers, but if the shortage is long and severe enough that automakers decide to or are forced to make fewer vehicles the prices for vehicles would go up.

Following the conflict and sanctions, several[https://techcrunch.com/2022/03/03/these-are-all-the-automakers-that-have-pulled-out-russian-operations/] car makers like Renault, Toyota, Volkswagen, Mitsubishi paused production at car factories in Russia while Volvo, Daimler stopped producing trucks. The impact of these measures for the large automobiles manufacturers is so far limited despite losses in business and stock prices but for the Russian automotive industry they are very important. Days before the military conflict in Ukraine started, the Association of Russian Automakers was publishing[http://www.oar-info.ru/index.php?id=522] the car sales in January when 85.002 units were sold. The top selling car was Lada – manufactured in Renault controlled factories AvtoVaz -, followed by KIA, Hyundai and Renault. In 2021, almost 1.5 million cars were sold[https://cloud.mail.ru/public/g4RF/soTf34PKA] in Russia out of which 2131 electric vehicles. 52.6% of the cars were SUVs followed by 34% cars from the B and B+ class. In the SUV department, the most sold was Dacia Duster with 40662 units, followed by Toyota RAV 4 – 37212 and Volkswagen Tiguan with 28504 units. The most sold electric car last year was Porsche Taycan followed by Tesla Model 3 and Audi e-Tron. As for trucks, 6294 were sold in 2021, an almost 29% increase year on year. The top was dominated by the Russian brands, Kamaz, GAZ and Ural followed by Volvo, Scania Mercedes, but the Western brands were only 44% of total sold trucks. In 2020 the automotive industry contributed nearly one percent to Russia’s GDP, while its share in all engineering industries amounted to nearly 40%. The sanction and production cuts will affect the 320,000 people employed directly in the industry and more than 3.5 million employees in connected industries like material manufacture, vehicle operation, maintenance and repair.

* Bogdan Maioreanu, eToro analyst and markets commentator, has over 20 years of experience in financial services and investments and a strong background in journalism. He held different Corporate Banking management positions in both Raiffeisen Bank and OTP Bank, before moving to business consultancy roles working for IBM Romania among others. Bogdan is an Executive MBA from Asebuss and Washington University.

About eToro Group

eToro is a multi-asset investment platform that empowers people to grow their knowledge and wealth as part of a global community of successful investors. eToro was founded in 2007 with the vision of opening up the global markets so that everyone can trade and invest in a simple and transparent way. Today, eToro is a global community of more than 27 million registered users who share their investment strategies; and anyone can follow the approaches of those who have been the most successful. Due to the simplicity of the platform users can easily buy, hold and sell assets, monitor their portfolio in real time, and transact whenever they want.

Click to view image[https://www.nineoclock.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/pag-5-etoro-Poza-Bogdan-Maioreanu-scaled.jpg]

Cristiana Invest Press SRL

文件 NINEOC0020220308ei380002v


Russian forces north-west of Kyiv have made "little progress" and are "suffering...
10098 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日 20:37 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Russian forces north-west of Kyiv have made "little progress" and are "suffering continued losses" at the hands of the Ukrainian military, a Ministry of Defence update said.

A "notable decrease in overall Russian air activity" over Ukraine has been noted in recent days, "likely due to the unexpected effectiveness and endurance" of Kyiv's air defences, it added.

The update also accused Russia of deploying conscript troops to Ukraine and said Vladimir Putin will have to draw from across his forces "and other sources to replace his losses".

A senior Tory MP has accused a colleague of spouting "utterly risible, illiterate, immoral and offensive bile" over Ukrainian refugees.

Simon Hoare, the chair of the Commons Northern Ireland Committee, told Daniel Kawczynski in a tweet that he does "not speak for the Tory party".

He was responding to Mr Kawcyznski tweeting: "British Left wing parties demand Britain takes in more Ukrainian refugees. This is illiterate and immoral.

"When war is over Ukrainians will need to return home to rebuild their country. We should be supporting Ukrainian refugees in frontline states like Poland & Romania."

The executive chairman of a major advertising agency has said it will be "very difficult for brands to remain in Russia", particularly as the atrocities committed in Ukraine worsen.

S4Capital's Sir Martin Sorrell told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think given what we're seeking in Ukraine and the barbaric acts we're seeing, and the atrocities we're seeing, I think it's very difficult for brands to remain in Russia.

"The argument is that you don't penalise the population but ultimately the only way of solving this absent of the negotiations that are going on at the moment is China intervening or there being some internal regime change inside Russia.

"Increased economic pressure might achieve that. So I think, as a result, what we've seen in particular in the last few days, and the bombing of a hospital in Mariupol being a particular atrocity, I think it's very difficult for brands to maintain their position."

Sir Keir Starmer has been greeted by Estonian defence minister Kalle Laanet at the country's ministry of defence in Tallinn.

The Labour leader shook hands with Mr Laanet ahead of a visit to Tapa military base further east where he will meet Nato troops.

His visit to the country, which shares a 180-mile border with Russia to the east, marks day 15 of Putin's invasion of Ukraine.

UK Armed Forces minister James Heappey said he was "hugely concerned" at warnings from the Biden administration that Russia might seek to use chemical weapons in Ukraine.

He told BBC Radio Scotland's Good Morning Scotland programme: "We in London read exactly the same intelligence as Washington did, and I think it's right that the Americans have declassified that intelligence in order to, frankly, call President Putin out on this and to deter him from doing so.

"He needs to be absolutely clear that the use of chemical weapons is utterly abhorrent.

"What we're seeing on our TV screens at the moment is bad enough. When you are launching artillery strikes against maternity hospitals, that is lower than low. "

He added: "If he were to launch chemical weapons that would be a whole other order of magnitude."

Asked whether there has been any mention that smaller nuclear weapons could also be deployed, he said: "Of course, that is a very, very small possibility because they exist in the Russian arsenal, but to be clear that is not the threat that we are particularly worried about.

"I don't think that they are currently in the Russian mind but it would be wrong of me to say that, of course, we are not aware of that as a threat."

He said that the huge amounts of massed artillery are a more pressing concern.

At least 17 people, including pregnant woman and doctors, have been injured after a maternity hospital was bombed in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, the deputy mayor of the city has said.

Sergei Orlov told the Today programme on BBC Radio 4: "The last information that we have about victims is that most of the visitors were in a bomb shelter.

"That's why we have information about 17 injured people - and that's mostly pregnant women and doctors who work in this hospital.

"We don't have information about children, but the information is being collected at the moment."

Defence minister James Heappey said British troops will assist Ukrainian visa applications in Poland, but the Home Office believes it can cope with applications in France.

He told Sky News: "We're not sending any to Calais.

"I met with the immigration minister yesterday and their feeling is the visa applications centre in northern France are centres they can reinforce themselves.

"What they've asked us to do is to supply manpower to Poland, which is the busiest of the visa application centres by some margin.

"We're in the process of making that happen and we'll help out in any way we can."

The Russian army knew that they were bombing a maternity hospital in Mariupol, the deputy mayor of the city has claimed.

Sergei Orlov told the Today programme on BBC Radio 4: "I am absolutely sure that they know about this facility.

"This is the third hospital that they have destroyed in the city. The previous day they destroyed hospital number nine by artillery shelling. This was a Covid hospital with 300 beds.

"They have also attacked and destroyed a blood collection station in Mariupol. So, it is the third hospital, I'm absolutely sure they know what are their targets."

Defence minister James Heappey said Home Secretary Priti Patel is considering changing the visa processes and the checks required for Ukrainian refugees to come to the UK.

He told Sky News: "There's effectively two sides to what can be done to bring refugees here more quickly.

"There's a policy choice around the checks that we go through, but equally you can increase the capacity of the pipeline to process more people more quickly.

"We'll supply as many people as they need in order to be able to get the highest number of people processed in the quickest time possible and then the Home Secretary has got some choices, which I know she's considering, around how to further change the visa process and what checks might be necessary within it."

Defence minister James Heappey warned British troops who go AWOL to fight in Ukraine risk Russia wrongly accusing the UK of being "a belligerent" in the war.

Addressing the service people, he told Sky News: "They will be in an awful lot of trouble. To be clear, the Army has put out a statement overnight to say this. It is illegal for British service personnel to first of all go absent without leave in the first place, but to go absent without leave in order to fight in a foreign war is simply unacceptable, and frankly risks the United Kingdom being wrongly claimed by Russia to be a belligerent in this.

"Service people who might think they are doing the right thing should reflect it is 100% not the correct thing to be doing.

"I'd go further and say it's not just the very small number of soldiers who have gone AWOL apparently to go fight in Ukraine, I would say to the wider veterans community I know ... you accept the unlimited liability in the service of your country to stand up for what's right in the world, that there's a thing deep inside you as a soldier that makes you see TV images and makes you want to go and fight for what's right, but no good comes from British service people or veterans going to Ukraine to be a part of this."

He told Times Radio a "very small number" of British troops, around three or four troops is the number he has heard, have gone to Ukraine.

Defence minister James Heappey has accused Russia of committing a war crime by striking a hospital in Mariupol.

He told BBC Breakfast: "We ask ourselves the question how did this happen? Was it an indiscriminate use of artillery or missiles into a built-up area, or was a hospital explicitly targeted?

"Both are equally despicable, both, as the Ukrainians have pointed out, would amount to a war crime.

"So, what matters beyond the outrage of the fact that this has happened in the first place is to make sure all this is catalogued so when - and they surely will be - President Putin and everybody in the military chain of command beneath him - because war crimes are committed at every level not just the ultimate decisionmaker - people will be held to account for what they are doing in. It's utterly despicable."

Pressed on whether he thinks the attack constitutes a war crime, he replied: "Yes, if you deliberately target a piece of civilian infrastructure like a hospital, yes.

"If you use indiscriminate artillery into an urban area without due regard for the reality, you could hit a protected site like a hospital, then that too in my view is."

Defence minister James Heappey said Priti Patel must decide how to reduce the bureaucracy of security checks for Ukrainian refugees while balancing the "risk".

He told BBC Breakfast: "In a broad brush, I would say that there are lots of things that you could choose to do from a policy perspective, I think the Home Secretary has to weigh that up against risk.

"A lot of people have made the point this is very different to Afghanistan, this is predominantly a refugee flow of women and children because fighting-age men have remained in Ukraine to fight.

"I know the Home Secretary is very aware of that but she needs to make decisions around how to change visa policy and, crucially, the security checks that are done within visa policy in a way that still gives her the assurance that she needs that at a time of acute competition in Europe between the West and Russia we're not making the mistake of dropping our guard altogether.

"The Home Secretary is very much aware of the need to remove as much bureaucracy as she can but she does have to balance that against the risk, and I know that she'll make the right decision."

Sir Keir Starmer has said Labour "stands steadfast in solidarity with Ukraine" ahead of his visit to Tapa military base in Estonia.

After meeting Estonian defence minister Kalle Laanet, the Labour leader tweeted: "Today, @JohnHealey_MP and I are in Estonia, to meet with our allies and British troops.

"Labour stands steadfast in solidarity with Ukraine and we are committed to supporting our Nato allies."

Defence minister James Heappey warned Russian President Vladimir Putin that the use of chemical weapons has "triggered an international response" in the past.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I don't think it's helpful to get into any firm commitment right now about where that red line sits, but I think President Putin needs to be very clear that when other countries have used chemical weapons it has caused an international response.

"I think he should reflect very urgently on what has happened to other countries where they have used them."

He added: "President Putin needs to be clear that the use of chemical weapons is just the most despicable thing that anybody can imagine.

"As horrid as the pictures we are seeing on our TV screens today of an artillery strike against a hospital (are), they are but nothing by comparison to the suffering and devastation that chemical weapons cause."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer and shadow defence secretary John Healey have arrived at the Tapa military base in Estonia.

They were greeted by troops playing the bagpipes and will be meeting Colonel Dai Bevan, Commander of the Nato Enhanced Forward Presence, this afternoon.

A Home Office minister will be called to the Commons to explain the visas situation.

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper has been granted an urgent question on the ongoing barriers facing Ukrainians seeking to flee the war zone and come to the UK.

Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich has been added to the UK's sanctions list, Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said.

She said Vladimir Putin's attacks on Ukraine involved "new levels of evil by the hour" and the Government had announced further sanctions "against individuals linked to the Russian Government".

"This list includes Roman Abramovich, the owner of Chelsea Football Club," she said.

She acknowledged this would have an impact on the premiership side but a special licence would enable it to continue operating.

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said on Twitter: "Our priority is to hold those who have enabled the Putin regime to account.

"Today's sanctions obviously have a direct impact on Chlesea & its fans. We have been working hard to ensure the club & the national game are not unnecessarily harmed by these important sanctions.

"To ensure the club can continue to compete and operate we are issuing a special licence that will allow fixtures to be fulfilled, staff to be paid and existing ticket holders to attend matches while, crucially, depriving Abramovich of benefiting from his ownership of the club.

"I know this brings some uncertainty, but the Government will work with the league & clubs to keep football being played while ensuring sanctions hit those intended. Football clubs are cultural assets and the bedrock of our communities. We're committed to protecting them."

Other oligarchs have been sanctioned alongside Roman Abramovich, including Oleg Deripaska - an industrialist worth £2 billion who has had close links with the British political establishment.

The list includes:

- Roman Abramovich: owner of Chelsea FC and has stakes in steel giant Evraz and Norilsk Nickel.

- Oleg Deripaska: has stakes in En+ Group.

- Igor Sechin: chief executive of Rosneft.

- Andrey Kostin: chairman of VTB bank.

- Alexei Miller: CEO of energy company Gazprom.

- Nikolai Tokarev: president of the Russia state-owned pipeline company Transneft.

- Dmitri Lebedev: chairman of the Board of Directors of Bank Rossiya.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: "There can be no safe havens for those who have supported Putin's vicious assault on Ukraine.

"Today's sanctions are the latest step in the UK's unwavering support for the Ukrainian people. We will be ruthless in pursuing those who enable the killing of civilians, destruction of hospitals and illegal occupation of sovereign allies."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "Today's sanctions show once again that oligarchs and kleptocrats have no place in our economy or society. With their close links to Putin they are complicit in his aggression.

"The blood of the Ukrainian people is on their hands. They should hang their heads in shame.

"Our support for Ukraine will not waver. We will not stop in this mission to ramp up the pressure on the Putin regime and choke off funds to his brutal war machine."

Sir Keir Starmer has told Nato troops in Estonia that "the eyes of the world are upon you" as he visited Tapa military base with shadow defence secretary John Healey.

Surrounded by tanks including one draped with a Union flag, Sir Keir thanked soldiers for providing "reassurance" through their presence at the base in the country bordering Russia.

He added that "there is no time for party politics" because the world faces "a very grave situation" amid Putin's invasion of Ukraine.

Home Secretary Priti Patel said she had received assurances on security matters which enabled her to make changes to the Ukrainian family scheme, telling the Commons: "From Tuesday, I can announce that Ukrainians with passports will no longer need to go to a visa application centre to give their biometrics before they come to the UK.

"Instead, once their application has been considered and appropriate checks completed, they will receive direct notification that they're eligible for the scheme and can come to the UK.

"In short, Ukrainians with passports will be able to get permission to come here fully online from wherever they are and will be able to give their biometrics once in Britain.

"This will mean that visa application centres across Europe can focus their efforts on helping Ukrainians without passports."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy welcomed the sanctioning of Roman Abramovich "at last".

The Labour MP said in a statement: "At last! This is the right decision. But it should not have taken the Government weeks.

"Too few oligarchs linked to Putin's rogue regime have so far faced sanctions from the UK Government. We are lagging far behind allies in the EU and the US.

"It is right that, under pressure from Labour, the Government U-turned to strengthen sanctions legislation. Ministers must now move faster to continue to close the sanctions gap."

Labour shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper asked if the Government would utilise the armed forces to set up emergency centres to help bring people to the UK.

"Why does it always take being hauled into the House of Commons to make basic changes to help vulnerable people who are fleeing from Ukraine?" she asked.

She added: "It is welcome that she's now introducing the online approach, that we know they tried different ways of doing for the Hong Kong visas, but why has it taken so long when she has had intelligence for weeks, if not months, that she needed to prepare for a Russian invasion of Ukraine?

"Why still if we've still got to wait until Tuesday for this new system to come in, what is to happen for everybody else in the meantime? Why is she not bringing in the armed forces?

"They've offered to help. We've had a thousand troops on stand-by to provide humanitarian help for two weeks, so why not use them now to set up the emergency centres and to get people passported through as rapidly as possible and get them into the country?"

Labour shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said the UK's response to people fleeing Ukraine has been "shameful".

She asked in the Commons: "Is this still just being restricted to those with family? Are they still going to have to fill in multiple online forms, or would she now say that all those who want to come to the UK who have fled the fighting in Ukraine can now come here without having to fill in loads of online forms or jump through a whole load of hoops?

"This has just been shameful, making vulnerable people push from pillar to post in their hour of need, week after week we have seen this happen. It is deeply wrong to leave people in this terrible state. Our country is better than this, if she can't get this sorted out, frankly she should hand the job over to somebody else who can."

The Home Secretary faced calls from her own back benches to set up more processing centres in the UK specifically for elderly and vulnerable Ukrainians fleeing war.

Conservative former minister Harriett Baldwin said: "I want to make a further suggestion, a practical one I hope, that could alleviate the situation. The House of Commons library says that there are 35,000 Ukrainian citizens here in the UK.

"I know that they are sick to death of worrying for their elderly mothers, babies, grandchildren and so on.

"Would it not be possible for us to have a hub for them here in the UK where everything could be done from here and they could be given provisional visas to come into the country, and then we check the biometrics here?"

Priti Patel said: "We are actually doing this across the country now. Yesterday I was in Manchester, we are working with the Ukrainian community groups there and also in Derby and, in fact, there is a whole network of the Ukrainian diaspora."

She added the Ukrainian community had "asked to have hubs in community centres" in the UK, telling MPs: "We are establishing that, but we are working with the community to do that."

Home Secretary Priti Patel said visa applications are important to provide verification of status and invoked the Windrush scandal as a situation to be avoided.

She said the Home Office was intending to give a statement on Thursday morning on the issue and said: "I've always maintained that we would take a pragmatic and agile approach to our response.

"We are making important changes. She (Yvette Cooper ) has asked why are not making these changes immediately - they are subject to digital verification and there is no comparison to MNO (British National Overseas) schemes whatsoever because 90% of Ukrainians do not have chipped passports, so they would be excluded."

She said: "Visa applications are important in terms of this process, and what we are seeing, and it is important that we're flexible in our response and we have been."

She added: "I think this country, and all governments including a probably a government that she once served in, will recognise that there was something known as the Windrush scandal and it's important that everyone arrives into the UK has physical and digital records of their status here in the UK to ensure that they are accessible to schemes.

"The process is absolutely vital in terms of the verification, notification and permission to travel, but importantly to give people the status when they come to the United Kingdom to have that right to work, the right to access and benefits, and also the digital verification of their status."

Many Ukrainians fleeing war want to "stay in the region" and eventually go home instead of travelling to the UK and further afield, Priti Patel has agreed.

Conservative former minister Andrew Mitchell said: "Of course, she is right that many of the people who are fleeing from this appalling murder and mayhem, from war crimes, and from breaches of the international rules of war, they want to remain as close as possible to the areas from which they have been driven, so that when this appalling catastrophe is over they can return.

"Will she keep in touch with our European partners on both their practices and procedures so that we can help these desperate people, who our constituents are rightly intent on us assisting, and to ensure that we are part of a co-ordinated and effective European response to this horrendous humanitarian crisis?"

Priti Patel replied: "He is absolutely right both in his comments but also in terms of the co-ordinated approach that must be taken.

"It is very clear that families want to stay in the region. On a daily basis I am receiving calls from my counterparts from ministers of the interior in the region who are asking for aid to support those families who wish to stay in the region because they want to go back home, that is a really important point to make.

"The ambassadors in the region are saying this as well."

Labour chair of the home affairs committee Dame Diana Johnson pressed the Home Secretary on why the company subcontracted by her department to carry out biometric checks is "allowed to profit from the suffering and misery of Ukrainians".

She told MPs: "I want to ask her about TLSc (TLScontact) subcontracted by the Home Office to carry out biometric checks.

"The chief inspector of borders and immigration told the Home Secretary that TLSc, the TLSc contract was so hell-bent on making profit that its use posed a risk of reputational damage to the UK.

"Now, with Ukrainians fleeing for their lives and the chaos at the visa application centres with long waits and few appointments, can the Secretary of State tell me why this company is allowed to profit from the suffering and misery of Ukrainians by offering them, if they make additional payments, their cases will be expedited, they'll be given quicker appointments. Is that right?"

Priti Patel replied: "No. Let me just share the information that I know about the contracted service with TLS. First and foremost, that we have surge capacity, and I've said this several times in the House. We have visa application centres and that is a contractual process that we have, alongside working with Home Office staff in country and further staff have been sent out.

"She has asked specifically about the contractual arrangements with TLS. Our priority has been to surge their staff in country to create more appointments and we have surged appointments. There have been 6,000 appointments available this week. As of Tuesday 15, there'll be 13,000 appointments with people that don't have documentation passports."

The Home Secretary added: "With regards to Ukrainian individuals, family nationals, Ukrainian nationals coming to the United Kingdom to be reunited with their families, this is a free service. There are no charges in place whatsoever."

The Home Secretary told MPs various countries bordering Ukraine are asking "different requirements from the Home Office in terms of how we undertake our checks".

Priti Patel's comments came as Labour former minister Chris Bryant told her "we have been really running to catch up".

The MP for Rhondda said: "The thing that still nags away at me is, as I understand it, and as we were talking to the foreign affairs committee, the Government has known since October or November of last year that Putin either wanted or intended to do this.

"So on so many levels, we've been really running to catch up and I think a lot of us are asking 'why didn't we know that we needed to put all this in place like two months ago?'"

Priti Patel replied: "Of course, we've know that this attack was absolutely planned. What we are finding though, and the schemes that we have, obviously have been developed with the governments within the region. I must emphasise that.

"Currently, right now various countries within the region are asking different requirements from the Home Office in terms of how we undertake our checks, how we process individuals, and we are trying to simplify this so that it just makes it easier across the board.

"So if I may, in Poland last week, the Polish government tells us please do not process people near the border or within close proximity of the border. Please use your visa application centres. The Hungarian government have asked us for a totally different approach and asked us for liaison officers on the ground. The Romanian government are asking us to come to the border. So, we have deliberately chosen to use the facilities of the visa application centres to give the certainty and consistency in approach."

Home Secretary Priti Patel said the digital system would allow "important checks" and appeared to suggest Labour had created "misinformation" about visa appointments.

She said: "It's really important to remember again that, yes, we have known this attack has been coming, but we have to work with the intelligence and security agencies." She said the "important checks" can be done through the digital process.

Addressing criticisms from Labour, she said Ukrainian families want to see the country come together.

"If I can just reflect on many of the comments and observations that I've heard directly from the Ukrainian members of the community in this country who I have spent a great deal of time with this week, not just on their application, how applications are processed," she said, adding "there is a very clear application process for families".

She appeared to dismiss criticisms there is too much paperwork and accused Labour of creating "misinformation" about visa appointments, and said Ukrainians in the UK want to see the country "come together" in support and take a "collective approach" in helping get their family members to the UK.

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has avoided answering whether he agrees with Foreign Secretary Liz Truss' suggestion that oligarchs linked to Putin have blood on their hands over the Ukraine invasion, but said they are "supporting the appalling situation that we see unfolding before us on a daily basis".

Speaking at Tapa military base in Estonia, he told the PA news agency: "I think it's very important that we take the strongest possible measures against all of those linked to the Putin regime and we've been supportive of what the Government has done on sanctions but we do want them to go further and faster on this.

"The numbers of oligarchs that are being targeted and also the sanctions that are going in."

When asked again whether he agreed that oligarchs linked to Putin had blood on their hands, Sir Keir said: "Anybody who's supported Putin is supporting the appalling situation that we see unfolding before us on a daily basis.

"At the moment the most immediate and important thing is that we have the most effective sanctions in place not just to isolate Russia but to cripple Russia's ability to function."

SNP MP Joanna Cherry said she welcomed the "U-turn" from the Government on Ukrainian refugees, adding in the Commons: "Will the Home Secretary also take the opportunity to apologise to the Ukrainian refugees whose suffering has been needlessly exacerbated by the Home Office's ineptitude?

"And will she apologise to many of my constituents who have Ukrainian relatives whose suffering has been exacerbated by her department's ineptitude?"

Home Secretary Priti Patel, in her reply, said the UK Government has been working with the Ukrainian community to "achieve the right outcomes".

Conservative MP Laura Trott (Sevenoaks) asked: "If a Ukrainian has a Ukrainian ID card rather than a passport, can they apply entirely online?"

Ms Patel replied: "No, this will be passports only", and said: "This is part of the problem of the wider challenge we've had in terms of documentation. These types of cases will need to go to VACs (visa application centres) but we've just increased capacity to over 13,000 appointments."

Labour MP Barry Sheerman (Huddersfield) acknowledged Ms Patel is doing a "difficult job at this stressful time", adding: "One tiny bit of advice: we really want to keep this cross-party support for the people in Ukraine, but will she remember that sometimes her tone is a bit aggressive and she did lose some of us on this side when she seemed to suggest that we couldn't be trusted with security information?"

Sir Keir Starmer could not explain why Labour supports emergency visas for Ukrainians instead of offering the visa-free policy of the EU when questioned at Tapa military base in Estonia.

When asked what the reasoning was behind Labour's policy on the visas, he said: "I'm here in Estonia with British forces who have an incredible reputation across the world, enhancing our reputation as the United Kingdom.

"The Home Office approach to visas has been the complete opposite, a complete shambles that is diminishing our reputation across the world.

"We've got a Home Office where the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing and they need to restore their reputation, get on with the job, and find a way of having a safe route to sanctuary for people who are desperately fleeing for their lives."

The Labour leader also chose not to comment on whether he was worried about a small number of British Army troops who have defied orders and deserted for Ukraine, and what message this sends to Mr Putin.

Sir Keir Starmer has said the Government's "slow" response to imposing sanctions on oligarchs amid the Ukraine invasion bears "echoes of Afghanistan".

When asked about sanctions on Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich, he said: "I'm slightly frustrated, we called for this weeks ago and whilst we're very supportive of the action the Government has taken on sanctions, there are echoes of Afghanistan here. We need to go further and faster on this."

He added: "I called for these sanctions against Abramovich two weeks ago now and a feature of the Government's reaction here is that they are too slow.

"I support what they are doing and we voted for these sanctions to go through, but we do want a Government to go further and faster, and not be so slow."

When asked who else the Government should be sanctioning, Sir Keir said: "Every oligarch and those supporting Putin in any way should be sanctioned.

"So, we want more sanctions against more people, further and faster, we will support the Government in this, support the whole House on this, but they do need to go further and faster."

A woman trying to reach the UK was told to return to the Ukrainian capital, MPs have heard.

Home Secretary Priti Patel said if such a comment had been made then it was "thoroughly inappropriate".

Speaking in the Commons, Labour MP Rachael Maskell (York Central) said: "The Home Secretary has been on the wrong side of history and the wrong side of humanity.

"We're talking about women, children and older people - and my constituent's friend, who has just crossed the border into Poland and was told, when she went to get her visa, to go back to a city called Kyiv, in the middle of a warzone.

"There's still chaos at the borders. The Home Secretary is shaking her head but she was. There's chaos at the borders, so why can't people come visa-free to the UK border to collect their documentation and then to get that warm welcome that she talks about?"

Ms Patel said she could not comment on the anecdotal evidence given, adding: "Kyiv is obviously under siege and it's thoroughly inappropriate if anybody has made that comment."

Priti Patel echoed concerns over "ethnic cleansing" linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Conservative MP Bob Blackman (Harrow East) told the Commons: "President Putin has not only unleashed death and destruction on the people of Ukraine but he's also involved in ethnic cleansing and we should face up to that.

"Many of those fleeing in fear of their lives will want to go back after Putin's forces have gone from the country, others will want to resettle.

"So will (Ms Patel) make the system as flexible as possible so that those who want to resettle in the UK can do so, but those who want to come on a temporary basis will be able to return to their native country?"

Home Secretary Ms Patel said there is a recognition that people will want to return home once it is safe, adding: "The point about ethnic cleansing is so valid, there are still people of Ukrainian origin in Russia that are subject to such appalling persecution."

Ms Patel said these people are "in our thoughts", including in considerations of how "we want to help them too".

The Government is "open" to a sale of Chelsea FC if a licence is approved by the Treasury but Roman Abramovich must not be allowed to profit, Downing Street said.

A spokesman for Boris Johnson said: "We are now talking to Chelsea Football Club and those conversations will continue, it would be part of those discussions the terms of any specific licence that's granted to allow any sale to proceed.

"The important thing is under no circumstances would any sale allow Roman Abramovich to profit from that or take any money from that sale."

The spokesman added: "It's fair to say the Government is open to the sale of the club but currently it would require another licence, and that would require further conversation with the Treasury and other departments."

Downing Street stressed that Boris Johnson considers Nato a "defensive alliance" when asked whether Russia using chemical weapons in Ukraine would trigger an international response.

A spokesman for Boris Johnson added: "It's obviously the case that we and our allies will continue to monitor the situation closely considering the history of Russia and its proxies using chemical weapons, and the false allegations the Russian government has been making about others developing them."

The Government should sanction the "proxies" of Russian oligarchs in the UK, ministers heard.

Labour former minister Chris Bryant said: "Can he explain something to me? That the Foreign Affairs Select Committee was told earlier this week both by the Foreign Secretary and by other people that Foreign Office officials identified as early as 2019 that the sanctions regime we brought in in 2018 was simply not going to be fast enough or easy enough to use if we had a situation such as we have today.

"Why on earth didn't the Government do something much sooner about it? I am delighted that Roman Abramovich and (Oleg) Deripaska have been sanctioned today, to be honest I think they should have been sanctioned several years ago.

"Are we going to tackle the people who have acted as proxies for these people? Like Greg Barker? Arron Banks? Ben Elliot? Are we going to sanction some of the people - all the people who have been acting as proxies for them?

"Are we going to sanction some of the people like Dmitry Mazepin, who are Belarusians who have been actively supporting the invasion in Ukraine? Because I think the whole House wants to take a full united approach to this but we just worry that the UK sanctioned seven people today, the EU - all 27 countries - sanctioned 160 yesterday."

Replying to a question from Labour MP Chris Bryant, Commons Leader Mark Spencer said: "I think we now are in a place where we have the most robust sanctions regime in place where we can take action against some of the individuals that he named.

"He acknowledges we are taking action, today we have announced sanctions against two individuals, well, two he named and five others.

"I don't think it is helpful to have a running commentary on individual names in this chamber but he should rest assured the United Kingdom is taking action, will continue to take action and we will be very robust in those sanctions."

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said the special licence for Chelsea would "protect the game, the club and its fans".

She told the BBC: "Roman Abramovich cannot benefit from the club. But it is important to note that fans can still - if you have existing tickets and existing season ticket holders - can still go to matches, the match will still go ahead on Sunday.

"They can still go to away matches. Those working at the club will still be paid and the players can still be paid."

Asked whether Mr Abramovich had been given too much warning of the impending sanctions, allowing him to move assets, she said: "This country abides by the rule of law.

"In order to sanction someone, you have to have the evidence to do so.

"I know that the Foreign Office has been working very hard to gather that evidence together, they have now done so, which is why those sanctions were announced this morning which included Abramovich."

No 10 said the changes being brought in by Home Secretary Priti Patel to streamline the online visa application system for Ukrainians would help the UK to process refugees "quicker".

Asked about if the security risk from people applying through the Ukraine Family Scheme was deemed to have reduced, a spokesman for the Prime Minister told reporters: "I'm not going to get into commenting on intelligence, which you know we never do.

"But it is obviously the case that safety and security remains paramount, and remains a priority.

"The Home Secretary has set out that vital security checks will continue on all cases but these changes allow us to simplify the system and accelerate the process for Ukrainians eligible to come over to the UK safely.

"So, as I say, we will continue to ensure that safety is a priority but we've been able to introduce a system that will allow us to facilitate more Ukrainians who are in need of coming to the UK quicker."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said there should no "nowhere to hide" for individuals close to Vladimir Putin's regime.

Speaking to CNN in the US, she said: "We went through a period after the Cold War where we all thought that peace would be inevitable, that we could reduce defence spending, that we could focus on growing our economies. We became dependent on authoritarian regimes.

"If you look at Europe and our dependence on Russian oil and gas, that has been a huge problem. So, what we need to do now is completely change our approach.

"That's why we put in place (these) tough sanctions, and today I've announced that we're sanctioning Roman Abramovich as well as other major oligarchs close to the Putin regime.

"We need to take this head on, (there) can be nowhere to hide for these individuals. We cannot carry on with business as usual, as we have been doing for the past 20 years."

Liz Truss said the UK "absolutely" believes war crimes have been committed in Ukraine.

The Foreign Secretary said this called for a "tough international response".

Speaking to CNN in the US, she said: "We absolutely believe that war crimes are being committed. We've referred the case to the International Criminal Court, along with 37 other nations."

She added: "This is why we need such a tough international response ... We are doubling down on our sanctions, being tough on banks, (we're) putting in place (an) elimination of oil from Russia into the United Kingdom.

"But we need to do more with our allies because Putin has to lose in Ukraine. That is vitally important. And it's just appalling, the suffering we're seeing on the streets of Ukraine."

Liz Truss said "we cannot trust a word" from Russia, as "they're now claiming there isn't a war".

Asked if it would be helpful for the US to join the UK in saying war crimes had been committed in Ukraine, the Foreign Secretary told CNN: "We're working with all of our allies, including the United States, on this issue.

"But what we can see is appalling atrocities taking place. There is now talk of the use of chemical weapons. We've seen Russia do that before. And we're determined to call Russia out for this appalling invasion.

"We warned against it taking place. The Russians said they had no plans to invade, they're now claiming there isn't a war. We cannot trust a word they say. And we strongly believe there is evidence that appalling crimes are taking place and we are doing all we can to collect that evidence."

Boris Johnson defended the "very careful" approach to imposing sanctions.

The Prime Minister told reporters: "The right to property is something that English law, UK law takes very seriously.

"You have got to go through due process."

The Economic Crime Bill would allow the process to be accelerated, he said.

"You have got to have clear evidence that people are connected to the Putin regime, that has been established, that's why we are going ahead with the sanctions that we are."

Boris Johnson said there was "enough of a link" between the Putin regime and the fresh round of oligarchs to be sanctioned, in a list including Roman Abramovich, to take action against them.

The Prime Minister told broadcasters: "I can't comment on what individuals are doing but what we've concluded is that there is enough connection, enough of the link between the Putin regime and the individuals in question, to justify the action.

"I think when you look at what is happening in Ukraine, and you look to the casual rejection of every norm of civilised behaviour in bombing a maternity hospital, I think people in this country, I can see that people connected to the Putin regime need to be sanctioned, and that's what we're doing."

Boris Johnson said he will continue to "tighten the economic vice around the Putin regime" with further sanctions in the future.

The Prime Minister told broadcasters: "We've taken the powers to do that and, certainly, you can expect to see that.

"You can also expect to see the UK, again, leading in conversations with our friends and partners around the world to make sure that as Putin doubles down in violence against the Ukrainian people, we in the rest of the world, we who condemn his behaviour, work together to tighten the economic vice around the Putin regime, and that's what we're going to do."

Liz Truss said it would be a "grave mistake" for Russia to use chemical weapons.

Asked if the use of such weapons would be a "red line" for the UK, and how it would respond in that situation, the Foreign Secretary told CNN: "We are very concerned about the potential use of chemical weapons.

"Now, of course, we've seen Russia use these weapons before in fields of conflict, but that would be a grave mistake on the part of Russia, adding to the grave mistakes that have already been made by Putin."

Boris Johnson has warned British troops who go AWOL to fight against the Russian invasion of Ukraine will face court martial on their return to the UK.

Asked about a 19-year-old from Warrington said to have travelled to Ukraine to fight Russia, the Prime Minister told broadcasters: "I think that everybody seeing what's happening in Ukraine will understand those feelings and I think many people, many people in our armed forces, will sympathise because I don't think I've ever seen such clear distinction in international affairs between right and wrong and good and evil in what President Putin is doing to people in Ukraine.

"But we have very clear laws in this country. You shouldn't go to Ukraine, and I'm afraid people going from our armed services, as the Chief of the Defence Staff made clear the other day, will face court martial."

Liz Truss said the imposition of a no-fly zone, "however limited", over the skies of Ukraine would bring Nato into "direct conflict" with Russia.

Asked if Britain could support a "limited" no-fly zone with "a very narrowly defined humanitarian mission", she told CNN: "The issue ... with a no-fly zone is that would bring Nato into direct conflict with Russia, however limited that no-fly zone is.

"What our view is, is the best way to help the Ukrainians with their air defence is to supply equipment like the Starstreak, which we are supplying to the Ukrainians.

"That will help Ukraine defend their own country, it will help them defend their skies, but it won't bring Nato into the conflict."

Boris Johnson insisted the visa scheme was as "light touch" as possible but stressed the need for security checks on people fleeing Ukraine.

The Prime Minister told reporters: "I think people do understand that when you have got large numbers of people leaving from a war zone - some of them still armed, perhaps not all of their identities completely clear, their motivations completely clear - it is responsible to have checks."

Asked about the UK being behind other European countries in accepting Ukrainians, Mr Johnson said: "I think the UK has got an outstanding record of accepting vulnerable people fleeing from war zones.

"I think we have done more since 2015 to settle vulnerable people than any other country."

He said "more than a thousand" visas had been granted by Wednesday and the numbers "are going to climb very steeply".

"That reflects the generosity of the British people," he said.

"We are going to want to welcome Ukrainians fleeing the war zone."

(Corrected repetition, amending UN source in par 2 - first ran at 1339)

Western officials have described the refugee situation in Ukraine as "unprecedented", with concerns the total number of people fleeing could reach four million within days.

One official said: "The UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) briefed us and others who are leading donors just last night.

"As of then, their number of refugees had topped two million - they are at 2.2 million as of last night - but they are worried we could see four million over the next few days.

"These are unprecedented movements of people in Europe, or indeed probably anywhere else in the world."

The official added: "I would like to stress the sheer scale of this, which is something that we haven't seen, certainly since the end of the Second World War, and that is a real challenge to us all."

Ukrainian refugees are turning up with frostbite due to the cold and some have mental health scars after facing bombardment, according to Western officials.

One official said: "What we're seeing is with the refugees now and the IDPs (internally displaced persons), you're getting simple things like frostbite because people are walking.

"You're getting things like women who can't get access to maternal healthcare, you're getting people needing mental health support because they've just come from areas that have been targeted and bombed.

"So, the needs are going to keep shifting."

The official said there was a "change in the profile" of refugees turning up at the borders of neighbouring countries, adding: "The first wave of refugees were very quickly moving on because these were people with resources, they had contacts elsewhere, so they came and they moved.

"In the second wave we were starting to see these people who are very traumatised, they left without any resources, they are very vulnerable and they need more direct support."

Another official said those turning up more recently were the "more infirm, for example the elderly, the grandparents who people have left behind because they are not able to move around very easily".

Jonathan Powell, former chief of staff to Tony Blair, said the West would need to "think very seriously" about its next steps if Russia deployed chemical weapons.

He told BBC Radio 4's World at One programme: "I think that's what the West needs to think about, particularly the US needs to think about, very hard - if Putin were to use a tactical nuclear weapon or chemical weapons in Ukraine, would that be a red line crossed, and would we have to act?

"Remember we faced this issue in Syria where ... (Bashar Assad) used chemical weapons ... with, of course, Russian support. We said we were going to act and then we didn't act.

"I think that would be catastrophic in terms of appeasement to Putin and ending up in a situation where he'll keep taking further action. So, I think we need to be clear about what our red lines are."

He added: "I understand why we're not getting dragged into the third world war ... which is why I say we need to offer a way out ... for Putin if he is prepared to take it. But if he crosses one of these red lines, a tactical nuclear weapon, or chemical weapons, I think we should think very seriously indeed if that is a red line for us and we're going to act.

"Because, otherwise, we simply get escalation and more escalation ... and then we are going to have to deal with it when we're in a worse situation."

Meeting Royal Navy officers on HMS Dauntless, which is undergoing a refit at Cammell Laird shipyard in Birkenhead, Merseyside, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: "Circumstances have changed quite a lot, probably, since your refit began and we are going to need you out there doing a lot of stuff as fast as possible.

"There are operations that we are going to be ramping up, as you know, on the eastern front of Nato."

He thanked commanding officer Ben Power, who told him: "We will be there."

Mr Johnson was joined by Defence Secretary Ben Wallace for the visit.

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey said the UK and Nato allies "would seriously have to consider what we next did" in the event Russia used chemical weapons.

Sir Ed told BBC Radio 4's World At One programme: "I was really taken by what Jonathan Powell (former chief of staff to Tony Blair)... was saying just earlier on your programme - that if the Russians, if Putin's regime, used chemical weapons, or used tactical nuclear weapons, I think the UK with our Nato allies would seriously have to consider what we next did.

"We'd certainly have to start sanctioning more widely to those sorts of countries who are working with Russia and still supplying them with goods that could be used for weapons. We'd certainly have to decide whether or not we take further action."

Pressed on whether there is a point at which the situation gets so bad in Ukraine the UK has to intervene, he said: "I was in the Cabinet when we had to take the decision with our American colleagues to attack (Bashar) Assad in Syria when he used chemical weapons. I was very disappointed when Parliament rejected that.

"But we went about it in a very sober way, consulting with colleagues, looking at the action and looking at what the implication would be. So I think that would be the right course of action. We'd certainly have to consider it."

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries has condemned a tweet from the Russian embassy in the UK which claimed the maternity hospital bombed in Ukraine was "long non-operational".

Ms Dorries tweeted "This is fake news. Reported via @DCMS" in relation to a statement from Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov which was included in a tweet from the Russian embassy.

The tweet from @RussianEmbassy read: "FM £Lavrov on the £Mariupol attack: The maternity house was long non-operational. Instead, it was used by (Ukrainian) armed forces and radicals, namely the neo-Nazi Azov Battalion.

"Moreover, £Russia warned £UN Security Council about this 3 days ago."

Russian claims that Ukrainians are their "brothers and sisters" have been rejected by Liberal Democrat former leader Lord Campbell of Pittenweem, who said it was "a very curious affection which relies on cruise missiles, helicopter gunships and artillery shells".

Speaking at Westminster, the peer said: "The targeting of civilians, of their homes and their refugees is most certainly barbaric. The bravery is the quite extraordinary fact that this nation against all odds has mobilised to face an enemy described... as being one with overwhelming firepower.

"This enemy targets the elderly, the vulnerable and the young. What sort of people attack a maternity hospital? Whether by design or carelessness, whether it was a bomb or it has been suggested artillery, it is still a war crime."

He added: "Russians claim the people of Ukraine are their brothers and sisters. A very curious affection which relies on cruise missiles, helicopter gunships and artillery shells."

Defence minister Baroness Goldie said: "By launching this unprovoked attack on Ukraine, President Putin has chosen this path of bloodshed and destruction, barbarism and butchery.

"That's what has to be resisted. We cannot allow that evil to remain unchallenged."

She added: "I think all of us are full of admiration for the quite extraordinary resilience the people of Ukraine are showing."

Ministers are keeping tight-lipped on details of training Ukrainian forces following the decision to send more weapons to the Kyiv government to help in its defensive effort against Russia's invasion.

As well as anti-tank weapons, the Government is considering supplying Starstreak high-velocity manned portable anti-air missiles.

Speaking in Parliament, Labour peer Lord Anderson of Swansea said: "Quite rightly we have decided to give sophisticated weaponry to Ukraine. That surely needs very good training.

"Where will this training be done? Outside the borders of Ukraine?"

Defence minister Baroness Goldie said: "Yes, there will be a degree of training required and he will understand that for reasons of operational discretion I am not going to be more explicit about that."

Tory peer Lord Cormack highlighted the emotional address given by Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky to MPs in which he invoked British war leader Sir Winston Churchill, vowing to fight invading Russian troops in the air, sea and on the streets.

He said: "Can I suggest that Parliament, both Houses, should nominate President Zelensky for the Nobel Peace Prize?"

Lady Goldie said: "I am sure we are all conscious of the extraordinary attributes of President Zelensky and everyone will be reflecting how we best acknowledge that."

Another processing centre will open in Arras for Ukrainian refugees seeking to come to the UK.

The British consular post was being set up at the prefecture of the Pas-de-Calais region in Arras in northern France, the prefecture said in a statement on Thursday.

It is understood the latest visa application centre to open - just under 70 miles from Calais - will only handle the cases of people who have been referred there and is anticipated to operate along similar lines of a small "pop-up" site now established in Lille.

Downing Street said a tweet from the Russian embassy in the UK claiming the maternity hospital bombed in Ukraine was no longer operational and that images had been faked was "disinformation".

A spokesman for the Prime Minister told reporters: "It is clear that this is further disinformation.

"You have seen the pictures of the people who were wounded during that attack, and you have seen what the Prime Minister said in his tweet yesterday."

The spokesman said he was "not aware" that the Foreign Office had held "specific conversations" about reprimanding the embassy for the social media post.

Asked whether Boris Johnson would like to see social media platforms shut down the Russian embassy's accounts, the spokesman replied: "That's obviously a matter for Twitter, but we've been clear that that is disinformation.

"You've seen the increase in the civilians that have been targeted and sadly wounded and killed on the basis of Russian attacks."

Boris Johnson has accused Russia of a "cynical, barbaric" attempt to justify the use of chemical weapons in Ukraine.

The Prime Minister said the Kremlin was preparing a "fake story" that there were chemical weapons being stored in the country to provide grounds for using them themselves.

"The stuff which you are hearing about chemical weapons is straight out of the Russian playbook," he told Sky News.

"They start saying that there are chemical weapons that are being stored by their opponents or by the Americans so that when they themselves deploy chemical weapons, as I fear they may, they have a fake story ready to go.

"You have seen it in Syria, you saw it even in the UK. I just note that that is what they are already doing. It is a cynical, barbaric government I'm afraid."

The Walt Disney Company has announced it is taking steps to "pause all other businesses in Russia" following the invasion in Ukraine.

It comes one week after the company delayed the theatrical release of its films in Russia in response to the ongoing crisis.

In a statement, Disney said: "Last week, after Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, we announced that we were pausing the release of theatrical films in Russia and reviewing the rest of our businesses there.

"Given the unrelenting assault on Ukraine and the escalating humanitarian crisis, we are taking steps to pause all other businesses in Russia. This includes content and product licensing, Disney Cruise Line activities, National Geographic magazine and tours, local content productions and linear channels.

"Some of those business activities we can and will pause immediately. Others - such as linear channels and some content and product licensing -will take time given contractual complexities.

"Even as we pause these businesses, we remain committed to our dedicated colleagues in Russia, who will remain employed. And we continue to work with our NGO partners to provide urgent aid and other much-needed assistance to refugees."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220310ei3a000m9


US VP Harris: We maintain diplomacy is the way to solve problems
365 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日 14:35 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, March 11 /Agerpres/ - Visiting US Vice President Kamala Harris says that the US maintain that that diplomacy is the way to resolve the situation in Ukraine, while noting that the Russian currency, the ruble, is in free fall following sanctions on Russia.

'From the beginning, the United States has been attempting sincerely to engage in diplomacy, actively, and from everything that we know and have witnessed Putin shows no sign of engaging in serious diplomacy. As many of you know, I gave a speech in Munich three weeks ago before the reinvasion of Ukraine started. And I said then what we have maintained all along: all we are witnessing is a playbook, the Russian playbook. And it includes lies, misinformation, and the acts of aggression that we are now witnessing. We maintain that diplomacy is the way to resolve these issues. That coexists with our commitment to ensure that our allies are strong and that there must serious consequence and accountability for what Russia is doing. Which is why we have (...) engaged in historic sanctions and to the effect of basically a free fall of the rouble; the Russian stock market is still not open; their credit ranking is now junk, and there will be more announcements about more action that we will take to ensure serious consequence for what is atrocious and outrageous conduct on behalf of the Russian people by Putin,' she told a joint news conference with President Klaus Iohannis at the Cotroceni Presidential Palace.

The Romanian President also said in his turn that in case additional sanctions are needed, they will be applied.

'The sanction packages have been discussed between the US and the European Union we will continue to work together on this. This is the economic side. On the other hand, the two of us just stated that we stand strong together according to Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. And we will continue this way. So, if new sanctions are necessary, they will be discussed and applied,' Iohannis said. AGERPRES (RO - author: Irinela Visan, editor: Florin Marin; EN - author: Corneliu-Aurelian Colceriu, editor: Adina Panaitescu)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220311ei3b003ml


President of the United States - Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Iohannis of Romania in Joint Press Conference
President of the United States published this content on 11 Mar 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 11 Mar 2022 18:58:08 UTC.
4108 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日
U.S. Government News and Documents via PUBT
USGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/CDCE7E4DD24F120D678A843BE8F0C9B36752FDA4]

Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Iohannis of Romania in Joint Press Conference

Cotroceni Palace

Bucharest, Romania

4:14 P.M. EET

PRESIDENT IOHANNIS: (As interpreted.) Good afternoon. I'm pleased to welcome to Bucharest Vice President of the United States of America, Her Excellency, Madam Kamala Harris.

Dear Madam Vice President, welcome to Romania.

I would like to thank Madam Vice President for her presence in Romania in this challenging moment for the democratic community and for the Euro-Atlantic security.

Your visit, Madam Vice President, reflects once more the strength and solidity of the bilateral strategic partnership and the firm commitment of the United States for the security of Romania and NATO Allies from the eastern flank.

I have conveyed to Madam Vice President the appreciation of Romania for the efforts and leadership of the United States, of President Biden, of Madam Vice President, and of the entire Washington administration in this very complicated context.

The continuous dialogue and the close coordination of the United States with Romania and with all the Allies and partners had an essential contribution to delivering a unified and strong message of the international community to the actions of Russia.

Together, we have come up with a firm and prompt response, both from the point of view of assistance in multiple areas, both for Ukraine and for the individuals affected by the conflict, both when it comes to the sanctions applied to Russia and to the measures for adopting the Allied posture in its entirety, especially on the eastern flank.

Madam Vice President has reconfirmed as part of our - today's discussions the full commitment of the United States of America for the Article 5 regarding the collective defense of the NATO Washington Treaty. This Article contains the essence and spirit of NATO and guarantees that any attempt to impact the security of one NATO state will receive a firm, prompt response of the entire Alliance.

I'm saying it with a great responsibility: NATO will act without hesitation to defend each and every Allied state, including obviously Romania. It is a scenario that all of us want to avoid. But we, as Allies - and I'm saying it while I stand next to our most important strategic partner - will defend every inch when it comes to respecting the commitments that bind us.

I have conveyed my gratitude for these unshakeable security guarantees as the Romanian society has never had in its history, and thanks to which every citizen of Romania can be confident about his own safety and the safety of his family.

I have also conveyed my gratitude for the consolidation of the United States military presence in Romania. We have also discussed about the need within this tense context to keep increasing the American and Allied presence in Romania in the long run as an additional measure to ensure the security of our country and of the entire region.

I have conveyed that, in turn, Romania understands that the security starts at home. And from this point of view, I have recently decided to increase the defense expenses from 2 percent, where it stands now, to 2.5 percent of GDP. And this is greatly appreciated by the American side.

Together with Madam Vice President, we have assessed the long-term implications of the aggression that is taking place in Ukraine, as well as the Russian military presence in Belarus and the Euro-Atlantic.

We have agreed to cooperate to further consolidate the defense measures and deterrence on the eastern flank with a focus on the southern part.

I have highlighted the fact that, in this context, it is necessary to operationalize as soon as possible the NATO battle group on the territory of Romania.

Overall, Romania's strategic assessment is that it becomes necessary to fundamentally rethink the concept, the structure, and the constituent elements of the NATO posture on the eastern flank, taking into account the fact that the current circumstances are considerably different compared to the moment when the current approach concerning the eastern flank was projected.

We need a united forward presence and a coherent one as soon as possible. We have discussed today about our common approach in order to come up with a common response to these unprecedented challenges, especially when it comes to the humanitarian area.

Romania, the United States, along with its Allied and partner countries, have offered assistance in different domains to Ukraine and its people that fights with heroism, courage, and determination.

As you know, I have decided the operationalization in Suceava of a humanitarian logistics facility - so-called hub - that, thanks to the support of the European Union, has the role to collect and transport the international donations in the area of humanitarian assistance for Ukrainian citizens. I have invited the United States to support the activity of this hub.

We have also discussed about the support that is so necessary to the Republic of Moldova. The situation of the neighboring country is unique from the point of view of a very high ratio between the number of refugees and population. This pressure overlaps with the economic and energy-related difficulties that the Republic of Moldova has to face.

Together with Madam Vice President, we have analyzed the energy security prospects. We agreed that this crisis can represent a historic opportunity to switch - to reach a true European energy independence from the Russian gas through investments in renewable sources in the civilian nuclear sector; through diversifying sources, imports of liquefied natural gas; and, obviously, through increased interconnectivity.

As you probably remember, within the context of COP26 Glasgow Summit, the common Romania-USA project to include small modular reactors in the Romanian national system - we agreed to continue and to intensify our cooperation in this strategic domain.

Last but not least, a fundamental aspect for the success of our efforts and to ensure - ensuring our common security is represented by the maintenance and consolidation of the transatlantic relationship by ensuring the unity and coordination of the European Union, United States, NATO, and G7.

Romania brought its own contribution in this regard by promoting the Bucharest Nine format, which was very efficient, even in this context.

This year, we celebrate 25 years from the launch of our strategic partnership that continuously developed during the last years and is currently at its highest level in its history.

In addition to the consolidated cooperation in the area of defense and security, and of the ambitious initiatives in the energy sector, I have discussed with Madam Vice President to continue expanding all the dimensions of the strategic partnership, from the economic one, including through the development of regional priorities, strategic projects related to the interconnectivity and that are of interest for Romania, and up to the consolidation of scientific cooperation and of, obviously, interhuman relationships.

We also discussed about visa waiver topic in regards to Romania, and we hope to have some results in this area as well.

Once again, I would like to thank Vice President Harris for coming to Romania. I'm sure that the substantive discussions that we had will be followed up by concrete measures and adequate - appropriate decisions for the unprecedented context in which we currently find ourselves in.

Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Thank you, President Iohannis, for the warm welcome to Romania and for your steadfast friendship to the partnership that we have that is longstanding and enduring.

I also want to recognize and thank Prime Minister Ciucă for the conversation that we had last week.

If I may, Mr. President, I'd like to speak directly to the Romanian people for one moment, to thank you, on behalf of the United States.

Under the leadership of President Iohannis, Romania has been extraordinary in the generosity and the courage that you have shown in this moment. Around the world, we have watched as you have received refugees. Around the world, and I will speak for the United States, we know of the particular challenges that you face geographically, yet you have shown so much courage.

The meeting that the President and I had today was a very productive meeting to reaffirm the strength of the relationship and friendship between the United States and Romania.

I've said many times, including this afternoon with the President and the President's leadership, but around the world, and I will say it here: America's commitment to Article 5 is ironclad. We take very seriously our role and the relationships that we have within the NATO Alliance.

We take seriously and are prepared to act on the words we speak when we say an attack against one is an attack against all. We are firm in our commitment - when I say and we say over and over again, President Joe Biden says: We will defend every inch of NATO territory.

So I am present in Romania today to reaffirm that commitment, in addition to thanking the president, your leadership, and the people of Romania.

The strength of our Alliance has endured and is now bigger and stronger than ever. The strength of our Alliance includes our mutual commitment to stand on the principles that we hold dear and share, that include the defense of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of independent states - and in this case, Ukraine.

We are clear that the work that is to be done in response to Putin's war includes standing strong within the Alliance to support the needs of our partners. To that end, and to demonstrate our commitment as the United States, in recent weeks we sent a 1,000-member Stryker squadron. That creates a total force of 2,000 American troops who are prepared to stand in defense of our commitment to the NATO Alliance and the eastern flank.

We have reinforced our recent commitments, all with the mention and with the meaning of strengthening our deterrence and our collective defense.

I want to thank you, President Iohannis, for your leadership on NATO's eastern flank. I want to thank you for in addition to doing all that you have been doing in your role of leadership, to modernizing and to increasing the resources that are available.

You and I talked about the importance of running a government in a way that we modernize and are efficient and effective with the resources we have. You have been a model in that regard, and I thank you.

In terms of our mutual support for the people of Ukraine - in Washington, in the United States Congress, we have taken recent action, including a commitment of $13.6 billion

for Ukraine and the region in terms of security assistance and humanitarian assistance.

The President - Iohannis and I talked extensively, and I was very moved, Mr. President, by the stories you shared with me of the time you spent with refugees, and the heart-wrenching experience that they are having.

So we stand together, Romania and the United States, in ensuring that we will do all that is required to put resources into the humanitarian piece of this, understanding that the needs are significant and immediate.

To the extent that we are offering humanitarian assistance, in addition to the $13.6 billion package from the United States Congress, $4 billion of that will be directly committed to humanitarian assistance. That is on top of the $53 million that I announced yesterday that, through the U.N., the United States will give to the World Food Programme.

But I must say, when we are talking about humanitarian assistance, Romania has been a hub of humanitarian assistance. And that is yet another reason that we are here to thank the President and the people of this great country for what you are doing based on the needs of this region. You have been welcoming tens of thousands of refugees, and doing it with such compassion and such grace.

So I'll conclude my remarks by saying that this is a strong and enduring relationship. It is an important relationship. And the importance of this relationship is being highlighted at this very moment. But it is a relationship that will continue over the years.

And again, I thank you, Mr. President, and the people of this beautiful country for all you do and all you represent. Thank you.

PRESIDENT IOHANNIS: Thank you so much, Madam Vice President. We have a couple of questions.

Q (As interpreted.) Good afternoon. Roxana Zamfirescu, State TV. I have a question for both officials. I would like to ask you if the United States plans to increase the number of troops and to create here a permanent presence. I'm asking this in the context of which 150 kilometers away from the Romanian frontieră take - bombardments take place. And I would like to ask you as well if - what are the chances of the war extending towards Romania and Republic of Moldova?

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: I cannot repeat frequently enough that the United States is committed to our friendship and alliance with Romania. And to that end, we have a continuous and rotating commitment of U.S. troops to this country, most recently with the deployment of the 1,000-member Stryker squadron.

And as the people of Romania know, we also know that this is a dynamic situation, and we will, on a daily basis, assess the needs that we have to maintain stability in this region.

As it relates to what might be the future conduct of Putin, I cannot speculate. But we are clear in our position, which is that as a member of NATO, an attack against one is an attack against all.

PRESIDENT IOHANNIS: Thank you. (As interpreted.) I believe that the first part received a very clear response from Madam Vice President.

As for the second part, I can highlight the fact that we do not have information that would indicate that Romania would represent a target of an aggression. On the other hand, it is very clear that this Russian action, this war started against Ukraine, definitely created, definitely produced a result - a visible, a firm, a clear result. And it's represented by the unity of NATO and the determination of NATO Allies to stand together and to defend itself - each other.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Nancy -

Q Hi, thank you.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: - from Bloomberg.

Q Thank you. Thank you. Madam Vice President, the humanitarian crisis is growing and the violence only seems to be getting worse. The White House and British government have both offered dire warnings about the possibility of the chemical weapons being deployed by Russia, and diplomatic efforts seem to have failed. Is there any discernible pathway out of the crisis? And what is the off-ramp?

And to the President of Romania: I'm curious if you think that there are any specific economic sanctions that you'd like to see the U.S. pursue that they have not done so already. Thank you.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: In terms of your question about off-ramp: You know, from the beginning, the United States has been attempting sincerely to engage in diplomacy - actively. And from everything that we know and have witnessed, Putin shows no sign of engaging in serious diplomacy.

As many of you know, I gave a speech in Munich three weeks ago, before the in- - the reinvasion of Ukraine started. And I said then what we have maintained all along: We're witnessing a playbook - the Russian playbook - and it includes lies, misinformation, and the acts of aggression that we are now witnessing.

We maintain that diplomacy is the way to resolve these issues that coexists with our commitment to ensure that our Allies are strong and that there must be serious consequence and accountability for what Russia is doing, which is why we have - to the other point of your question - engaged in historic sanctions and to the effect of basically a freefall of the ruble. The Russian stock market is still not open. Their credit rating is now "junk."

And there will be more announcements about more action that we will take to ensure serious consequence for what is atrocious and outrageous conduct on behalf of the Russian people by Putin.

PRESIDENT IOHANNIS: The sanction packages have been discussed between the United States and the European Union. We worked very well together on this, and we will continue to work together on this. This is the economic side.

On the other hand, the two of us just stated that we stand strong together according to Article 5 of the NATO treaty, and we will continue this way. So, if new sanctions will be necessary, they will be discussed and applied.

Q (As interpreted.) Good afternoon. Oana Bala, Radio Romania. Madam Vice President, Mr. President, we have seen as the Russian troops attacked a maternity as well as humanitarian convoys. A lot of civilians were killed, including - a lot of people were killed, including children, and this triggered a huge international response. Do you believe that Russia committed war crimes in Ukraine?

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: I think I've said it before and I'll say it again: We are clear that any intentional attack or targeting of civilians is a war crime. Period.

PRESIDENT IOHANNIS: (As interpreted.) We have discussed these topics because the images are, of course, shocking. I have discussed about this with Madam Vice President, and yesterday we discussed this topic as part of the European Union summit.

And it is very clear to everyone that such situations must be documented in such a way that when the right moment comes, the authorities and the competent institutions would be able to follow up on these - on these facts and to establish in a correct manner on the international level whether or not they constitute war crimes, who committed them, and what should be the appropriate consequences for them.

However, it is unimaginable for all of us to see such images now in the 21st century, in a war that takes place in Europe. It's outrageous.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Aamer Madhani from the Associated Press.

Q Thank you. Thank you, Madam Vice President. I really appreciate it.

But may I ask, Mr. President, your country and many of your neighbors are enduring enormous cost aiding Ukrainian refugees, and you also face a really dire threat in the Black Sea. And I was just wondering if - what specifically you've asked the Vice President for. Particularly, do you need more U.S. troops here? Do you need any specific more materiel defense aid?

And if I can ask you, Madam Vice President: President Biden has said that Americans will feel some pain for the sake of defending freedom and liberty, but there does seem to be no endgame in sight. How long should Americans expect - how long should we be bracing for this really, sort of, historic inflation and some unprecedented gas prices?

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Sure. In terms of the discussions that the President Iohannis and I had, they ranged in subject, including the issue of the Black Sea, and I'll let him explain in more detail as he would like.

But we are, again, fully aware and apprised because we are in constant communication with the President, with his administration here about the concerns that they have about the entire region and, frankly, the vulnerability.

All you have to do is look at the map and see that where Romania exists geographically - and as is the case for our Allies on the eastern flank - that there are potential vulnerabilities, which is why we say very clearly: We will dedicate - and have been especially enhancing, over the last few weeks - our support based on their current needs.

When we look at Putin's actions - the previous question - there is - it is painful to watch. It is painful to watch what is happening to innocent people in Ukraine who just want to live in their own country and have pride in themselves as Ukrainians, who want to be home speaking the language they know, going to the church that they know, raising their children in the community where their families have lived for generations. And by the millions, now, are having to flee with nothing but a backpack.

And then you compound that with what happened a couple of days - the President talked about it today; I talked about it yesterday - in terms of a maternity hospital, pregnant women. We are - we have the unfortunate experience, all of us right now who are not in Ukraine, of witnessing horror.

So we are committed in everything we are doing. And, yes, then the President did say in the State of the Union,

there is a price to pay for democracy. Got to stand with your friends. And as everybody knows, even in your personal life, being loyal to those friendships based on common principles and values, sometimes it's difficult. Often, it ain't easy. But that's what the friendship is about, based on shared values. So that's what we're doing.

PRESIDENT IOHANNIS: Thank you. Russia started its attack on Ukraine from the south, from the Black Sea area. This is

a scenario we have been warning about for many years now.

On the other hand, Romania has approximately 650 kilometers of land border with Ukraine. It's the longest land border of all allies neighboring with Ukraine.

So, yes, we are concerned. We are concerned about the eastern flank. And this is why we are working on making the eastern flank stronger.

And, yes, we discussed with Vice President Harris about these issues. And I raised the issue of the eastern flank, that the eastern flank has to be strong, it has to be well balanced. Because if one part of the eastern flank is strong and the other part is weak, it's obviously a weakness on the eastern flank.

So the eastern flank has to be strong to defend the entire NATO, to defend the Euro-Atlantic area.

And on the eastern flank, the Allies - and, in this case, we discussed specifically about U.S. and Romania - have to materialize a force that is strong enough to be deterrent. NATO relies on strength and deterrence. So to deter somebody, you have to be strong in that area.

So, yes, we discussed about the necessity of a NATO battlegroup in Romania. And, obviously, the United States play an important role in this.

We discussed about enhanced U.S. presence on the eastern flank, specifically, obviously, on our part of the eastern flank. And we discussed, obviously, about Article 5 of NATO and about the longstanding partnership between our troops, because soldiers from the United States have been in Romania for many years now, and they work very well together with the Romanian forces, and they are a real gain on the southern part of the eastern flank. And they are a significant reassurance for Romanians that we do not stand alone, that we stand with the United States and with all the other NATO Allies.

So, yes, we discussed all this, and we have a common approach, if I may say so. And this is what - specific for our partnership. We have - we enjoy a strategic partnership because we try to solve problems and we do solve problems together.

Thank you.

Q Is there a specific number for the enhanced presence you would like to see? Is there a number of U.S. or NATO troops, additionally, you would like to see in Romania?

PRESIDENT IOHANNIS: Well, why don't we let the military from the States and from Romania talk together, and then to NATO, and then all of this will be public after that.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS: Thank you.

PRESIDENT IOHANNIS: No more questions? (Laughs.)

Thank you so much.

END 4:44 P.M. EET

* Original Link[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-president-iohannis-of-romania-in-joint-press-conference/]

Disclaimer

President of the United States published this content on 11 March 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 11 March 2022 18:58:19 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 USGND00020220311ei3b005mt


DIPLOMACY
Kamala Harris reiterates in Bucharest the full commitment of the United States to Article 5 on the collective defence of NATO: We will defend every inch of NATO territory. We are committed to our friendship and alliance with Romania
2477 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日
Nine O'Clock Online
NINEOC
英文
Copyright 2022. Nineoclock.ro. All rights reserved.
Romania “has been extraordinary in the generosity and the courage shown” in the context of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, US Vice President Kamala Harris told a joint news conference with President Klaus Iohannis at the Cotroceni Presidential Palace on Friday.

She thanked Romanians on behalf of the United States of America, saying that “Romania has been extraordinary in the generosity and the courage that you have shown in this moment.”

Harris added that “around the world we have watched as you received refugees.”

“Around the world, and I speak for the United States we know of the particular challenges that you face geographically,” said Harris.

Any intentional attack targeting civilians is a war crime

US Vice President Kamala Harris on Friday stated that “any intentional attack targeting civilians is a war crime.”

“I said it before and I will say it again that any intentional attack targeting civilians is a war crime,” Harris said, at the Cotroceni Palace, during the joint press conference with President Klaus Iohannis.

“We have the unfortunate experience, all of us now who are not in Ukraine, of witnessing horror. (…) It’s painful to watch what is happening to innocent people in Ukraine, who just want to live in their own country,” said the US Vice President.

An attack against one allied NATO state is an attack against all states in the Alliance

An attack against one allied NATO state is an attack against all states in the Alliance, US Vice President Kamala Harris also said on Friday at a joint press conference with President Klaus Iohannis.

“As the Romanian people know, as we all know, it is a dynamic situation and, as time goes on, we always evaluate the situation that exists. As for what might happen … in terms of Putin’s behavior, I can’t speculate, but we are very firm and it is clear that as members of NATO, an attack on a country is an attack on all”, she said.

“The United States is committed to our friendship and alliance with Romania,” she said, noting that there is a rotating US troops presence in Romania.

Regarding the deployment of additional troops, the US official said that “this is a dynamic situation and we will on a daily basis assess the needs that we have to maintain stability in the region.”

“America’s commitment to the North Atlantic-Treaty is ironclad. We take very seriously our role and the relationships that we have within the NATO Alliance. We take it seriously when we say that an attack against one is an attack against all. We are firm in our commitment. When I say and we say over and over again, President Biden says, we will defend every inch of NATO territory. So I am present in Romania today to reaffirm that commitment,” Harris pointed out.

We maintain diplomacy is the only way to solve the conflict

Visiting US Vice President Kamala Harris says that the US maintain that that diplomacy is the way to resolve the situation in Ukraine, while noting that the Russian currency, the ruble, is in free fall following sanctions on Russia.

“From the beginning, the United States has been attempting sincerely to engage in diplomacy, actively, and from everything that we know and have witnessed Putin shows no sign of engaging in serious diplomacy. As many of you know, I gave a speech in Munich three weeks ago before the reinvasion of Ukraine started. And I said then what we have maintained all along: all we are witnessing is a playbook, the Russian playbook. And it includes lies, misinformation, and the acts of aggression that we are now witnessing. We maintain that diplomacy is the way to resolve these issues. That coexists with our commitment to ensure that our allies are strong and that there must serious consequence and accountability for what Russia is doing. Which is why we have (…) engaged in historic sanctions and to the effect of basically a free fall of the rouble; the Russian stock market is still not open; their credit ranking is now junk, and there will be more announcements about more action that we will take to ensure serious consequence for what is atrocious and outrageous conduct on behalf of the Russian people by Putin,’ she told a joint news conference with President Klaus Iohannis at the Cotroceni Presidential Palace.

The Romanian President also said in his turn that in case additional sanctions are needed, they will be applied.

“The sanction packages have been discussed between the US and the European Union we will continue to work together on this. This is the economic side. On the other hand, the two of us just stated that we stand strong together according to Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. And we will continue this way. So, if new sanctions are necessary, they will be discussed and applied,” Iohannis said.

President Iohannis: There are no data indicating that Romania would be targeted by an aggression

There are no data indicating that Romania would be targeted by an aggression, President Klaus Iohannis said on Friday in a joint press statement with visiting US Vice President Kamala Harris.

“I can emphasize that we have no data indicating that Romania would be targeted by an aggression. On the other hand, it is very clear that this action by Russia, this war launched against Ukraine has certainly produced a visible, firm, clear result and that is the unity of NATO and the determination of NATO allies to stand together and defend themselves together,” said President Iohannis at the Cotroceni Presidential Palace.

Long-term US and allied enhanced presence in Romania, needed

President Klaus Iohannis on Friday said that in this tense context there is further need for the US and allied military presence in Romania, on long term, as an additional measure to ensure the country’s and the whole region’s security.

“We have discussed, at the same time, the need, in this tense context, to further increase the US and allied military presence in Romania, on long term, as an additional measure to ensure our country’s security and that of the entire region,” the head of state said at the Cotroceni Presidential Palace.

Iohannis added that he conveyed to the US VP Romania’s commitment to increase defence spending.

“I have conveyed that, in its turn, Romania understands that security starts at home and, in this respect, we have recently taken the initiative to raise the defence spending from 2 percent as it is now, to 2.5 percent [of the GDP], which has been highly appreciated by the US side,” Iohannis mentioned.

The President said that he agreed with the US VP to continue the consolidation of the defence and deterrence measures on the Eastern Flank of the Alliance.

“We have assessed together with Madam Vice President the long term implications of the aggression taking place in Ukraine and the Russian military presence in Belarus on the European and Euro-Atlantic security, including on NATO’s posture. We have established to cooperate in order to continue the consolidation of the defence and deterrence measures on the Eastern Flank, with a focus on its southern part, in the Black Sea region. I have underscored that, in this context, we need to make operational as fast as possible NATO’s Battle Group on Romania’s territory. Overall, Romania’s strategic evaluation is that it becomes necessary to fundamentally rethink the concept, structure and elements of NATO’s posture on the Eastern Flank, taking into account that the current circumstances are consistently different from the moment the current approach on the Eastern Flank was designed. We need a unitary and coherent Enhanced Presence as soon as possible,” the head of state also said.

NATO will act without hesitation to defend every allied state, including Romania

NATO will act without hesitation for the defence of every allied state, including Romania, President Klaus Iohannis said on Friday in a joint press statement with US Vice President Kamala Harris, who is visiting Bucharest.

“Madam Vice President has reaffirmed in our discussions today the full commitment of the United States to Article 5 on the collective defence of NATO’s Washington Treaty. This article contains the essence and spirit of NATO and guarantees that any attempt to affect the security of a NATO state will receive the firm, prompt, decisive response of the entire alliance. I say it with great responsibility: NATO will act without hesitation to defend every allied state, including, of course, Romania. It’s a scenario we all want to avoid, but we, as allies – I say it together with our most important strategic partner – will not yield a single millimeter in terms of compliance with the commitments that bind us. I thanked for these unshakable security guarantees, as the Romanian society has not benefited so far in our history,” Iohannis told a press conference held at the Cotroceni Palace.

He thanked the US Vice President for her presence in Romania “at this crucial time” for the democratic community and Euro-Atlantic security.

“Your visit, Madam Vice President, once again reflects the depth and solidity of the bilateral strategic partnership and the strong commitment of the United States to the security of Romania and its allies on the Eastern Flank. I conveyed to the Vice President Romania’s appreciation for the efforts and leadership of the United States, of President Biden, of herself and of the entire administration in Washington in this very complicated context,” said President Klaus Iohannis.

The head of state added that the ongoing dialogue and close US coordination with Romania, but also with all allies and partners, have made a key contribution to shaping the “unitary and strong response” of the international community to Russia’s actions.

“We have coagulated a strong and prompt response, both in terms of multi-level assistance to Ukraine and the people affected by the conflict, and in terms of sanctions imposed on Russia and measures to adapt the allied posture as a whole, especially on the Eastern Flank,” Iohannis specified.

Energy crisis – opportunity to move to independence from Russian gas through investments in renewable sources

The energy crisis could be a historic opportunity to move to a true European energy independence from Russian gas through investments in renewable sources, President Klaus Iohannis said on Friday in a joint press conference with the US Vice President Kamala Harris, who is visiting Bucharest.

“I have discussed with Madam Vice President also the prospects for energy security. We agreed that this crisis could be a historic opportunity to move towards a true European energy independence from Russian gas by investing in renewable sources, in the civil nuclear sector, through diversification of sources, liquefied natural gas imports and, obviously, through increased interconnection,” Iohannis said.

The head of state brought to mind that, on the sidelines of the meeting of the COP 26 Summit in Glasgow, the joint project Romania – USA for the inclusion of small modular reactors in the national system was launched. “We have agreed to continue and intensify our cooperation on this strategic level,” Iohannis said.

According to the president, this year, on the 25th anniversary of the launch of the Strategic Partnership with the United States, it is “clearly at the highest level in its history.”

“In addition to enhanced cooperation in the field of defence and security and ambitious energy initiatives, we discussed with Madam Vice President to continue to deepen all dimensions of the Strategic Partnership, from the economic one – including by the development of strategic priority regional interconnection projects of interest for Romania – to the consolidation of the scientific cooperation and, of course, of the interpersonal relations,” added the head of state.

Iohannis specified that the discussions also focused on the Visa Waiver program for Romania. “We also discussed the Visa Waiver issue for Romania and we hope to have results along these lines as well,” the head of state said.

It is unimaginable to see such images in the 21st century, in Europe

Attacks in Ukraine such as the one at the maternity in Mariupol or on the humanitarian convoys must be documented, to establish those responsible, nonetheless it is “shaking” to see such images in the 21st century, in Europe, President Klaus Iohannis said on Friday.

“We have discussed these matters, because the images are truly shocking. We have discussed this matter with Madam Vice President as well as yesterday, on the occasion of the EU summit. It is very clear to everyone that such situations must be documented, so that, at the certain time, the relevant authorities and courts can pursue these deeds and fairly establish, on an international level, if there were war crimes, who is responsible and what sanctions they must bear. It is, nonetheless, unimaginable to us all to see such images now, in the 21st century, in a war in Europe. It is shaking,” Iohannis stressed.

We must support the R. of Moldova with a very large number of refugees compared to the population

On Friday, President Klaus Iohannis said that Romania and the United States, along with other allied countries, had provided assistance on many levels to Ukraine, while also mentioning the need to provide support to the Republic of Moldova.

“Today we have also discussed our coordination in responding to these unseen challenges, especially in the humanitarian field. Romania and the United States, along with other allied and partner countries, have provided multilevel assistance to Ukraine and its people, who are resisting with heroism, courage and determination. As you know, we have decided to make operational the humanitarian logistics facility in Suceava, a so-called hub, which, including with the support of the European Union, has the role of collecting and transporting international donations in the field of humanitarian assistance for Ukrainian citizens. We have also invited the United States to support the work of this centre,” Iohannis told a joint press conference with US Vice President Kamala Harris, who is currently paying a visit to Bucharest.

The head of state mentioned that the situation in the Republic of Moldova in terms of the number of refugees is unique and it is necessary to provide support to the neighbouring country.

“We also discussed the much-needed support we must give to the Republic of Moldova. The situation in the neighbouring country is unique in terms of a very large number of refugees compared to the population. And this pressure overlaps on the economic or energy difficulties that the Republic of Moldova has to face,” the President explained.

Compiled from Agerpres

Photo: www.presidency.ro[http://www.presidency.ro]

Click to view image[https://www.nineoclock.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/original_vizita_vp_sua_11_martie_2022_990.jpg]

Cristiana Invest Press SRL

文件 NINEOC0020220311ei3b0005l


CE Noticias Financieras English
Second Mexican plane lands in Romania with humanitarian aid for refugees
282 字
2022 年 3 月 12 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Early Saturday morning, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs (SER), Marcelo Ebrard Casaubón, announced that the second Mexican Air Force plane arrived in Romania.

The plane, in addition to repatriating nationals evacuated from Ukraine, this one was carrying humanitarian aid for Ukrainian refugees from the Russian invasion.

You may be interested in: US detects increase in arrival of Ukrainians and Russians through the border with Mexico

"The second flight to Romania arrives with aid consisting of medicines, mattresses, quilts and other items for the refugee camps in that country," the foreign minister reported.

Through his Twitter account, Ebrard shared a series of images with elements of the Mexican Army with the support sent to the refugees.

He also announced that it will be next week when the plane will return to Mexico City with the nationals.

The previous flight of the Mexican Air Force plane also arrived in Romania and was sent to bring nationals from Ukraine. This flight brought 44 Mexicans and 28 Ukrainians, as well as seven Ecuadorians, one Peruvian and one Australian.

?? Subscribe to our Newsletter and receive the most relevant news in your inbox.

From the beginning, Mexico has made its position on the conflict clear. Ebrard mentioned that the country will not participate in any unilateral sanction against Russia as he emphasized that it is a "historical" principle as well as the principle of non-intervention.

He added that "we have always been against the right of veto, Security Council resolutions have faced a veto from Russia, but it was always considered that there should not be this right of veto", concluded Ebrard.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220312ei3c005zw


EEP's Manfred Weber: We are siding with Ukrainian people, who fights for freedom & democracy
341 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 13:24 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Mar 15 /Agerpres/ - The chairman of the European People's Party (EPP) in the European Parliament, Manfred Weber, who is visiting Bucharest on Tuesday, has noticed the efforts made by the Romanian authorities in support of the refugees, adding that the Ukrainian people is fighting for freedom and democracy.

'It's good to see that all European states have shown that they are open and are ready to receive refugees and help them, offering a home during wartime. It is good to see that we have a common vision, on the European side, regarding the unprovoked aggression from Russia and the sanction package. It is clear what is going on. We are siding with the Ukrainian people. They are fighting for freedom and democracy,' he said, in a press conference, held together with the chairman of the National Liberal Party (PNL) Florin Citu.

Weber also highlighted the authorities in Chisinau for their efforts in managing the refugee crisis.

'Moldova's contribution in managing the migration crisis represents an extraordinary effort. We respect this greatly. The European Union is fully committed in supporting the authorities in Moldova. We are offering a lot of money - humanitarian aid from refugee funds, and this money is well invested in Moldova. We are proud to have a member of EPP as President of Moldova. Maia Sandu is part of our political family and we are doing all we can to help them stabilize the situation over there. We are also seeing the efforts made by the Romanian Government. So, together, Brussels and Bucharest, we are determined to do all that we can in order to stabilize the situation, in order to help,' the EPP leader said.

Florin Citu, the liberal leader, said that discussions were focused on the situation in Ukraine, but also sanctions against Russia, highlighting that 'we are both supporting stronger sanctions against Russia'.AGERPRES(RO - author: Irinela Visan, editor: Andreea Rotaru; EN - author: Catalin Cristian Trandafir, editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220315ei3f002p9


POLITICS
EPP’s Weber in Bucharest: We are siding with the Ukrainian people , they are fighting for freedom and democracy
617 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日
Nine O'Clock Online
NINEOC
英文
Copyright 2022. Nineoclock.ro. All rights reserved.
The chairman of the European People’s Party (EPP) in the European Parliament, Manfred Weber, who is visiting Bucharest on Tuesday, has noticed the efforts made by the Romanian authorities in support of the refugees, adding that the Ukrainian people is fighting for freedom and democracy.

“It’s good to see that all European states have shown that they are open and are ready to receive refugees and help them, offering a home during wartime. It is good to see that we have a common vision, on the European side, regarding the unprovoked aggression from Russia and the sanction package. It is clear what is going on. We are siding with the Ukrainian people. They are fighting for freedom and democracy,” he said, in a press conference, held together with the chairman of the National Liberal Party (PNL) Florin Citu.

Weber also highlighted the authorities in Chisinau for their efforts in managing the refugee crisis.

“Moldova’s contribution in managing the migration crisis represents an extraordinary effort. We respect this greatly. The European Union is fully committed in supporting the authorities in Moldova. We are offering a lot of money – humanitarian aid from refugee funds, and this money is well invested in Moldova. We are proud to have a member of EPP as President of Moldova. Maia Sandu is part of our political family and we are doing all we can to help them stabilize the situation over there. We are also seeing the efforts made by the Romanian Government. So, together, Brussels and Bucharest, we are determined to do all that we can in order to stabilize the situation, in order to help,” the EPP leader said.

Florin Citu, the liberal leader, said that discussions were focused on the situation in Ukraine, but also sanctions against Russia, highlighting that “we are both supporting stronger sanctions against Russia”.

PNL’s Citu: No need for NRRP optimization

An optimization of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NRRP) is not necessary, Chairman of the National Liberal Party (PNL) Florin Citu declared on Tuesday after a meeting in Bucharest with Chair of the European People’s Party Group Manfred Weber.

“Both I and Manfred have made it very clear that Romania remains committed to carrying out all the reforms laid out in the NRRP and there is no European discussion at this moment about rethinking the NRRP. (…) The implementation of the NRRP means money for Romania and if we do it, then of course that money will cover other expenses and we’ll have a broader pool of resources. Things are very simple, this is free money that Romania receives through the NRRP,” said the Liberal leader.

“We talked about EU investments, but also about the danger of leftists floating populist programs which would jeopardize the economic stability of the EU, and both the EPP and the PNL must they remain strong in the face of these programs,” Citu said.

Manfred Weber also referred to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, stating that the European Union is investing in the future and in the post-pandemic recovery process, and that the EPP Group supports Romania’s reform agenda.

“There are two sides of the medal. On the one hand investments, money, European assistance, solidarity from the European taxpayer money, and on the other hand the readiness to do the necessary reforms, and there again I am very happy that our party is on the frontline to defend this reform agenda for a modern, pro-European and competitive Romania,” Weber specified.

Compiled from Agerpres

Photo: Facebook/Florin Citu

Click to view image[https://www.nineoclock.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/citu-weber.jpg]

Cristiana Invest Press SRL

文件 NINEOC0020220315ei3f0005p


Romania supporting Ukraine - News of the Day
1432 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 19:10 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
The 20th day of war in Ukraine. Romania continues its actions to support Ukrainian refugees and Kyiv authorities.

Here is a selection of the main news of Tuesday, March 15:

* NATO's eastern flank must be strengthened in the context of the war in Ukraine, at the level of the one in the Baltic Sea area, in order to prevent any conflict in the area, President Klaus Iohannis said on Tuesday, after the discussions held at the Cotroceni Palace with his Bulgarian counterpart, Rumen Radev.

President Klaus Iohannis reconfirmed Romania's full support for all the refugees from Ukraine who come to our country and presented the measures adopted to help them. The two top officials also discussed the steps taken to provide humanitarian support, including through the operation of the logistics center in northeastern Suceava, which collects and transfers to Ukraine and, if necessary, to the Republic of Moldova, the international aid.

'It is quite possible that the flows of refugees will increase. That is why I have discussed with President Radev the best ways of coordinating so that we can cope well with this crisis without precedent,' President Iohannis said.

The Romanian president stressed the need for the EU, together with all its member states, to provide support to the Republic of Moldova in the context of the large number of Ukrainian refugees, as well as in terms of increasing its resilience.

* The authorities are ready to increase the number of ferries at the southeastern Isaccea border crossing point in Tulcea County to ensure a higher rate of crossing of refugees coming from Ukraine, Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuca said on Tuesday.

'We discussed this aspect, because, as we could see, at this moment, there is a regularity and a number of refugees that can be easily processed, but at the same time, there are data that we have learned from the Ukrainian citizens that beyond the border there are several Ukrainians who are waiting to leave the country and then we discussed what would be the possibilities of processing and transport at the moment that number would increase. With a single ferry it is clear that we cannot ensure a higher fluency and we found out from the Ministry of Transport that there is a reserve in Galati and several ferries can be made available to ensure a higher rate of passage. (...) We can definitely do this,' said Nicolae Ciuca, at the end of the working visit to Vama Isaccea.

* The chairman of the European People's Party (EPP) in the European Parliament, Manfred Weber, who is visiting Bucharest on Tuesday, has noticed the efforts made by the Romanian authorities in support of the refugees, adding that the Ukrainian people is fighting for freedom and democracy.

'It's good to see that all European states have shown that they are open and are ready to receive refugees and help them, offering a home during wartime. It is good to see that we have a common vision, on the European side, regarding the unprovoked aggression from Russia and the sanction package. It is clear what is going on. We are siding with the Ukrainian people. They are fighting for freedom and democracy,' he said, in a press conference, held together with the chairman of the National Liberal Party (PNL) Florin Citu.

* The chairman of the Hungarian Democratic Union of Romania (UDMR), Kelemen Hunor, who is in northern Sighetu Marmatiei for Hungarians Day highlighted that the Western world needs to remain united in order to defeat Russia's expansion.

'Within man resides the most noble desire and virtue, of a divine nature: to live free in dignity. Affirmation of life in front of destruction. Today, the Ukrainian citizens are fighting for freedom. All freedom-loving people are alongside them today. They are on liberty's side. They are against the aggressor, against the Russian invasion. We too are doing the same thing. Today, this is the only right conduct,' Kelemen Hunor specified.

* As of March 14 at 24:00hrs, 425,786 Ukrainian citizens entered Romania, the Romanian General Border Police Inspectorate (IGPF) informs on Tuesday.

* More than 100,000 Ukrainian refugees have crossed the Romanian border through the Siret border crossing point since the outbreak of the armed conflict in the neighbouring country, the spokesman for the Suceava Border Police, Ilie Poroch Seritan, said on Tuesday.

* As many as 75 people from Ukraine are admitted to hospitals in Romania, Health Minister Alexandru Rafila said on Tuesday. As for the number of beds allocated per county for people injured or refugees who have various conditions that require surgery, the Minister of Health said that there are 3,300 beds available.

* More than 45 tonnes of foodstuffs have been sent to Ukraine so far by the Orthodox Diocese of Covasna and Harghita, which has organized humanitarian aid collections for people in conflict areas. Also, the Valcele parish in the Sfantu Gheorghe Archdiocese organized collections and distributed food, water, fruits and basic products to the Siret, Sighet and Isaccea customs, which products have later reached the conflict zones in Ukraine.

* An information point for foreign citizens or stateless persons in special situations from the area of armed conflict in Ukraine will be set up on the A1 Motorway, on the route of the green corridor that passes through Alba County, in Pianu. Thus, according to a decision of the Alba County Committee for Emergency Situations (CJSU), a modular building initially distributed to the Alba Dialysis Center will be relocated at km 316 on the A1 Motorway, and will house an information point for refugees from Ukraine.

* Over 30 persons, Ukrainian women and children refugees, are hosted at the Mogosoaia Palace, with Kata Rudakova, the artistic director of the Bravo Theater in Kyiv, among them. Arrived in Romania initially for a cultural project, she had to remain in Bucharest where she also obtained resident status.

'Following discussions with Ms. Kata, we had the initiative to bring 18 artists from Kyiv that we are hosting here and that we are supporting in their artistic activity. Unfortunately we didn't manage. Instead we brought eight children from Cernauti [Chernivtsi in Ukrainian - e.n.], who, are also pupils of the Art School, two of them being students at the Arts University in Cernauti. All of them are conducting their activity in creation workshops within the palace. (...) Meanwhile, there are 32 refugees, most of them mothers with children, and they have a relaxed program because the purpose is for them to feel good and, somehow, disconnect them from the tension of the war. Many are in transit, leaving towards western Europe, but many expressed their desire to remain in Romania,' the manager of the cultural center also added.

The Mogosoaia Palace is hosting, in its Lapidarium hall, the work titled 'Cross of the Tree of Life,' done by Kata Roudakova, a copy of the 'Cross of Miracles' or 'Flower Cross', in a direct translation from its Slavonic name. The original is in the Arochena museum in Mexico.

'The icon is called 'Cross of Miracles' or 'Flower Cross', translated directly from its Slavonic name. In the Romanian tradition this icon is called the 'Cross of the Tree of Life'. The cross shows the entirety of human existence, and the tablets on the icon describe the crown of the Christian faith, that written by Petru Movila, a Moldovan prince who founded the first academy of studies in Eastern Europe, in Kyiv, and to whom we owe the text on this icon. The icon is unique through the fact that it has the text in Romanian with Slavonic characters. It is not a canonical icon because Jesus crucified is depicted with his eyes partly open,' said, for AGERPRES, Nicoleta Zagura, the person responsible for the scientific research and artistic concept of the work.

* World Vision has shipped more than 100,000 food items to hospitals in Ukraine, according to a statement released by the organisation on Tuesday. The organisation distributed a second shipment of mattresses, detergents and other essential supplies.

* In the account opened by the Red Cross Suceava, aimed at acquiring necessary materials for granting humanitarian aid for Ukraine, donations were deposited until now, summing up 544,993 RON, the northeastern Suceava Prefecture informed on Tuesday. Currently, there are 6,220 accommodation spots for Ukrainian refugees put at their disposal by the Archdiocese of Suceava and Radauti, the other religious cults that are activating in the county area, territorial administrative units, economic operators and individuals, of which 900 are occupied.AGERPRES(EN - editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220315ei3f004h5


President Iohannis: NATO does not desire military conflict with Russia
320 字
2022 年 3 月 17 日 17:36 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Mar 17 /Agerpres/ - President Klaus Iohannis stated, on Thursday, that imposing a no-fly zone over Ukraine cannot be done practically, as NATO does not desire a military conflict with the Russian Federation, mentioning that Romania has rallied to this clear position.

'NATO does not desire a military conflict with the Russian Federation. NATO desires to perform whatever may be performed to not allow the war to extend beyond the borders it is currently in. The measures that NATO has taken, that the European Union has taken are of the economic sanction type. As a consequence, the imposition of a no-fly zone cannot be done practically, as such a no-fly zone can only be imposed militarily and we do not want to create the premises for the extension of the armed conflict in Ukraine. This position is very clear and Romania has rallied to this position,' said Iohannis, asked on the topic at the joint press conference held together with Estonian President Alar Karis at the Cotroceni Presidential Palace.

The President of Estonia stated, in his turn, that imposing such a no-fly zone is a 'difficult matter'.

He went on to say that while the Estonian Parliament adopted a statement in support of such a measure, the matter is difficult, as it would involve NATO and Russia coming in direct contact, which is something that is not desirable at this time. He also stated his belief that at some point such a zone may have to be instituted.

The Parliament of Estonia (Riikokogu) has requested the institution of a no-fly zone over Ukraine and encouraged the European Union and NATO to consolidate the alliance with this country. The request was adopted with 90 votes for out of a possible 101 (number of MP seats). (RO - author: Alina Novaceanu, editor: Claudia Stanescu; EN - editor: Razvan-Adrian Pandea)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220317ei3h003pd


News; Domestic
Ukraine: Survivors Emerging From Bombed Mariupol Theater; Biden To Speak With President Xi Amid Rising Concerns China Could Give Financial, Military Aid To Russia; Veteran War Photographer Captures Heartbreaking Images In Ukraine. Aired 9-10p ET
Anderson Cooper, Frederik Pleitgen, Wesley Clark, Phil Mattingly, Fareed Zakaria, Miguel Marquez, Randi Kaye
6888 字
2022 年 3 月 17 日
CNN: Anderson Cooper 360°
COOPER
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[21:00:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: There was, in all the other developments, today, a remarkable plea, from the son of a man, who had once been in the same position, as the Russian troops, now surrounding, and laying siege, to cities, here.

His father was in the Wehrmacht, fighting for the Hitler's Germany, taking part in the German siege, of Leningrad, which killed hundreds of thousands of civilians.

Today, that soldier's son, former California governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, put out this message, to Russian citizens, and Russian troops, imploring them, not to do, what his father did, or be tormented by the memories of it, as he was, for the rest of his life.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER, (R) FORMER GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA: And let me tell you, when my father arrived, in Leningrad, he was all pumped up, on the lies, of his government.

When he left Leningrad, he was broken, physically and mentally. He lived the rest of his life, in pain. Pain from a broken back, pain from the shrapnel that always reminded him, of those terrible years, and pain from the guilt that he felt.

To the Russian soldiers, listening to this broadcast, you already know much of the truth that I've been speaking. You've seen it with your own eyes. I don't want you to be broken, like my father.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

COOPER: It's a really remarkable, and very personal message.

Today, Ukraine's President also referred back to the Second World War. He said the phrase that was birthed in the horrors of it, "Never again," is now, quote, in his words, "Worthless."

[21:05:00] The remarks came in a speech, to the German Parliament, on a day here that saw fresh horrors, all across the country, and in that city of Mariupol, at least some possible measure of hope.

CNN's Fred Pleitgen is with me, here, in Lviv. What do we know about what's going on with the theater?

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I mean, there is that little glimmer of hope, as you put it. But, the same time, you have these rescue crews that are out there, and they can't actually get to the people, because there's so much rubble, on top of them.

And there's another really staggering number that I got today, is that in the three weeks that this conflict has been going on, 80 percent of the buildings, in Mariupol have been damaged, 30 percent, beyond any sort of repair.

And that's one of the reasons why it's so difficult to get people out of that building, or out of the cellar of that building, is because they still face so many attacks, by the Russian Military, between 50 and 100 attacks per day.

COOPER: Wow!

PLEITGEN: And it's not only in Mariupol. It's in other cities as well. Here's what we're learning.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PLEITGEN (voice-over): As Vladimir Putin's military rains bombs, rockets and artillery, on Ukraine, civilians are paying the highest price. Scores killed and maimed.

In Chernihiv, north of Kyiv, rescue workers dig out the bodies, of an entire family, killed, when a residential building was hit.

Dozens more civilians lost their lives, in attacks. The Ukrainian government now confirming that U.S. citizen James Whitney Hill was among those killed.

(on camera): (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

(voice-over): I asked Chernihiv's Mayor, to tell me, about the situation, in his city.

MAYOR VLADYSLAV ATROSHENKO, CHERNIHIV, UKRAINE (through translator): The intensity of the shelling has increased. It's been indiscriminate, apparently random. We're not talking about certain military infrastructure buildings being bombed. In reality, houses are being destroyed. Schools and kindergartens are being destroyed.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): This graphic video shows the gruesome aftermath, of an attack, on people, waiting in a breadline, in the same town. Witnesses say, at least 10 civilians were killed. Russia's military cynically claiming, it wasn't them. MAJ. GEN. IGOR KONASHENKOV, RUSSIAN ARMY (through translator): All units of the Russian Armed Forces, are outside Chernihiv, blocking the roads. And no offensive actions are being taken, against the city.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): Other cities are getting shelled, as well. One of the hardest-hit, Mariupol, in the southeast. Several were killed, and wounded, mostly women and children, when a maternity ward, and children's hospital, were hit, last week.

And then, the main theater, where the U.S. believes hundreds of people had taken shelter, was bombed. A small miracle, the bomb shelter under the building, held up, helping some of those inside, survive. Though it's still unclear, how many.

Authorities say, efforts to pull people, from the rubble, are being hindered, by the total breakdown, of public services, and the threat of further Russian attacks.

Aerial images show the building was clearly marked as having children inside, leaving Ukraine's Defense Minister, irate.

OLEKSII REZNIKOV, UKRAINIAN DEFENSE MINISTER: You can see from the maps, from the drones that are around this, there's a big letters of "Children," were written, so that the pilot of the plane which was throwing the bombs could see. And still, in spite of that, this monster has bombed the theater.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): Russia has denied it was responsible for the attack. And the Russians claim, they only target military installations, sending out this video, of them, allegedly destroying Ukrainian howitzers.

But the U.K.'s Defense Ministry says the Russians are increasingly hitting cities, with heavy and less accurate weapons, because they're simply running out of precise munitions, as the war drags on.

Experts believe, it will only get worse.

MASON CLARK, LEAD RUSSIA ANALYST, INSTITUTE FOR THE STUDY OF WAR: They're very intentionally targeting, water stations, and power supplies, and internet towers, and cell phone towers, and that sort of thing, in a very deliberate attempt, to make it more difficult, for the defenders, to hold out, and try and force them to capitulate.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): But despite bringing massive firepower, on civilian areas, the U.S. and its Allies, say Russia's offensive in Ukraine has stalled, and recent territorial gains have been minimal.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

PLEITGEN: And it's really interesting, because there's a new assessment, also, by the British Military today that the Russians still can't get their logistics going, have a lot of problems with that. Also, facing, of course, attacks, from the Ukrainian Military, that also diminishes their offensive power. So, you have these massive attacks on civilians. COOPER: Yes.

PLEITGEN: Very little gain, on the battlefield.

COOPER: Yes. Fred Pleitgen, I appreciate it. Thanks so much.

For a closer look, at all things military, three weeks into this war, we're joined now by William Cohen, who served as Defense Secretary, in the Clinton administration. Also, CNN Military analyst, retired Army General and former NATO Supreme Allied Commander, General Wesley Clark.

General Clark, the U.K. Ministry of Defence, said today, as Fred just mentioned that the invasion has largely stalled, on all fronts. If that's accurate, what is Russia's next move, then?

GEN. WESLEY CLARK (RET.), FORMER NATO SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER, CNN MILITARY ANALYST, SENIOR FELLOW, UCLA BURKLE CENTER: I think Russia's next move, is to rebuild its logistics, recruit a bunch of mercenaries, and continue the pressure, on Ukraine.

[21:10:00]

Don't be fooled, by the negotiations. The negotiations are a pause. It's an effort, to cover, what Russia is doing. They're going to rebuild, their logistics, bring in more shells, bring in more people, bring in more systems, and keep the pressure on, in an effort, to break Zelenskyy, and show that the West's support, for Ukraine, is inadequate.

COOPER: Secretary Cohen, what then does the Ukraine try to do? If that is the reality, if this is - if this is just at a time, when they're going to try to rebuild, from the rear, bring in more armaments, and recruit mercenaries, what does Ukraine do?

WILLIAM COHEN, FORMER DEFENSE SECRETARY, CEO, THE COHEN GROUP: Well, Ukraine is going to continue to suffer hardship. We can be inspired by their courage, and their resilience, to date. But the fact is, the Russians will be even more brutal.

And that is why I still, maybe wishful thinking, on my part, but I still think the Chinese have an opportunity, to help solve this problem, before it gets any worse.

Again, maybe wishful thinking, but I think President Biden's going to have to ask the Chinese, is Russian oil thicker than Ukrainian blood? And their answer, maybe yes. If that's the case, I think, it will serve to, I guess, impact the Chinese, not immediately, but down the line.

Because, every year, there's a conference in China, called the China Development Forum, in which many of the top CEOs, of the major companies, in the world, meet. And, during that time, they're asking for Western investment. That's going to be harder to get now, if they do, in fact, turn away, from trying to help here. And then, secondly, they always ask for help, on the part of the United States, and other Western countries, to help the children, in the middle of China, the poor areas of China.

Again, it's going to be hard, for them, to ask the West, to help their children, if they're standing by, and watching the bloody massacre that's taking place, by their new best friend.

COOPER: General Clark, how does Ukraine fight against Russian artillery? I mean, we know they'd like to "Close the sky," is the term they're using. But a lot of the damage that's being done, to residential areas, to other sites, and militarily, as well, is from Russian artillery, long-range, ballistic missiles, and the like. How does Ukraine fight against that?

W. CLARK: They do have some counter-battery radars. But they're short- range radars. They do have some artillery that they can fire back in a counter-battery battle. But Anderson, the key thing is that Ukraine cannot stand out there, and wait, in a perimeter, and wait to be attacked.

Ukrainian soldiers have to take the offensive. They have to move out, from those cities, in small groups, hunt and killed the Russians that are closing in on them. This is a critical thing to be done. Now, they've got to consume that Russian Military, before it can be reinforced.

So, you have to look at it this way, where the Russians bring their military, in close, they make themselves targets. Ukrainians have the Javelins. They have the Stingers. They've got the courage. They've got the skill. They know the local area. They got to go out there, and dig them out. That's the only way they're going to win this.

COOPER: Secretary Cohen, if - the other aspect, about China, is, I mean, if they do choose, to help Russia, militarily, economically, I mean, they would be in violation of these sanctions.

COHEN: The likelihood is that they would be receiving - would be on the receiving end of those sanctions, as well, which can hit their economy, fairly hard.

I think the Chinese share the same view, as the Russians do, of the United States, in particular, but the West in general, that the United States, is in a period of moral decay, from within, and on political dysfunctionality.

And so, what their goal now, is to split the European countries, away from the United States, and then think that the United States, will devour itself, with infighting, between the Democrats and Republicans, or right-wing and the left-wing.

So, I think, they're counting in the long run that the United States will no longer be the power that it once was, and they will be in a position, with Russia, to shape the international order, in ways that they design, rather than the West. COOPER: Yes. I mean, it's terrifying to hear, as you said, the Chinese assessment, of politics, in the U.S., and how those - that polarization, in their view, will lead to the downfall of the U.S.

Secretary Cohen, I appreciate it. General Clark, as well.

Next, to Secretary Cohen's point, more, on the China factor. A live report, from the White House, where the President's preparing, for tomorrow's, high-stakes phone call, with the Chinese President.

Later, my conversation, with acclaimed photographer, Heidi Levine, about what she has seen, in her time, here.

[21:15:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: Just a day after unveiling $800 million, in military assistance, to Ukraine, and with sanctions, tightening, on Russia, President Biden, tomorrow, will address the wild card. We spoke about it before the break, the one country that could blunt the effects, of those sanctions, and affect the military balance, if it chooses.

The country, of course, is China. The President speaks to Chinese President, tomorrow.

CNN's Phil Mattingly joins us now, from the White House, with the latest, on that.

What do we expect, from this call?

PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anderson, White House officials know the stakes, and they know the President knows the stakes, and the preparation, behind-the-scenes, has certainly backed up the stakes, of this moment. But so have the public comments.

Secretary of State Antony Blinken becoming the highest-ranking official today, to make explicit U.S. concerns. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE: We believe China, in particular, has a responsibility, to use its influence, with President Putin, and to defend the international rules and principles that it professes to support.

[21:20:00]

Instead, it appears that China is moving in the opposite direction, by refusing to condemn this aggression, while seeking to portray itself, as a neutral arbiter. And we're concerned that they are considering, directly assisting Russia, with military equipment, to use in Ukraine.

(END VIDEO CLIP) MATTINGLY: And Anderson, those concerns have grown, more palpable, over the course of the last several days, due to both Intelligence that American officials have collected, and just general confusion, about the ambiguity, of the Chinese position.

The idea that China hasn't necessarily chosen, one side or the other, and that flies in the face, of long-stated China policy, related to the sovereignty of nations.

The President has made clear, he's had a relationship with President Xi Jinping, over the course of time, particularly when he was Vice President. And U.S. officials believe that a one-to-one call, is critical, to trying to move China, off the current fence, an unsustainable balancing act, one official told me, and trying to get some better sense, of where China actually stands.

The threats, at this point, are very real, of U.S. repercussions, should China start to move in, to assist Russia. But they still believe at this point that hasn't happened yet. President Biden will try and ensure that remains the case, Anderson.

COOPER: Is there any sense of what the consequences would be, if China did help Russia?

MATTINGLY: White House officials, Anderson, have been very tight- lipped, about what would actually be on the table.

But they have communicated, in the nearly seven-hour meeting, between President Biden's National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, and his Chinese counterpart, last week, in Rome, exactly what they would be.

And President Biden is expected to be direct and very clear, according to one official, when he speaks directly, to President Xi Jinping. But there's a broader issue here as well that I'm told President Biden will try to illustrate, in this phone call.

And that is that the geopolitical and economic repercussions, are much bigger, than passing one threshold, or a certain set of sanctions. They will largely define and dictate, the next several years, if not longer, in terms of the world order.

That is something the President wants to get across, particularly as China and the U.S. have been the kind of competing world powers. If that competition is to exist, and not move in a darker direction, the relationship needs to stay at least somewhat stable, Anderson.

COOPER: Yes. Phil Mattingly, I appreciate it.

With that, on the table, and the geopolitical stakes, running high, I want to check in, with CNN's Fareed Zakaria, Host of "FAREED ZAKARIA GPS."

So Fareed, will this call - it'll be the first call, between President Biden, and his Chinese counterpart, since Russia invaded Ukraine. What do you think the President needs to convey? FAREED ZAKARIA, CNN HOST, FAREED ZAKARIA GPS: It's a very consequential call. It's one of the highest stakes diplomacy - diplomatic issues that the President is dealing with.

I think what he needs to convey, to the Chinese, are, is, look, your - China's main economic relations, are with Europe, and the United States. China trades 10 times as much, with Europe, and the United States, as it does with Russia.

It needs to recognize that in order to maintain that relationship, in order to maintain its integration, into the world, it has to get off the ball, and it has to recognize that the Russian invasion of Ukraine, is a violation of every norm that China has advocated.

And he should point out that the United States wants to have a good working relationship with China. China's a competitor, but it does not have to be an enemy. But if China were to choose? So, you have to convey, I think, there is an upside, for China, with all this. But the downside could be very substantial.

You were asking, Anderson. The United States still has two extraordinary powers. The power of the dollar. It could freeze Chinese banks, Chinese companies, out of the international payment system, using its ability, the power it has, with the dollar.

The second part, which I haven't seen people talk about, is the United States is also an energy superpower. China is the world's largest importer of liquefied natural gas. If China were to violate sanctions, by aiding Russia, they are then in violation, themselves.

The United States could well decide to sanction all the Chinese - all the natural gas that's going to China. So, then you have a China that doesn't have integration into international financial markets, the dollar, and it doesn't have energy. And that would trigger a recession, in China.

So, there is a very substantial weapon that the United States could use. Obviously, these things should be thought about carefully. But the stakes are very high.

We have joined this battle. Russia cannot win this struggle, against Ukraine. The United States has to be - and its allies, have to prevail. And if that means playing tough, with China, the President will have to play tough with China.

[21:25:00]

COOPER: China doesn't want, though, a resurgent unified NATO. Does it? I mean, that doesn't seem to be in China's playbook, or to their advantage, as they see it. And if the U.S. does, you know, if Russia is defeated, in Ukraine, doesn't NATO become more important, and more powerful?

ZAKARIA: So, China doesn't really have, very much to do, with NATO. All China's issues, in terms of security, geopolitics, the issues, they bring up, have to do with East Asia, Southeast Asia. It's not a large issue.

For them, what has happened, under Xi, China has decided that American hegemony, is both unsustainable and bad for China. And so anything that erodes that hegemony, anything that attacks American power, China has tended to either tacitly or openly support.

It's a very bad decision, by Xi Jinping. And it has not really served China's interests. China has alienated Australia, alienated Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, India, the European Union, over the last five years or six years. Xi's wolf warrior diplomacy has only ended up making China, this is the Pew survey's, the most distrusted and disliked large country in the world.

So, I don't think - I mean, the question is, do the Chinese realize, they have gotten in bed, with Vladimir Putin, a guy, who - first of all, a failing economy, I think it's about a tenth the size of China's, a declining nation, and a country that is getting them, into all kinds of geopolitical trouble?

China needs to maintain good relations with Europe and the United States. That's who invest in China. That's who buy Chinese products.

So, it's a very self-defeating kind of policy. But Xi seems to be one of these populist nationalists, who - for whom, the emotional content of his policy, has become more important, than the rational deliberation. This is a very far cry from the wise farseeing Chinese foreign policy we used to see, under Deng Xiaoping, and his successors.

COOPER: Yes. Fareed Zakaria, fascinating. I really appreciate it. Thank you, Fareed.

Coming up, the sorrow and determination, of the Ukrainian people, being documented, for the world, by a longtime photojournalist, who's seeing these moments, firsthand, up close, through her lens. She joins me, next.

[21:30:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: Tonight, with the war, in its fourth week, we are looking at the story, behind some of the most remarkable images that the world has been seeing.

Heidi Levine, is covering the war, for "The Washington Post." Her award-winning photography, capturing wars, and revolution, goes back 40 years, nearly.

She joined me earlier, from Kyiv.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

COOPER: Heidi, thanks for joining us. I really so admire your work. Your photographs are so human, you know? I'm seeing that man, being carried on the back, of somebody else, and the look, in his face. I mean, you can imagine that man - the woman, in the wheelbarrow, being your grandfather, being your father, it's - they're just.

HEIDI LEVINE, PHOTOJOURNALIST, THE WASHINGTON POST: I mean, to be honest, I mean, people always ask me, what is, like, how do you do this kind of work? How does - how do you deal with what you see?

And that night, I mean, I'd literally like woken, at 3 o'clock, in the morning, with a nightmare. And I mean, I could not help, but to imagine, like, when I was filing my pictures, besides documenting, and witnessing what I'm witnessing at - in the moment, and coming back, and then looking at all these images, again, and editing, and writing captions, and it's just like, it really hit me like beyond description.

Because I can't - I mean, all I want to write, in my caption is like, what is - what if this was your grandmother? I mean, how would you feel? I mean, how do these people cope? I mean, and that, I want my audience to try to connect, to my work.

And imagine like, what if you just had an hour, or even less, to try to like, pack up what you can carry, including your children, your grandparents, or any other family members, and like, they don't even have time, to even pack their photo albums?

Can you imagine, just like fleeing, and leaving your whole family history behind, never understanding - not - never knowing that you may not even be able to return, to your own home, I mean.

COOPER: Yes.

LEVINE: That's what I want the audience to understand. I mean, this could be them. This could be me, you know?

The camera lens doesn't stop me from feeling, because I'm on the other side of the camera. I mean, I cannot prevent myself from, even crying, in the moment, or hugging people, or, stopping, to photograph, to help people. And I have to say that so many of my colleagues are doing that.

COOPER: But you also took pictures, of a guy named, Alex, who, this was extraordinary to me, he's volunteering - he's volunteering, in a morgue, in his community. He's not an experienced - I mean, this is not what he does for a living. He is volunteering.

LEVINE: This is someone, I met, earlier today, and outside the morgue. And you looked at him, and you could just see - I mean, you can smell death there. You can see death, just by what he's wearing, the expression on his face. This is not his job. He's volunteering. He's actually a marketing manager, in his real life.

And he's told me that, no - I mean, I, his quote, I mean, I can quote him, as saying, like, "Nobody can handle doing what I'm doing, for more than two or three days, because it's just too horrific," quote, unquote, "I've already seen more than 10 bodies today, and the day is not even over."

COOPER: Yes. You also document the new life. You document - you took photographs of an expectant mother, in the hallway of an underground makeshift maternity ward--

LEVINE: Yes.

COOPER: --there, in Kyiv. I mean, to know what it's like, to be in a hospital, with somebody, about to give birth, I mean, in these conditions, it's just that - I just find that photograph extraordinary.

[21:35:00]

LEVINE: Well, thank you. First of all, I mean, these mothers, or even the women that have already given birth that I met, are frightened. They don't know where they're going, if they're going to have a home, to go back to, once they give birth, or their newborns are released from the hospital.

One mother said to me, "I was dreaming that when I gave birth, my whole family would be with me, with flowers and candy. And here, look at me," and she was just crying. And, I mean, it's just horrible. I mean, I'm a mother of three children. I know what it's like to give birth. And it is really scary, in normal life, let alone, under these horrific conditions.

COOPER: Some of the photographs, obviously, are extremely hard to look at, but so, I think, important, because it is the reality, of what's happening here.

LEVINE: Look, war is horrible. It's horrific. And is - you can't sugarcoat it. It is terrible.

And then, it's, I can't imagine, any family, on either side of this conflict, not suffering in some way. I don't know what the situation is, for these mothers, in Russia that know that their sons have been killed. Do they know? Will they know? Will their bodies ever be returned? I mean, these are all, really important questions.

But the bottom line is, a lot of people are dying, a lot of people, suffering. All of the attacks that I have covered, so far, during this war, have been on civilians. And it's really important, for the world, to know, the extent, and the impact, on civilian life, here on Ukraine.

COOPER: Yes. Heidi, I can't imagine how difficult it is, every day. But your work matters. And I appreciate you talking to us, about it.

LEVINE: Well, thank you very much. And first, and I really would like to also express, my condolences, to everyone, who has lost someone, or lost their home, and also to the families, of my colleagues, who were tragically killed, here, in Ukraine.

COOPER: Yes. Heidi Levine, thank you. Be careful.

LEVINE: Well, thank you very much.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

COOPER: I think it's valuable, in a situation, like this, to look at a war, look at a situation, like this, from as many different angles, as possible, and talking to some of the photojournalists, over the last three weeks, as we have been.

The reason - one of the reasons we do it, is just to kind of give you a sense of how seriously, so many of the people, who are working, in this situation, take what they - what they do, and how they do it, and the respect that they show people, when they're taking photographs, when they're asking them questions. And I think you see that, in Heidi's work, and hopefully, in that conversation.

Just ahead, Ukrainian refugees, who now call Romania, home. Our Miguel Marquez shares, how one city is opening its arms, to those, who have lost, almost everything.

[21:40:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: Earlier, I spoke, with Samantha Power, current head of the U.S. Agency for International Development.

She talks about the extreme difficulty, of getting refugees out, and that if you live in one of the besieged areas, it's excruciating. Little food, water, or medicine, even she said, reports of dehydration deaths, which we've heard about, in the city of Mariupol.

Our Miguel Marquez, met some of the fortunate Ukrainians, who were able to escape. They're now experiencing life, as refugees, in a Romanian city that has opened its arms, to them.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Who are all these people?

OLGA KEEPER, FROM ODESSA, UKRAINE: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

MARQUEZ (voice-over): "Friends, fellow citizens, and colleagues," she says, "family too." All from Donbas, in eastern Ukraine. Refugees, after the war there, in 2014. Refugees, again.

ANTONINA MIKHAILOVA, FROM OUTSIDE ODESSA, UKRAINE: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

MARQUEZ (voice-over): "Some people cross the border, on foot," she says, "Two borders." Not everyone is lucky, as 86-year-old Antonina Mikhailova, who had arrived. She survived World War II. Now, she's in an apartment, in Central Romania, with her daughter, lots of friends, and her cat, named Lucia (ph).

MIKHAILOVA: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE). MARQUEZ (voice-over): "My childhood was spent, during the war," she says. "Now, in my old age, there is war again. And for what? In the name of all people, God, please stop the war."

The medieval city of Brasov, not far from Dracula's Castle, is preparing 1,000 beds, for Ukrainian refugees. Those beds, in a hotel, in its historic center, a business development center, and a brand-new apartment building, in the new part of town.

MAYOR ALLEN COLIBAN, BRASOV, ROMANIA: The main challenge is how to scale it up, because this is only the first wave of refugees.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Olga keeper, from Odessa, is here with her two daughters.

MARQUEZ (on camera): How do you feel being here?

KEEPER: Oh! (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

MARQUEZ (voice-over): "Other than perfect," she says, "they gave us medicine, and new beds. They fed us." Then added, "It's very, very, very good."

The city of Brasov, preparing for even more refugees, who the Mayor believes, will need even more support, and possibly stay, for a long time.

COLIBAN: If you're a mother, with a child, you can come to Brasov. We can - we can offer you a job. We can offer. And we are discussing about solutions for daycare, for children, how to integrate them, in the educational system.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): The city, planning the future, but meeting basic needs, too, coordinating with local restaurants, providing thousands of meals. Today, on St. Patrick's Day, prepared by Deane's Irish Pub. Luck of the Irish!

ALINA COLCERU, DEANE'S IRISH PUB & GRILL: It's more than just providing meals. And we're kind of providing hope to them. And they do need that. And we can see that on their faces. And I think that's really important.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Tatiana Kiriukhina, and Natalya Zhivilka, mother and daughter, from Mykolaiv, got here, only three days ago.

[21:45:00]

NATALYA ZHIVILKA, FROM MYKOLAIV, UKRAINE: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

MARQUEZ (voice-over): "If not for the help, here," she says, "I don't think our nerves could have taken it. There were air raids, day and night. We couldn't eat. We couldn't sleep."

TATIANA KIRIUKHINA, FROM MYKOLAIV, UKRAINE: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

MARQUEZ (voice-over): "In Mykolaiv," she says, "the planes were flying, right over our heads, flying, flying, flying. I can't find words to explain. It's very scary."

KIRIUKHINA: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Antonina Mikhailova has a simple wish.

MIKHAILOVA: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

MARQUEZ (voice-over): "In my old age, I only wanted peace, and prosperity," she says. Then added, "I like everything to be OK. But, for now, it's not."

(END VIDEOTAPE)

COOPER: And Miguel joins us now.

I mean, it sounds like, they're preparing, for refugees, to be there, for a very long time. How long, in the future, are officials planning for? I mean, do they even know?

MARQUEZ: Yes. Look, we're planning sort of days, and weeks, at first. But now, at least here, in Brasov. In other areas, we've seen, here, in Romania, they are looking at weeks, or months, into years, at this point.

They're also looking at many more weeks, of waves of refugees, coming over, from Ukraine, as the Russians move west, and as that fire becomes more indiscriminate, in civilian areas. So, they are planning, for a long time. It's going to be a marathon, Anderson.

COOPER: Yes. Miguel Marquez, appreciate it, as always, thank you.

Coming up, a look into the difficult journey, one brother took, to rescue his sister, from the war, in Ukraine.

[21:50:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: So, we reported, earlier, after facing pressure, to boost support for Ukraine, the Biden administration, is now looking, at ways, to help reunite Ukrainian refugees, with their families, in the U.S.

Despite the President's promise, to welcome Ukrainians, with open arms, the journey to the U.S., can be incredibly difficult, especially for one man, who had to navigate multiple challenges, just to bring his sister, to the U.S.

Randi Kaye has their story.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ALEKSANDR MURGA, FLEW TO UKRAINE TO GET SISTER: I felt like being here, it's not really helpful. I got to go. I got to be there.

RANDI KAYE, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): And, just like that, Aleksandr Murga, booked a ticket, from Florida, to Eastern Europe, to help get his sister, safely, out of Ukraine in the region.

Marisha (ph) Murga was living in Zhytomyr, about 90 miles, from Kyiv, when the Russian bombs, started to fall.

KAYE (on camera): How worried were you about her?

MURGA: You stay shake - kind of shaken, all the time, because it's you want to be there. You want to support her. You want to hug her. You want to somehow protect her.

KAYE (voice-over): Aleksandr made a plan, with Marisha (ph), to meet her in Poland. He left his home, outside Orlando, around the same time, she left hers, in Ukraine.

Marisha (ph) drove 14 hours, to a border crossing, then waited another 14 hours, to cross over, into Poland. Her husband stayed to fight. But finally, she managed to get to Poland's Rzeszow (ph) airport. And that's where she reunited, with her brother.

Without Aleksandr's help getting her a visa, Marisha (ph) would be stuck in Poland. It wasn't easy. First, he tried the U.S. Embassy, in Warsaw.

MURGA: I'm standing, right now, in front of the United States Embassy. Doesn't really matter, if you're from United States or not, all they do is pretty much get pushed away from the door.

KAYE (voice-over): But Aleksandr kept trying, all the while, helping others, at the Polish border, at Rava-Ruska. These are pictures of other family members, Aleksandr helped find safety, 12 in all. He says he also helped at least 30 strangers, get aid, and somewhere to stay. It was all very emotional, for him, even though he left Ukraine, 17 years ago.

(on camera): What did you see on the ground there?

MURGA: Things that none of us should ever see. It's all those people coming out and crying. I saw people here, not - not being able to hold on, like they do. It's really emotional. I know I'm not able to go there now, help them from inside, and fight. But seeing them - give me a minute.

KAYE (on camera): OK.

MURGA: Seeing all them, out there, being so strong, and it's just heartbreaking. I didn't expect to see my country.

KAYE (voice-over): Despite the emotional toll, Aleksandr wasn't leaving Poland, without his sister. So, he tried another embassy, in Krakow, and was finally able to get his sister, a visa. They landed, last night, in Orlando. The first time, Marisha (ph) stepped foot, on U.S. soil.

(on camera): Will you go back?

Absolutely. The first thing, that I'm going to do, I'm just going to go back. We have to - we have to go back. They need us. They need support. All those houses, infrastructure, everything has to be rebuilt. Has been destroyed.

(on camera): How grateful are the two of you to be sitting here together?

MURGA: The best - the best feeling, the best thing in the world, is being able to hug my sister.

KAYE (voice-over): And while Marisha (ph) didn't speak much English, in our interview, she surprised us with this message of thanks.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thanks for all people, all country, who help my country, and my people.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

COOPER: How many other family members does Aleksandr still having in Ukraine?

KAYE: Anderson, he figures, at least 20 family members, are still there. Mostly men, including Marisha's (ph) husband. Also, her mother- in-law's there. She's a pharmacist, and chose to stay behind, so she could dole out medicine to those in need.

But unfortunately, Aleksandr told me that they can't locate one of his sisters. She has a 16-year-old son. They live in Mariupol, and they haven't been able to reach them, in a couple of weeks. So, they're very concerned about that.

[21:55:00]

But on a bright note, Anderson, he did bring his sister back, to the United States, yesterday, last night. It happened to be his parents' wedding anniversary. And he said it was the greatest gift he could have given them, Anderson.

COOPER: Randi, appreciate it. What a lovely report! Thank you.

We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: You can see the QR code, on the bottom of the screen, right now. You could take out your phone, and scan it, and that'll take you to a podcast that I've been doing, while I've been here. It's called "Tug of War."

In the latest episode, I talk with CNN's Sara Sidner, about her reporting, on the border, or the refugee crisis, and what she has been seeing, throughout Poland and Ukraine.

And Sara sees, what makes her such a great reporter, are these moments that others might miss. She has this really unique ability to capture them, and weave them into the story that she's been telling. We talked about that, how she does that, and why those moments are so important, in detailing the struggle, of the people, caught in this conflict.

I also have a conversation, with Clarissa Ward, in another podcast, and Nick Paton Walsh.

Again, if you want to listen, scan the camera, on your phone, over the QR code. Right now, on the screen, you can find it. Or you can just go and find it on your favorite podcast. It's called "Tug of War."

Stay with CNN, for the latest, from Ukraine. The news continues, right now. Want to turn things over to Don, who is in Slovakia, tonight.

Don?

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 COOPER0020220318ei3h00001


Romania This Week - March 18, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 3 月 18 日, 10674 字, (英文)
Banca Transilvania expects Romania’s GDP to grow 3.5% in 2022, deficits to narrowRomania’s economy will grow by 3.5% this year and by 4.5% on average in the coming two years, while the twin deficits would shrink considerably over the coming...

News; Domestic
U.S. Says, Clear Evidence Of War Crimes Amid Russia's Deadly New Attacks; Biden Holds Call With European Leaders On Ukraine War; U.N. Says, Nearly 3.5 Million Ukrainians Have Fled The Country; Historic Hearings For Supreme Court Nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson. Aired 6-7p ET
Wolf Blitzer, Alex Marquardt, Sam Kiley, Kaitlan Collins, Ivan Watson, Miguel Marquez, Brian Todd, Jessica Schneider
6433 字
2022 年 3 月 21 日
CNN: The Situation Room
CNNTSR
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[18:00:03]

WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: Russia's assault in Ukraine threatening more innocent lives by hour as President Zelenskyy makes a new plea aimed at preventing World War III.

Also breaking, the first black woman nominated to the U.S. Supreme Court gives her opening statement at her historic confirmation hearing. We're going to break down what Kentanji Brown Jackson said today and what senators may ask her tomorrow.

Welcome to our viewers here in the United States and around the world. I'm Wolf Blitzer. You're in THE SITUATION ROOM.

This hour, a disturbing new warning about the Russian assault on a key Ukrainian port city. In a new video addressed, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Mariupol is being reduced to ashes and he is vowing it will survive.

In just moments, we'll go live to Sam Kiley in Ukraine. Kaitlan Collins will have the latest from the White House. But, first, CNN Alex Marquardt has all the breaking news on Russia's war against Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Across Ukraine, tonight, the sounds and scenes of war. These air raid sirens in the western sanctuary city of Lviv while snow covers the debris after Russian airstrikes destroyed these residential buildings.

In the other of the country, in Sumy, and in the capital Kyiv, an overnight attack on a shopping center which local officials say killed eight.

The besieged port city of Mariupol is emerging as a critical fight in this war. The Ukrainian officer tells CNN that bombs are falling there every ten minutes. Russian forces bombed an art school being used to shelter around 400 people, according to the city council, with the number of casualties still unknown. Satellite images show the aftermath of the bombing of that that theater where over a thousand civilians were reportedly sheltering, with the Russian word for children written clearly on the ground.

Tonight, Ukraine rejecting a Russian ultimatum to surrender this crucial city, which stands in the way of connecting Western Russia to the Crimean Peninsula.

The mounting death toll across Ukraine, particularly among civilians, is the result of what American and NATO officials see as a stalled Russian military campaign.

LLOYD AUSTIN, DEFENSE SECRETARY: The Ukrainians have continued to trick his forces and they've been very effective using the equipment that we provided them.

MARQUARDT: Even in the few cities, they have taken, such as Kherson, citizens have been bravely protesting. This shocking video capturing the moment that peaceful protesters were interrupted by Russian gun fire and explosions that left at least one civilian shot and wounded.

Elsewhere, as the Russian forces run into stiff Ukrainian resistance, Russia has escalated their weaponry. U.S. officials now confirming Russian claims it used hypersonic missile that's fly at five times the speed of sound and are difficult for missile defense systems to shoot down.

AUSTIN: We kind of question why he would do this. Is he running low on precision-guided munitions?

MARQUARDT: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he is ready to speak directly to President Vladimir Putin, warning of the disastrous consequences of failure.

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: I think we have to use any format, any chance in order to have the possibility of negotiating, a possibility of talking to Putin. But if these attempts fail, that would mean that this is a Third World War.

MARQUARDT: Alex Marquardt, CNN, at the State Department.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BLITZER: Thank you, Alex.

Also tonight, Kremlin forces are claiming that more than 62,000 residents of the besieged city of Mariupol have been evacuated to Russia. CNN cannot confirm that number.

Let's go live to the capital of Ukraine. CNN Senior International Correspondent Sam Kiley is joining us. Sam, Kyiv has been enduring horrific new attacks by the Russians and Mariupol where you are, and Kyiv as well. What is the latest? What are you seeing? What do you hearing?

SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Wolf, here in Kyiv, there has been, I think, a discernible shift in the sort of weaponry that the Russians are using over the last few days. Indeed, over a week. The scenes that we're seeing now are the result of devastating strikes by precision armaments, large missiles with guided systems on board.

Now, the Russians claim that they were hitting multiple rocket launching systems and other military targets at this shopping mall in Northern Kyiv. It is close to the front line. There is a possibility that there may have been military material around. But above all, this is nonetheless a densely populated area that was hit very, very hard indeed with miraculously eight people were killed. And the death toll was relatively low, if that can be considered low, which it is in this conflict.

[18:05:02]

And the context of this conflict, Wolf, because they are so close to the front line, a lot of people are already living underground in bunkers and indeed in cellars. But this is all -- what this is doing, Wolf, is that more and more civilians are targeted. It is clearly entrenching perhaps even long term hatred, and a real just sense of defiance that grew out of the democratic energy that was -- gave birth to this whole movement back in 2013-2014. And here's one of the singers who was part of that.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KILEY (voice over): Singing to protesters in Kyiv's in Independence Square eight years ago as a rock star, he helped drive a pro-Russian president from power. Now, the lead singer of the band, Mandry, Serhiy Fomenko, is in uniform, fighting Vladimir Putin's invasion the old- fashioned way.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Frankly speaking, these days have been very hard. I have a guitar but I haven't been playing. Also, the last two weeks have been really difficult because the enemy was trying to surround Kyiv so there was no music.

We evacuated people from Irpin and it was a very difficult mission. We also had tasks in and around the city to accomplish but I can't tell you everything.

KILEY: This though speaks loud. Civilian homes ripped open, 3 million Ukrainians now refugees. Putin says he sent troops to save Ukraine from fascism. This is the real result.

ALLA ROMANOVA, SURVIVOR: Hate, hate. I am a person who grew up in the Soviet Union. I grew up with the idea that we were brothers and sisters. And now, there is nothing but hatred for them.

PETRO POROSHENKO, FORMER UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: Our latest volunteers is working extremely efficient.

KILEY: The singer, Fomenko, joined a reserved battalion founded by former President Petro Poroshenko., the billionaire first president after Ukraine after they shook off Russian influence eight years ago. It is not just Putin he blames for the war.

POROSHENKO: We cannot wait until the Russian people under the sanction pressure will not be happy with Putin, because Russia have more than 50 percent of the support of the Putin aggression in Ukraine. That should be sanctioned against these Russian people.

KILEY: The location for the billionaire's 206th battalion is a military secret but the militancy of its volunteers is not.

VOLODYMYR OMELYAN, FORMER MINISTER TURNED SOLDIER: Democracies will always win. Maybe it will take longer than everybody expected. But Putin has chosen path of Hitler and we already know how Hitler ends.

KILEY: For now, though, Ukraine is preparing to defend the birthplace of its modern democracy to the bitter end.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KILEY (on camera): Now, Wolf, the hatred towards not just Putin but the Russian people, I'm hearing time and time again, it is entrenching deeper and deeper in their soul, if you like, of the Ukrainians. I think that is going to contribute a great deal to the pressure on Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the president here, not to make any concessions in future talks. At the moment, of course, the talks are just talks about talks. Wolf?

BLITZER: A very good point. Sam Kiley, please stay safe over there. Thank you very much.

Over at the White House, President Biden is warning of evolving intelligence, his words, evolving intelligence suggesting that Russia could conduct cyberattacks against the United States. He is also preparing for his high-stakes trip to Europe for a NATO summit on the war in Ukraine this week.

Let's go to our Chief White House Correspondent Kaitlan Collins. Kaitlan, the president's trip this week will be one of the most consequential of his presidency.

KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Wolf. It is going to be critical. It might be the biggest trip that he ever takes while in office. This is going to be part of this diplomatic push that he makes in Europe as he's holding these urgent talks with allies.

He kick-started the week today by talking to the leaders of Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy, talking and criticizing the brutal tactics that Russia is using against Ukrainian civilians, hurting them and killing them obviously with these bombs that we've seen, only adding up in these residential areas over the last several few weeks.

And the White House says, at the end of President Biden's trip, he will emerge with deliverables but they're still finalizing the list of what those concrete actions coming out of this upcoming trip are going to be. But, Wolf, we should note that they do come as the White House is also warning that Russia is exploring options for potential cyberattacks here in the United States. They are issuing a new warning today telling private companies to be vigilant, make sure they are monitoring and bolstering their security because they do have concerns that Russia could lash as a response to these sanctions that have been imposed by not only the United States but several other European allies as well in response to this invasion that they have conducted.

And so the White House did say today there is no imminent threat to infrastructure, critical infrastructure, but, of course, that is their big concern. So, they say they are issuing this call to action to companies now to step up their security in case Russia does decide to follow through on what they've seen in this evolving intelligence and the threat of a cybersecurity attack.

BLITZER: Kaitlan Collins at the White House for us, thanks for that update.

Just ahead, Russian troops fire on civilian protesters in the Ukrainian city of Kherson today, wounding at least one, as Putin's forces are stepping up attacks against civilians.

Stay with us. You're in THE SITUATION ROOM.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:15:00]

BLITZER: Shocking new video from Kherson, Ukraine, as Putin's forces ramp up their brutal war against Ukraine. Russian soldiers are seeing opening fire on civilian protesters demonstrating against Putin's totally unprovoked invasion with at least one man seriously injured in the attack.

This warning, the video you're about to see is very disturbing.

Let's discuss all these late breaking developments from Russia's unprovoked war with the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, Marie Yovanovitch. She is also the author of a brand new, very important, extremely timely book entitled, Lessons from the Edge, A Memoir. Ambassador, thank you so much for joining us. Thanks for all you've done.

You see the brutality that civilians in Ukraine are facing, this as Russia is hitting markets, hospitals, bread lines, schools. Is this all part of the Russian strategy to try to inflict maximum pain on Ukrainian civilians?

MARIA YOVANOVITCH, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE: I think that is. I think they're going to a war of extermination and they're trying to extract or inflict such pain on the Ukrainian people that they hope to break the will of the Ukrainian people. But I think that what we're seeing is the exact opposite, that even as they are besieging cities, sort of 15th century tactics with 21st century weapons, as they are doing all these things, frog marching away mayors from different cities, and, of course, deporting people to Russia. These are Stalin tactics.

I think what you're seeing is the exact opposite, where the Ukrainian people are just more resolute, that they are going to keep their lands, they are going to keep their country.

BLITZER: So, are you suggesting that we're seeing a war of extermination unfold?

YOVANOVITCH: I mean, that is what I'm seeing. It seems that since Putin can't attract the Ukrainians to his side, he is killing them. He is killing innocent people, not the military.

BLITZER: It's really, you know, awful to see what's going on. It is heartbreaking, especially you see these kids who are being killed, and the mothers and the grandparent.

Ukrainians in the city of Mariupol, a city you know well, you were the ambassador in Ukraine, they are refusing to bow to Russian demands to surrender. As the former ambassador, just how badly did Putin, from your perspective, actually miscalculate the resolve of the Ukrainian people?

YOVANOVITCH: Well, I think he has never understood Ukraine. He has never understood the Ukrainians. He did not understand, I think, that they are truly a different and unique people with their own history and culture and traditions and lives. And they did not want to be dominated. They don't want to be dominated by Russia. And they are paying in blood for that. And it is a tragedy unfolding.

BLITZER: As you write in your brand new book, Lessons from the Edge, A Memoir, you were flying out of Ukraine after being forced out the same day as President Zelenskyy's inauguration. How has President Zelenskyy risen to this moment from your perspective?

YOVANOVITCH: Well, it is really incredible. I mean, he started as a comedian, as you know, rose to become president, and now he is a wartime leader, the likes of which I don't think we've seen since World War II, binding his nation together, reflecting the values of Ukraine and Ukrainians, but also binding them together, uniting them, inspiring them and inspiring the world.

BLITZER: He's a real, real hero.

YOVANOVITCH: It's remarkable.

BLITZER: Certainly, you know this. And the Russian ministry said it summoned the U.S. ambassador of Moscow, warning that Russian-American relations are, quote, and I'm quoting now, on the verge of rupture after President Biden called Vladimir Putin a war criminal and a thug.

[18:20:00]

What is the worst-case scenario if Russia were to cut off all diplomacy with the United States?

YOVANOVITCH: Well, I certainly home that does not happen. We always need to have at least some channels open with other countries, certainly allies, but almost even more importantly, with adversaries. But if that were to happen, we can always communicate through other parties. We've done that other countries in the past. But obviously it's much better to have direct channels and open channels.

BLITZER: You have a lot of experience as a career diplomat. Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch, thanks, once again, for joining us, thanks for all you've done.

Let me once again try to tell our viewer, this is an important new book, there you see the cover, Lessons from the Edge, A Memoir. Thank you so much, Ambassador, for writing this book. Thanks for joining us.

YOVANOVITCH: Thank you.

BLITZER: Coming up, we're going to take you inside a makeshift shelter where residents of the besieged city of Mariupol have found some safe harbor after weeks of living in, and I'm quoting now, hell.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:25:00]

BLITZER: In this fourth week of Russia's brutal war, Ukrainians are fleeing attack whenever and wherever they can. Nearly 3.5 million people have actually escaped the country altogether, but many millions of others are simply leaving their homes for makeshift shelters inside Ukraine.

CNN Senior International Correspondent Ivan Watson is in the central city of Dnipro for us. Ivan, the U.N. says about one-fourth of Ukraine's, what, 44 million population has been displaced internally or externally. You've met some of those people.

IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: i have. And a focal point right now is this modern day siege that the Russian military has been laying on this port city called Mariupol.

Before the war, it had a population of more than 400,000 people. And I spoke with one family that managed to escape, escape Russia's bombardment of their home.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WATSON (voice over): Children at play, frolicking in an arcade meant to host games of laser tag. But these are not normal times. The owners have turned their children's entertainment business into a makeshift shelter, a place to house dozens of Ukrainians who just fled the besieged port city of Mariupol.

DMYTRO SHVETS, FLED MARIUPOL: The last couple weeks will be like hell.

WATSON: Dmytro Shvets, his wife, Tanya, and their daughter, Vlada, escaped Mariupol on Thursday. They endured weeks of Russian bombardment from artillery and airstrikes. SHVETS: Each 15, 20 minutes, you can listen to the airplane. It was like target and target. And then the sound, pew, babam.

WATSON: Tanya kept a journal, March 2nd, day 7 of the war, nothing has changed, she writes. No electricity or heat and there is no running water now as well.

They lived in the basement .And when they emerged, Tanya took photos and videos of their apartment building pock-marked with bullet holes, unexploded shells in residential streets, desperate people looting a bomb-damaged store for food.

SHVETS: There is no water to drink.

WATSON: They scavenged for drinking water, pulling buckets from street sewers.

SHVETS: We were taking the water from the rain water, taking the rain -- waiting for the rain water.

WATSON: Heavy shelling on nearby houses, Tanya wrote, on March 5th. We all went to sleep with the thought of how the survive and stay alive. One day, a shell exploded near Dmytro as he stood in line for water.

SHVETS: A bomb fell down and like killed three people in front of us. One guy was without head, who was like taking the water. Another one in the line was like a half a head. And the last one was killed. With my own eyes, like not in general (ph), like three people completely I saw killed and we were making a grave for them, digging, yes.

WATSON: In your neighborhood?

SHVETS: Yes.

WATSON: Finally, it was all too much.

SHVETS: The last day, I saw my father, because my mother was completely destroyed mentally, I mean, it was like completely depression, was sitting in the cellar and even she haven't left the cellar since the beginning of the war, just staying inside, unfortunately.

And the last day I saw my father and he begged me, please, guys, leave, leave somewhere. I don't know where. Just escape this. Escape this. And he was crying.

WATSON: Dmytro and his wife and daughter piled into a car with friends and spent 15 hours driving through Russian frontlines to escape the siege of Mariupol. Their parents refused to leave.

SHVETS: I don't know if I am going to see my parents or listen to my parents again. I don't know. It is like living from day the day. Today, we are alive, tomorrow, maybe not.

WATSON: In the relative safety of this arcade built to entertain children, the kids welcome the escape from the conflict.

I really want to say hello to other children, Tanya's seven-year-old daughter Vlada says. And they want the war to end quickly.

Her parents appear haunted, clearly traumatized

[18:30:00]

Tanya gets a call from her mother in Mariupol, weeping, and saying goodbye because she fears she will not survive the night.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WATSON (on camera): Now, Wolf, the local government says more than 3,000 people managed to escape from Mariupol today. But it is a dangerous journey. Officials also say at least two children are in critical condition from two separate incidents where their fleeing cars were struck by incoming fire. We do not know how many civilians remain cowering in their basements in that ravaged city. Wolf?

BLITZER: Awful, horrible situation. Ivan Watson reporting for us, thank you very much.

Let's go outside of Ukraine right now to one of the neighboring countries accepting these Ukrainian war refugees. Our Senior National Correspondent Miguel Marquez is in Bucharest, Romania, for us.

Miguel, tell us about the refugees you met today.

MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it is stunning to see that story that Ivan just had and that number of internally displaced refugees in Ukraine, and the people that we are seeing here. We went to one of many, many shelters that the city of Bucharest is setting up for refugees and spoke to several of them there, those harrowing, horrific stories about leaving their country behind, having friends and family there. We spoke to one woman about how difficult it was to leave.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JULIA MULIARCHUK, REFUGEE FROM KYIV: Yes, it was terrifying at the beginning. But then I saw so many people trying to help and I felt, well, probably, we will come to it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MARQUEZ: Now, look, there is a lot of support for these people. It is terrifying for them to leave just horrible conditions. But then to go out into the world where they don't know anybody and try to figure out how they are going to start their lives all over again, that's what they are faced with now.

The cities, like Bucharest, all over Romania right now are meeting those basic needs, food, water and clothing, shelter, but those longer needs, health care, education, jobs and long-term living conditions are what they're looking at now. They're no longer measuring this humanitarian crisis in days or weeks or months. It is months and years. Wolf?

BLITZER: Miguel Marquez in Romania for us watching this tragedy unfold, thank you very much.

Important information for our viewers for information about how you can help all these humanitarian efforts in Ukraine, go to cnn.com/impact and you will help impact your world.

Just ahead, why Russia's newest weapon against Ukraine is so dangerous. Experts weigh in on the stunning speed and the maneuverability of hypersonic missiles.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:35:00]

BLITZER: Tonight, military strategists are trying to get inside Vladimir Putin's head and understand Russia's decision to fire powerful hypersonic missiles into Ukraine.

Brian Todd is looking into this story for us. Brian, these missiles are very fast and they're very dangerous.

BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, Wolf. We've been reporting on the development of hypersonic missiles for months now but this is the first known use of these missiles in combat. We have new information tonight on the capabilities of these missions used by the Russians and the possible reasons why they launched them.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (voice over): Vladimir Putin unveils a new weapon in his arsenal. U.S. officials confirming CNN that Russia launched hypersonic missiles against Ukraine in recent days, the first known use of these missiles ever in combat. The missiles the Russians call kinzhal, meaning dagger, struck a military ammunition warehouse in Western Ukraine. Sources telling CNN the U.S. tracked the launches in real- time.

THOMAS KARAKO, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES: It is a good opportunity to test and it a signal to NATO, to Poland and other countries that they have this and to kind of keep their distance.

TODD: Experts say what makes the hypersonic missile so dangerous is that it can fly at five times the speed of sound or greater and is more maneuverable in flight than missiles.

COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: It uses GPS coordinates or a similar system to hone in on a target. It can also be directed by a controller to specific targets and it can change course in the middle of its trajectory. It can follow the nap-of-the-earth. It's called nap-of-the-earth navigation and it can go right down on the ground where basically it evades radar coverage.

TODD: A senior U.S. defense official tells CNN, Putin's deployment of a hypersonic missile to hit that ammunition warehouse, quote, is a bit of a head scratcher. Why would you need a hypersonic missile fired from not that far away to hit a building?

Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin also wondered that aloud in an interview with CBS, as he downplayed Russia's use of the weapon.

AUTIN: I don't think that this, in and of itself, will be a game changer. You kind of question why he would do this. Is he running low on precision-guided munitions? Does he lack complete confidence in his ability to -- the ability of his troops to reestablish momentum?

TODD: Military analysts say, what is worrisome about the hypersonic missile is the lack of U.S. defense capability against it.

LEIGHTON: When it is launched, it is impossible to intercept this mission.

TODD: Why?

LEIHGTON: We have no technology that's can do it. Right now, the developments that we're looking at from a missile defense perspective are way behind the development of these hypersonic missiles.

TODD: One expert says Putin could deploy them again in Ukraine and there is a possibility that the Russians could misuse the weapon.

KARAKKO: We've already seen some Russian drones stray off into NATO territory. You could have cruise missiles stray off as they have in the past into Iran when Russia has fired these things in the past. So, whether it's hypersonic or subsonic, there is always the potential for miscalculations, just something going wrong.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

[18:40:00]

TODD (on camera): Just moments ago, President Biden confirmed Russia's use of hypersonic missile, saying it is almost impossible to stop it. There is a reason they're using it, end quote, from the president, Wolf. It is a pretty scary capability.

BLITZER: Yes, this is such a disturbing new development. Brian, thank you very much for that report, Brian Todd reporting.

Amid all the devastation of Putin's invasion, we want to take a moment to highlight one remarkable story. A loving and selfless act from a Ukrainian mother who used her body to shield her one-month-old baby as their Kyiv home was being shelled during a Russian missile strike, protecting her daughter from flying glass and debris, likely saving her child's life.

Listen to the young mother describe the frightening scene.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OLGA, WOMAN WOUNDED COVERING BABY FROM SHELLING: I was wounded in the head and blood started flowing and it all flowed on the baby. And I couldn't understand. I thought it was her blood. Dmytro was taking the baby away. I'm screaming that she's covered in glass, all in blood. He tells me, Olga, it is your blood, it's not hers.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BLITZER: The baby was unharmed while the mother underwent surgery for her injuries and she is recovering.

Coming up, much more in the breaking developments out of Ukraine as Putin's forces are stepping up their brutal war against civilians.

Plus, Judge Kentanji Brown Jackson gives her opening statement as she seeks to make history and become the first black woman to serve on the United States Supreme Court.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:45:59]

BLITZER: We'll get back to all the latest developments on Russia's war on Ukraine in a few moments but there's another important story we're following right now. Day one of the historic confirmation hearings for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, the first black woman to be nominated to the Supreme Court. The hearings wrapped up a little while ago following her opening statement.

CNN justice correspondent Jessica Schneider reports on Judge Jackson's remarks to senators and the confirmation.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL): Please raise your right hand.

JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): An historic first for America's highest court, as confirmation hearings begin for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, the first black woman ever nominated to the Supreme Court.

JUDGE KETANJI BROWN JACKSON, U.S. SUPREME COURT NOMINEE: I hope that you will see how much I love our country, and the Constitution and the rights that make us free.

SCHNEIDER: Senators of both parties made note of how monumental this moment is.

SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): You're showing so many little girls and little boys across the country that anything and everything is possible.

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): I have said in the past, and I think it is good for the court to look like America. So count me in on the idea of making the court more diverse.

SCHNEIDER: But Republicans previewed lines of attack they'll roll out during the question and answer session that begins tomorrow. Senator Josh Hawley leading the charge, laying out several cases where Jackson, while a federal trial court judge in D.C., used her discretion to hand down lighter sentences for child pornography offenders than prosecutors have requested.

SEN. JOSH HAWLEY (R-MO): Prosecutors recommended 24 months in prison. Judge Jackson gave the defendant three months in prison.

SCHNEIDER: Judge Jackson will likely explain her reasoning for the lower sentence when she answers questions.

JACKSON: I decide cases from a neutral posture. I evaluate the facts and I interpret and apply the law to the facts of the case before me without fear or favor, consistent with my judicial oath.

SCHNEIDER: The White House has already said her sentences were in line with what the U.S. Probation Office recommends.

But Senator Hawley preemptively rebutted her response Monday.

HAWLEY: Some have said that the federal sentencing guidelines are too harsh on sex crimes, especially child pornography. I'll just be honest. I can't say that I agree with that.

SCHNEIDER: Republicans will likely also target Judge Jackson for being, quote, soft on crime, pointing in particular to her defense of detainees at Guantanamo Bay.

SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R-TX): I understand the importance of zealous advocacy, but it appears that sometimes this zealous advocacy has gone beyond the pale.

SCHNEIDER: If Jackson is confirmed, the ideological split on the 6-3 court will remain the same because she is replacing liberal Justice Steven Breyer for whom she served as a law clerk more than 20 years ago.

JACKSON: I know that I could never fill his shoes. But if confirmed, I would hope to carry on his spirit.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SCHNEIDER (on camera): Now Republicans are promising no personal attacks but things are likely to get a lot more heated tomorrow when two long days of questioning begins. There will be 11 Democrats, 11 Republicans on the committee. They'll each get 30 minutes for questions. And at that point, Wolf, Ketanji Brown Jackson will likely be pressed on her record as a public defender, also as a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission and her near-decade as a federal judge -- Wolf.

BLITZER: Jessica Schneider reporting for us, thank you very much.

Joining us to discuss this truly historic hearing, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey. He's a key member of the Judiciary Committee.

Senator, thanks for joining us. During your remarks earlier today, you highlighted the history-making name of Judge Jackson's nomination, the significance of diversifying the federal courts. Tell us why that is so important?

SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): I mean, this is not normal. We've had 115 Supreme Court justices in the history of our country, 108 of them have been white men. And this is the first time ever we've seen a black woman be before the United States Senate judiciary Committee for this kind of confirmation.

[18:50:05]

It is extraordinary that this is happening and it's about time. It's overdue. We all know that for generations, there have been more diverse people qualified to get in the court but they did not have a shot. We are doing something -- all of us here in the Senate, we're something really special and I know a lot of my colleagues even on the other side of the aisle understand the gravity of this historic moment and the glass ceiling that's being shattered.

BLITZER: Yes. It is historic what's going on right now.

The Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell says Republicans will ask Judge Jackson in his --

BOOKER: I'm not hearing --

BLITZER: Can you hear me, Senator?

BOOKER: I hear now, sorry.

BLITZER: OK. Mitch McConnell says that they'll ask Judge Jackson tough questions this week, particularly about what Senator McConnell called her, quote, so-called empathy for particular parties in cases over others. What do you think he means by that?

BOOKER: I don't know what he means but as a guy who used to work in legal clinics and knows full well that 80 percent of the people that enter our criminal courts can't afford lawyers. That very fundamentally to our judicial system, starting back in the days of John Adams, is giving people no matter who they are, in that case, British soldiers who were part of the Boston massacre. Everyone deserves a defense.

And so, those people who step into that role, it is not a career -- a fast moving career path like prosecutors often have to the bench. She became a public defender because she believes in the fundamental ideal of our nation, that everyone deserves a vigorous defense and I respect her for that. I honor her.

And what's exceptional is that she will be the first person on the Supreme Court ever to be a public defender. Finally, we have someone who has that kind of experience and that kind of empathy gained from that experience on the Supreme Court.

BLITZER: As you know, Republicans are ramping up their attacks on Judge Jackson as being supposedly soft on crime. How do you respond to that line of criticism?

BOOKER: Well, I think you just look at the people that are endorsing her. Are you soft on crime if the Fraternal Order of Police, the largest police union in the country, is endorsing you? Are you soft on crime if the International Association of Chiefs of Police, one of the largest police organizations representing chiefs of police, her endorsements come from the right and the left, just appointed from Republicans and Democrats.

When she was on the Sentencing Commission, she joined with the majority, sometimes she actually joined with Republicans against other Democrats.

She's been an extraordinarily tough and fair judge. These attacks don't hold water, especially compared to the law enforcement leaders that are supporting her. And her herself, and her family, has a lot of police officers. That's -- that's the nature of who she is.

BLITZER: Very quickly while I have you, a quick question on Ukraine because you sit on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. President Zelenskyy says a key city is being, quote, reduced to ashes.

What more can the West do, the NATO allies, to help Ukraine hold on?

BOOKER: Well, there are ongoing efforts right now. They are pretty considerable. To see NATO joining together to make sure that Ukraine has more of the capability that they need to defend against this horrific efforts by Putin, what he is doing amounts to me to war crimes, it amounts to me to of the sort of ugliest type of invasion, the type of which we saw during World War II.

And so, I'm grateful. I was in conversations with colleagues today about our continued efforts to support the Ukrainian folks in alliance with other Western nations. This is horrific what we're seeing, but we are pulling together and investing, from the United States' perspective, billions of dollars to support the Ukrainian defense.

BLITZER: Senator Cory Booker, thank you so much for joining us. I appreciate it very much.

We'll have more news right after this.

BOOKER: Thank you.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:58:26]

BLITZER: Finally tonight, we want to share a truly inspiring performance by a 7-year-old Ukrainian girl. You may remember, she wowed the world when she sang the hit song let it go from frozen while she was in a Kyiv bomb shelter. Now she is safe in Poland where she performed a cappella version of the country's national anthem for an audience of thousands. Listen to this.

(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS) BLITZER: Let me join in the applause. What an amazing young 7-year- old. That moving performance, by the way, was part of the benefit concert to help the people of Ukraine.

"ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT" starts right now.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNTSR0020220322ei3l0002t


News; International
10 Million People Forced to Flee Their Homes; More than 200,000 Evacuees Seeking Safety in Lviv; Chinese State Media: No Plane Crash Survivors Found So Far; Hearings Begin for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson; Ukrainian Musician Helps Defend Kyiv from Russian Attacks; Bombs Falling Every 10 Minutes In Mariupol; At Least Eight People Killed In Russian Attack On Kyiv Shopping Center; Nearly 3.5 million Ukrainians Flee The Country; EU Doubles Its Military Aid To Ukraine. Aired 1-2a ET
Hala Gorani, Don Lemon, John Vause, Will Ripley, Jessica Schneider, Sam Kiley, Alex Marquardt, Miguel Marquez, Anna Stewart, Melissa Bell
6229 字
2022 年 3 月 22 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:00:26]

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is CNN Breaking News.

HALA GORANI, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome everyone to our viewers around the world and in the United States this hour. I'm Hala Gorani live in Lviv, Ukraine. It is just past seven in the morning and we just heard an air raid siren rang out across this city.

Now, Mariupol, Ukraine is refusing to surrender to Russia. And now bombs have been raining down on the city quote every 10 minutes, according to Ukrainian officer.

President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Monday that Mariupol is being quote reduced to ashes, but that it will survive. The EU foreign policy chief calls this bombardment a massive war crime.

The Russian Defense Ministry meanwhile, claims more than 62,000 Mariupol residents have evacuated to Russia in quote complete safety. But the city council says thousands were in fact taken against their will.

In Kyiv, authorities say a recent missile strike on a shopping mall has killed at least 88 people and they warned that number could rise, eight people. Russia says that attacked the mall because Ukrainian troops were using it to hide rocket launchers.

Now, Russia's Defense Ministry released this drone video that appears to show some sort of weapons system and accuses Ukraine of using social facilities as human shields. Ukraine denies this. This is the aftermath though of the strike on the mall at the capitol is under a curfew until Wednesday morning, local time.

Russia's war in Ukraine is now approaching the one month mark. The fighting has left hundreds dead and caused untold damage across the country. And there's no end in sight to the suffering unfortunately, CNN's Alex Marquardt has our story.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): Across Ukraine, the sounds and scenes of war these air raid sirens in the western sanctuary city of Lviv, while snow covers the debris after Russian airstrikes destroyed these residential buildings on the other side of the country in Sumy and in the capital, Kyiv and overnight attack on a shopping center, which local officials say killed eight.

The besieged port city of Mariupol is emerging as a critical fight in this war. The Ukrainian officer tells CNN that bombs are falling there every 10 minutes. Russian forces bombed in art school being used to shelter around 400 people, according to the city council, with a number of casualties still unknown.

Satellite images show the aftermath of the bombing of that theater were over 1,000 civilians were reportedly sheltering with the Russian word for children written clearly on the ground.

Ukraine rejecting a Russian ultimatum to surrender this crucial city, which stands in the way of connecting western Russia to the Crimean peninsula. The mounting death toll across Ukraine, particularly among civilians is the result of what American and NATO officials see as a stalled Russian military campaign.

LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: The Ukrainians have continued to attract his forces, and they've been very effective using the equipment that we provided them.

MARQUARDT: Even in the few cities that Russia has taken like Kherson, citizens have been bravely protesting. This shocking video capturing the moment that peaceful protesters were interrupted by Russian gunfire and explosions that left at least one civilian shot and wounded elsewhere.

As the Russian forces run into stiff Ukrainian resistance, Russia has escalated their weaponry. U.S. officials now confirming Russian claims it used hypersonic missiles that fly at five times the speed of sound and are difficult for missile defense systems to shoot down.

AUSTIN: I think, again, the reason that he's resorting to using these types of weapons is because he's trying to reestablish some momentum.

MARQUARDT: The Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he's ready to speak directly to President Vladimir Putin warning of the disastrous consequences of failure.

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): I think we have to use any format any chance in order to have a possibility of negotiating, a possibility of talking to Putin. But if these attempts fail, that would mean that this is a third world war.

MARQUARDT: Alex Marquardt, CNN at the State Department.

(END VIDEO TAPE)

GORANI: Liubov Tsybulska, an advisor to the Ukrainian military and government and she is with us from Warsaw, Poland. Thank you for being with us. The Russians are alleging that that shopping mall was used to store and hide rocket launchers and that's why they targeted that particular residential area. What's your reaction to that claim?

[01:05:10]

LIUBOV TSYBULSKA, ADVISER TO UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT AND MILITARY: The reaction is the same like they keep saying that we keep weapon in maternity hospitals, we keep weapon in drama theaters. The thing is that they're killing civilians, and we have a lot of interceptions of their soldiers. We have minister's Lavrov words, where he admits that they kill civilians, they bombed theaters, hospitals, schools and kindergartens, and they kill civilians. This is Russia's tactics. They know what they're doing.

GORANI: They know what they're doing. But at the same time, they're not taking city centers. They're not taking occupying and holding the big cities. They're really having to use crude weapons in order to terrify the civilian population into leaving, like in Mariupol. Talk to us a little bit about, I mean, the ultimate I imagined target for Vladimir Putin would be Kyiv. So far, though the city has resisted.

TSYBULSKA: Absolutely, they try to take cities but they cannot enter and take control over Ukrainian cities. They did it in Kherson. But people keep protesting. People keep resisting and they basically Russians don't know what to do with them. And the same with Mariupol and Kharkiv and Kyiv, of course, they can shell that can kill civilians, but they cannot take control over these cities.

And as you said, the ultimate goal is of course, Kyiv. But now Kyiv is a fortress, it will be very, very difficult, if not impossible to take the city. But of course, Russia wants to frighten civilians. They want to spread panic and demoralization, and basically reduce the support of Ukrainian army from Ukrainian population.

GORANI: And you've looked a lot at disinformation efforts on the Russian side, what have you been able to observe? Because it really does sound like at least from our reporters inside Russia, that these disinformation and propaganda campaigns are effective with a pretty big portion of the population? How do you combat that?

TSYBULSKA: Of course, Russia launches different campaigns for different audiences. There's campaign for Russian audience, there's campaign for Ukrainian and there is another one for the Western audience.

In Russia, they try to portray this as a big fight against great evil, against Nazi West. They want to mobilize the whole country. And of course, there's a shortage of soldiers. There is a shortage of those who are ready to fight. So they want to mobilize basically old and young, everybody to participate in this war. And, as you said, support of the war is absolutely significant. Around 70 percent of Russian citizens support this aggression, unfortunately. GORANI: Yes. And what, I mean, we're almost a month in, which is just absolutely so tragic for Ukraine, obviously. But where is there a potential exit here? Not obviously rewarding Vladimir Putin for his unprovoked attack, but where can we find some sort of exit to this? And to stop to the suffering? What's the best case scenario now in in your view?

TSYBULSKA: I think that the best case scenario is if something happens in Russia. We know that there is division between Russian elites, first of all, security and defense leads, like FSB against military and of course, many people within the government understand that this war is going to bring Russia to collapse.

So, of course, we do expect that they will do something in Russia. We cannot expect that having the support of the world, people would go and protest and, you know, make basically revolution. But there are some chances that Putin will be -- his power will be limited by his own people.

But again, we don't know. Now they're killing civilians. Now they are bombing our cities and hospitals and schools and kindergartens.

[01:10:02]

Again, a lot of people are trying to narrow down this whole war to only Putin's responsibility. I think it's a big mistake. We should speak more about shared responsibility, because these are -- these processes within Russian society are absolutely dangerous. And if they do not go through recognition of this problem, then we are going to have this problem again in a few decades, not we but the whole world, of course.

GORANI: Yes. Liubov Tsybulska, thank you very much for joining us from Warsaw this morning.

The United Nations has Russia's war on Ukraine has driven nearly three and a half million people out of the country. Take a look at the map. The vast majority of these people are heading west to neighboring countries. And if you include those who are displaced internally, but still in Ukraine, that number jumps to at least 10 million.

To put it into perspective, that's almost a quarter of Ukraine's population now forced from their homes. The UN says more than 90 percent of the people who fled Ukraine are women and children, remember men between 18 and 60 have to stay in the country to fight and they are at a quote, these women and children heightened risk of gender based violence and other forms of exploitation and abuse.

In Romania, families who've escaped the war are coming to terms with what they've lost as they try to envision a path forward. Some of the families waiting in a Bucharest shelter spoke with CNN's Miguel Marquez, about their struggles.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Ludnida Zhidik (ph), her two teenage daughters and her father arrived last night.

Our beautiful parks or beautiful square, she says, everything is ruined. From Kharkiv city punished by Russian artillery and rockets. A school teacher, Zhidik has some savings but not much. Their three-day journey brought them to this shelter run by the city of Bucharest.

I'm shocked war is possible in 2022, she says. Everything was good. I could walk with my friends. I love my home city. It was very difficult to leave watching.

Sofia's (ph) sister says it's hard to believe their lives have been thrown into such enormous uncertainty.

ANASTASIA ZHIDIK, FLED KHARKI, UKRAINE: I really miss my house, my country, my city. And I hope that this war is going to finish.

MARQUEZ: Andrei Tesman (ph), a furniture maker had his own business. He's here with his wife, kids in all a family of eight and their Chihuahua. Bruno.

(on camera): Do you know when you will go home?

ANDREI TESMAN (ph), FURNITURE MAKER: Big question.

MARQUEZ: Big question.

(voice-over): A friend sent video of what their home now looks like. This is your home.

TESMAN (ph): That is my home. This is my room. Bedroom.

MARQUEZ: Bedroom.

TESMAN (ph): It's my bedroom.

MARQUEZ: Unlivable. The entire neighborhood destroyed by possibly a rocket or artillery fire. Nothing to go back to.

(on camera): At 60 years old, are you starting over again? I don't want to, he says, but I have to. His son is in Florida. The family has inquired about visas to travel to the U.S. but so far -- we haven't tried to apply for visas, he says. His wife adds my son sent several messages to embassies and to people in Washington DC. The message they got back, America does not accept refugees for now.

The Biden administration looking for ways to speed up applications for now World Vision is helping these refugees and tens of thousands more in Romania alone. There needs deepening.

ANDREA BUJOR, WORLD VISION ROMANIA: The people that are coming now. These people really, really need help and there are a lot of people we were at the border and I was at the border I talked to a lot of people that didn't have any money, any plan.

MARQUEZ: Julia Muliarchuk and her eight-year-old son David named for David Beckham from Kyiv, arrived two weeks ago. (on camera): When you decided to leave. How long did you have to pack?

JULIA MULIARCHUK, REFUGEE FROM KYIV, URKRAINE: Well, I had to run three hours.

MARQUEZ: Three hours.

MULIARCHUK: Yes, yes. Yes.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): A few bags, documents and family photos.

(on camera): Who is this?

MULIARCHUK: It's me and my husband 10 years ago.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): She calls her mother in Kyiv every morning.

MULIARCHUK: So it's like Hello, Mom. Are you OK? And we talk and talk, she say, yes, it seems like it's been quiet night and then I'm speaking to my husband and my friends.

[01:15:09]

MARQUEZ (on camera): It's like a full time job.

MULIARCHUK: Not a full time job but you have to be sure that everyone is OK because it's nothing for sure now. Nothing.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): She wants to go home. But when.

(on camera): When do you think you can go home?

MULIARCHUK: God knows when. Nobody knows.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Miguel Marquez, CNN, Bucharest.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GORANI: Well, still to come, oil prices are climbing as the EU considers sanctions on Russian energy imports. We'll bring you that story and we will explain the risks involved in delivering humanitarian aid to Ukraine. As donations keep coming in from around the world. We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:20:14]

GORANI: I'm Hala Gorani live in Lviv, Ukraine. The European Union says it is ready to impose more penalties on Russia over its actions on Ukraine. This includes discussing sanctions on Russia's entire energy sector, which some countries have resisted so far, and potentially joining a U.S. led embargo of Russian oil. The EU also reached an agreement on Monday to provide an additional $551 million in military and other aid to Ukraine. Here's more from the EU foreign policy chief. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOSEP BORRELL, EU HIGH REPRESENTATIVE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIARS: What's happening in Mariupol is a massive war crime, destroying everything bombarding and killing everybody in English in related manner. This is something awful. We have to condemn in the strongest terms.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GORANI: Well, cutting off Russian energy would be no easy task for the EU because some countries depends so much on it and diplomats warned that every country has its own red lines on this particular issue. CNN's Anna Stewart takes a closer look.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER (on camera): With no sign of the conflict in Ukraine easing, oil prices started the week sharply higher, and as foreign ministers arrived in Brussels. That was huge interest in whether the block might announce a ban on Russian oil imports, speeding up its current timeline of five years to phase out Russian energy and following in the footsteps of the U.S. and other Western allies who've already announced a ban on Russian oil.

No such announcement was made Monday. The EU High Commissioner said the EU stands ready to take further measures against Russia. But it wasn't the day for such decisions. He did though reference the thorny issue of energy.

BORRELL: Ukrainian war has been a kind of awakening for our conscience. For example, the energy dependency is something that we have been increasing of energy dependency from Russia for years. And now we take full conscience of the weaponization of dependencies. Dependency become a weapon. It is a weapon that is being used as a weapon. And we have to react with someone uses something as a weapon against us.

STEWART: The block depends on Russia for about 40 percent of its natural gas and over a quarter of its oil imports. European businesses and households are already struggling with record high prices.

Even without an oil embargo from the EU though Russia is feeling the pinch. Last week, the IEA, that's the International Energy Agency, said Russia may be forced to cut oil production by 30 percent due to a slump in demand.

Russian oil is struggling to find buyers and is actually now around $30 a barrel cheaper than Brent.

According to Russia state media outlet TASS, the Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak on Monday that if Russian oil was rejected from global markets, prices could skyrocket to $300 a barrel, even $500 that is far above estimates from any analysts or experts CNN has spoken to.

Minister Novak also said that Europe does not have a substitute for Russian oil. On that point, he may be right at least for now with the EU has made clear it wants that to change so Russia can no longer wield the weapon of energy dependence. Anna Stewart, CNN, London.

(END VIDEO TAPE)

GORANI: Well, countries around the world are pitching in to help Ukraine but as aid pours in delivering it, throughout the country is becoming increasingly more dangerous. CNN's Melissa Bell explains.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

MELISSA BELL, CNN PARIS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): From all over the world, boxes of donations, food, medicine and clothing, now piled high and being sorted by volunteers in a disused warehouse at the Polish town of Shimshal (ph), note far from the border of Ukraine.

KATARYNA GORZALA, WAREHOUSE VOLUNTEER: At the beginning, I was really surprised that so many people wants to help but now I think I am used to it. You know, how wonderful people are.

BELL: Donations that Ukraine desperately needs. Loaded into vans to be taken to the border and then into the war torn country. The land routes from Europe are now Ukraine's lifeline. The main roads humanitarian organizations use to bring in their much needed supplies. And they are far from safe. One Ukrainian driver didn't want to be identified sharing some of his drive telling us off several places.

PRANAV SHERRY, PROJECT HOPE: I think we've kind of seen that civilian targets are not off limits in this crisis and so that's a constant issue in the back of most humanitarians minds is how do deal with the potential risk of directed attack. How do we ensure that our aid is seen as separate from as we know all of the military aid that's going into Ukraine.

[01:25:23]

BELL: Last week, Russia delivered a chilling warning.

SERGEY LAVROV, RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: While we clearly said that, any cargo moving into Ukrainian territory, which we would believe is carrying weapons would be a fair game.

BELL: On Thursday, the United Nations got its first convoy of aid into the heavily damaged town of Sumy, calling it a breakthrough for cities facing quote, fatal shortages of food, water and medicine.

And as the violence worsens, the need for medical supplies to help the wounded continues to grow, as does the West's determination to help President Joe Biden signing $13.6 billion worth of aid only last week.

ROBERT MARDINI, DIRECTOR-GENERAL INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS: The bottleneck is not funds because there has been a great deal of solidarity and generosity. So we now really need to step up the operation and response inside the country.

BELL: In the knowledge that the longer the conflict lasts, and the more the aid is needed, the more dangerous it will become to deliver. Melissa Bell, CNN, Szczecin (ph), Poland.

(END VIDEO TAPE)

GORANI: Still to come, seeking safety in western Ukraine. Thousands displaced by the war are now here in Lviv. We'll hear the heartbreaking story of one family, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:31:06]

HALA GORANI, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back.

I'm Hala Gorani reporting live from Lviv Ukraine.

We have now learned that Ukrainian forces have just regained control of Makhariv, the city west of the capital Kyiv. And to the south, a Ukrainian officer says bombs are now falling every ten minutes in the besieged city of Mariupol. The city has spent weeks under almost constant attack by Russian forces.

This video shows the moment a Russian strike hit some factory building there. Local officials say at least one major steel plant has been destroyed.

Ukrainian officials also believe tens of thousands of residents are still trapped inside Mariupol, without water, heat, or power. They're having to melt snow for drinking water.

On Monday the European Union foreign policy chief called the situation in Mariupol a war crime. Ukraine's president has echoed that sentiment, but insists that the city will survive.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Hardworking, honest city of Mariupol which is being destroyed by the occupiers and being reduced to ashes but it will survive.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GORANI: Meanwhile, Russia's defense ministry released this video showing Monday's attack on a shopping center in Ukraine's capital, you will remember we showed you yesterday the first images of the aftermath of that attack.

Russia claims that the mall was being used to hide rocket launchers. Ukraine is dismissing that claim saying Russia is targeting civilian areas deliberately.

And this is what the scene looks like now. Today, officials in Kyiv say at least eight people were killed, but warned that the number could very well rise. The city is now under a strict curfew until Wednesday morning.

While this is all causing so much grief for so many million people, more than 10 million people in fact, nearly a quarter of Ukraine's population have been forced from their homes as the war rages on. And many evacuees from the eastern part of the country have traveled west seeking relative safety right here in Lviv.

CNN's Don Lemon spoke with one family who escaped Russia's assault.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DON LEMON, CNN HOST (voice over): Darina Rusanova (ph) was at her mother's house outside of Kharkiv when Russian bombardment drew closer.

DARINA RUSANOVA, UKRAINIAN EVACUEE: Everything was doing this --

LEMON: Shaking.

RUSANOVA: -- yes. Yes it was shaking. We were laying on the ground. And like praying we would be safe and alive.

LEMON: After taking cover with her mother and a neighbor, they are emerged to destruction.

RUSANOVA: Everything is bombed. A lot of glass was broken, the garage was entirely blown off.

LEMON (on camera): This is your house?

RUSANOVA: Yes, mine.

LEMON: Oh my goodness.

(voice over): Her mother Tatiana had lived there for 50 years. Now an evacuee with her daughter.

(on camera): Why did you come to Lviv?

TATIANA RUSANOVA, UKRAINIAN EVACUEE: My home was destroyed.

LEMON: Your home was destroyed.

(voice over): Her dog Martin, two cats, and a backpack of documents and family photographs were all she and Darina were able to bring.

D. RUSANOVA: I think I was shocked, I couldn't even cry. I didn't feel anything. I was like I am happy I'm alive. I didn't need the house. I don't need anything. I just want to be alive and safe.

And each day I was praying my mom, I, our dog are safe and that's actually all I need.

LEMON: Are there lots of people like you?

T. RUSANOVA: Many.

LEMON (voice over): The war weary, now a common sight in Lviv as many Ukrainians came here to escape Russian strikes in the east. [01:34:53]

LEMON: Lviv is a relatively safe city, as safe as you can be in war, usually more than 700,000 people live here.

(on camera): Now there are more than 200,000 new refugees. You don't have to go far to find a family or someone who has been displaced.

(voice over): Even in Lviv, the fighting is never far away.

D. RUSANOVA: Here we feel much more safely, although here also some air signals and we need to go to shelters anyway. And we cannot relax here fully.

LEMON: The war hasn't just changed her external circumstances, it has changed something deep inside.

D. RUSANOVA: I didn't know I could hate people so much, but I really hate people who came to our country, and did all that with my beloved city, with my neighbors, with my friends. A lot of people lost their homes, their families, their pets. They had to flee somewhere. Not knowing if they find shelter or not. That is so awful, I really hate all that.

LEMON: And without an end to the fighting in sight, Darina, her mother, and so many Ukrainians have no idea what to expect next. What else could change?

D. RUSANOVA: I am just here with one bag, and with my cats, and mom too, with her bag, and with a dog. And that's all our life now. We cannot really plan something, we just plan our next step for the next day.

LEMON (on camera): Day to day.

D. RUSANOVA: Yes, day to day.

(CROSSTALK)

LEMON: Day to day.

D. RUSANOVA: Yes.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GORANI: That was Don Lemon speaking to one family. If you would like to assist people in Ukraine, you have compiled a list of organizations that have been assisting people in need of basics like, food, shelter, at CNN.com/impact.

Well I'll have more from Lviv, Ukraine at the top of the hour. First though let's bring in John Vause in Atlanta.

JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Hala, thank you for that.

Now so far -- no survivors have been found after China Eastern Airlines flight crashed on Monday. State media also reports that search and rescue crews are likely to be hampered by bad weather.

After losing airborne contact, the Boeing 737-800 with 132 on board plummeted from around 30,000 feet, nosediving into a mountainous region outside the city of Wuzhou.

The latest now from CNN's Will Ripley.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WILL RIPLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: These could be the final seconds of a doomed Chinese airliner. Surveillance video from a mining company in China shows a plane hurtling headfirst into the ground.

CNN cannot verify if this video is authentic, or if that plane is China Eastern flight 5735, a flight that met its fiery end Monday, 132 people on board.

An airline statement expresses sorrowful condolences to the passengers and crew members who died.

DAVID SOUCIE, CNN SAFETY ANALYST: It can only be horrific for the passengers, just a terrible thing to endure, but it did not last long, they were going 400 miles an hour and dropping very, very fast.

RIPLEY: Chinese investigators and state media say the plane lost contact with emergency services suddenly descending 25,000 feet, more than four miles in less than three minutes. A nosedive, witnesses say ended with a fiery explosion. Huge smoke plumes and wreckage scattered in the woods.

Bad weather making it even harder to reach the remote crash site. Mountains on three sides, only one narrow path in, no electricity.

Chinese President Xi Jinping issuing a rare statement within hours, saying he was shocked. Sending a small army of investigators to the crash site in southern China's Guangxi region.

SOUCIE: The fact that the president made such a pronounced and quick response to this, tells me that they are taking it very, very seriously.

RIPLEY: This is China's first deadly commercial air crash in more than a decade. Since 2010 China made sweeping safety improvements after a series of crashes in the 1990s and 2000s.

Monday's crash involving a Boeing 737 800, now grounded by China Eastern Airlines. The dual engine jet, a workhorse for global airlines. Thousands flying around the world, not the embattled 737 max that shook Boeing to its core.

SOUCIE: Any accident hurts the entire industry, but a Boeing accident in particular at this time --

RIPLEY: A company statement says "Boeing is in contact with the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board and our technical experts are prepared to assist with the investigation led by China's Civil Aviation Administration." Experts say information sharing could be extremely difficult.

For the already troubled U.S.-China relationship this crash could not come at a worse time. For the families of 123 passengers and nine crew members, closure may never come.

The impact so violent investigators say even identifying remains could be nearly impossible.

Will Ripley, CNN -- Taipei.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

[01:39:57]

VAUSE: When we come back, history in the making in the U.S. Capitol as Senate Republicans have some tough questions for the first black woman nominated to the Supreme Court. That is next right here on CNN NEWSROOM.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VAUSE: The U.S. Senate is making history, meeting with the first black woman ever nominated to the U.S. Supreme Court. With Monday's introductions now complete, it's time for questions and some Republicans are already drawing their battle lines.

CNN's Jessica Schneider has our report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Please raise your right hand.

JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: An historic first for America's highest court as confirmation hearings begin for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, the first black woman ever nominated to the Supreme Court.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JUDGE KETANJI BROWN JACKSON, SUPREME COURT JUSTICE NOMINEE: I hope that you will see how much I love our country and the constitution, and the rights that make us free.

[01:44:59]

SCHNEIDER: Senators of both parties made note of how monumental this moment is.

SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): You are showing so many little girls and little boys across the country that anything and everything is possible.

SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): I have said in the past and I think it's good for the court to look like America. So count me in on the idea of making the court more diverse.

SCHNEIDER: But Republicans previewed lines of attack they'll roll out during the question and answer sessions that begin tomorrow.

Senator Josh Hawley leading the charge laying out several cases where Jackson, while a federal trial court judge in D.C., used her discretion to hand down lighter sentences for child pornography offenders than prosecutors had requested.

SENATOR JOSH HAWLEY (R-MO): Prosecutors recommended 24 months in prison, Judge Jackson gave the defendant three months in prison.

SCHNEIDER: Judge Jackson will likely explain her reasoning for the lower sentences when she answers questions.

Today, Jackson defended her record.

JACKSON: I decide cases from a neutral posture. I evaluate the facts and I interpret and apply the law to the facts of the case before me without fear or favor consistent with my judicial oath.

SCHNEIDER: The White House has already said her sentences were in line with what the U.S. probation office recommends. But Senator Hawley preemptively rebutted her response Monday.

HAWLEY: Some have said that the federal sentencing guidelines are too harsh on child sex crimes, especially child pornography. I must be honest, I can't say that I agree with that.

SCHNEIDER: Republicans will likely also target Judge Jackson for being quote, "soft on crime", pointing in particular to her defense of detainees at Guantanamo Bay.

SENATOR JOHN CORNYN (R-TX): I understand the importance of zealous advocacy. But it appears that sometimes this zealous advocacy has gone beyond the pale.

SCHNEIDER: If Jackson is confirmed, the ideological split on the 6-3 court will remain the same because she is replacing liberal Justice Stephen Breyer for whom she served as a law clerk more than 20 years ago.

JACKSON: I know that I could never fill his shoes. But if confirmed I would hope to carry on his spirit.

SCHNEIDER: Republicans are promising no personal attacks, but things are likely to get a lot more heated Tuesday and Wednesday when the questioning begins of Ketanji Brown Jackson. She will likely have to explain her record as a federal public defender, as a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission and her near decade as a federal judge.

Jessica Schneider, CNN -- Washington.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: -- during Ukraine's 2014 Maidan revolution and now he's putting away his guitar and fighting to defend that independence.

[01:47:41] (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VAUSE: Well, eight years ago, he was leading protesters in song during Ukraine's Maidan revolution. And now he has put down his guitar, and he is fighting on the front lines to save that independence from a Russian invasion. Here is CNN's Sam Kiley.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Singing to protesters in Kyiv's Independent Square eight years ago as a rock star, he helped drive a pro Russian president from power.

Now the lead singer of the band Mandry Serhiy Fomenko is in uniform, fighting Vladimir Putin's invasion the old-fashioned way.

SERHIY FOMENKO, UKRAINIAN SINGER (through translator): Frankly speaking, these days have been very hard. I have a guitar, but I haven't been playing. Also the last two weeks have been very difficult because the enemy was trying to surround Kyiv so there was no music.

We evacuated people from Irpin, and it was a very difficult mission. We also had tasks in and around the city to accomplish. But I can't tell you everything.

KILEY: This though speaks loud, civilian homes ripped open, 3 million Ukrainians now refugees.

Putin says he has sent troops to save Ukraine from fascism. This is the real result.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hate, hate, I am a person who grew up in the Soviet Union. I grew up with the idea that we were brothers and sisters. And now there is nothing but hatred for them.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our latest volunteers are working extremely efficient --

KILEY: The singer Fomenko joined a reserve battalion, funded by former president Petro Poroshenko, the billionaire first president after Ukraine shook off Russian influence eight years ago. It's not just Putin he blames for the war.

PETRO POROSHENKO, FORMER UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: We cannot wait until the Russian people under the sanction pressure will not be happy with Putin. Because Russia has more than 50 percent of the support of the Putin aggression in killing Ukraine, that should be a sanction against these Russian people.

KILEY: The location for the billionaire's 206th battalion is a military secret but the militancy of his volunteers is not.

VOLODYMYR OMELYAN, FORMER MINISTER TURNED SOLDIER: Democracies will always win, maybe it will take longer than everybody is expecting. But Putin has chosen the path of Hitler. And we already know how Hitler ends. [01:54:53]

KILEY: For now though, Ukraine is preparing to defend the birthplace of it's modern democracy to the bitter end.

Sam Kiley, CNN -- Kyiv.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: Thank you for being with us this hour. I'm John Vause.

We'll be back live in Lviv, Ukraine with Hala Gorani in a moment.

But we leave you this hour with seven year old Amelia. You may remember her performance earlier this month. "Let it go" from inside a Kyiv bomb shelter. It was heard around the world.

Well Amelia has now since made it safely to Poland. She performed the Ukrainian national anthem at a charity concert over the weekend.

Here's some of them.

(MUSIC)

[01:56:13]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220322ei3m000jh


News; Domestic
Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) Is Interviewed About Ukraine-Russia War; U.S. Formally Declares Russia Committing War Crimes In Ukraine; NATO: Up To 15,000 Russian Troops Killed In Ukraine War; More Than 3.6 Million People Flee Ukraine; Senators Grill Jackson Over Record On Third Day Of Confirmation Hearing; Joe Biden's High-Stakes Europe Trip For NATO Summit Begins; Madeleine Albright, First Woman To Serve As U.S. Secretary Of State, Dies At 84. Aired 5-6p ET
Wolf Blitzer, Phil Mattingly, Frederik Pleitgen, Miguel Marquez, Paula Reid, Richard Roth
6911 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日
CNN: The Situation Room
CNNTSR
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[17:00:00]

PAMELA BROWN, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: -- clear weapons. In the face of serious challenges much like the war in Ukraine we witness today, Albright was an advocate for peace around the world. She received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2012, the nation's highest civilian honor. Madeleine Albright was 84 years old.

Our coverage continues now with Wolf Blitzer and the Situation Room in Brussels.

WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: Happening now, breaking news, President Biden just landed here in Brussels for critical talks with U.S. allies about Russia's war against Ukraine, as the bombs keep falling and civilians keep dying. The U.S. now formally declaring that Kremlin forces have committed war crimes.

This hour, we're getting new glimpses of the widespread destruction from Russia's invasion and a new estimate of the toll on Vladimir Putin's military. NATO now estimating that as many as 15,000 Russian troops have been killed on the battlefield.

Our correspondents are on the frontlines in Ukraine and a key locations here in Europe and in the United States as Putin's war heads into a second month.

We want to welcome our viewers in the United States and around the world. I'm Wolf Blitzer in Brussels and you're in the Situation Room.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is CNN breaking news.

BLITZER: We're live at the European Union headquarters here in Brussels tonight where President Biden has just arrived for urgent meetings with key allies as Europe faces its worst military and refugee crisis since World War II. CNN's Senior White House Correspondent Phil Mattingly begins our coverage tonight.

Phil, the stakes could hardly be higher for President Biden tonight.

PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, high stakes and a palpable sense of urgency as Western leaders are set to meet for hours over the course of the day tomorrow to try and do something anything to reset a dynamic that President Vladimir Putin has made clear is not going to shift anytime soon.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

MATTINGLY (voice-over): Tonight, President Biden arriving in Europe for a diplomatic sprint with the highest of stakes. As Russian strikes continue, even as Ukrainian forces mount their own offensives, dynamics driving palpable and growing concern about Russian escalation from the U.S.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How concerned are you about the threat of chemical warfare right now, that Russia will use chemical weapons. How high is that threat?

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think it's a real threat.

MATTINGLY (voice-over): And the world.

JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: And the use of chemical weapons with totally changed the nature of the conflict. And it will be a blatant violation of international law and will have far reaching consequences.

MATTINGLY (voice-over): On the same day, Secretary of State Antony Blinken declare the U.S. has assessed "that members of Russia's forces have committed war crimes in Ukraine." U.S. officials now pressing for an unequivocal show of Western unity and new measures to ramp up the pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin, including sweeping new sanctions on Russian government officials and oligarchs, measures to block sanctions evasion, and an increased NATO troop presence in Eastern Europe, including four new divisions set for deployment.

JULIANNE SMITH, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO NATO: We're going to have to make a series of ongoing assessments about our first posture that will take us weeks and months into the futures.

MATTINGLY (voice-over): Biden's arrival coincided with the first delivery from the $800 million in new U.S. security assistance. Even as Western leaders grapple with the acute danger of a moment, Putin finds his invasion stalled, something Biden addressed directly earlier this week.

BIDEN: And the more his back is against the wall, the greater severity the tactics he may employ.

MATTINGLY (voice-over): As the White House urgently works to shift the dynamic on a conflict that shows no signs of abating.

JAKE SULLIVAN, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: There will be hard days ahead in Ukraine, hardest for the Ukrainian troops on the frontlines and the civilians under Russian bombardment. This war will not end easily or rapidly.

(END VIDEO TAPE) MATTINGLY: And Wolf, U.S. officials are confident there will -- that there will be, in the words of National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, a substantial set of outcomes after the meetings tomorrow. One of the overarching pushes over the course of the next 24 hours to maintain that unity that has been almost unprecedented on the western side over the course of the last month, in the words of Jake Sullivan, for as long as it takes, Wolf.

BLITZER: Phil Mattingly here in Brussels for us. Phil, thank you very, very much.

Things are moving very quickly. We're learning new details of the scope of Russian casualties in Ukraine. And NATO now saying up to 15,000 Russian troops have been killed.

[17:05:00]

CNN Senior International Correspondent Fred Pleitgen is in Kyiv for us tonight.

Fred, these are very heavy losses for the Russian military. Update our viewers on the very latest.

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: You're absolutely right, Wolf, those would be very high losses for the Russian military and certainly seems to us as though there are several fronts with Russian military might very well be on the backfoot. One of them, of course, being here around Kyiv, especially in the northwest of this city. In fact, just as we went to air right now, we heard some multiple rocket launching systems that went off here in the Ukrainian capital, those will be Ukrainian multiple rocket launching system, obviously firing towards Russian positions.

But if you look at those figures that NATO put out and NATO sources a gave to us, they're quite interesting to see because they say a lot of the info that they're getting comes from the Ukrainians, they say that the estimated figure could be as low as 7000 but as you said, as high as 15,000. There's another one that's also really interesting as well is that they say they believe that between 30 and 40,000 Russian troops may have already been taken out of the battle. So that means either killed, captured or wounded, obviously, not fighting on the ground anymore, that would be a substantial part of the Russian firepower.

Of course, there are some estimations, estimations that up to 10 percent of Russia's military power that was originally amassed around Ukraine could already not be functional anymore. But again, very hard to determine whether that is really the case. Of course, the Russians have been saying Vladimir Putin's spokesman yesterday to CNN that everything is going according to plan for the Russians. But certainly, if you look at the situation around the Ukrainian capital here in Kyiv, but also if you go down to the south near Crimea towards Kherson, there seem to be some places where Ukrainian forces seem to be making headway is quite interesting, because our own John Berman spoke to an advisor for the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, and he also said he couldn't divulge too much. But he did say that there were areas where Ukrainian forces are making gains, Wolf.

BLITZER: You know, Fred, admits all of this, Russian forces are really wreaking havoc on civilians throughout Ukraine. They're destroying various Ukrainian cities like Mariupol, update our viewers on that as well.

PLEITGEN: Yes, you know that is absolutely correct. And Mariupol is really one of those. It's really the place, I would say, where you can see that entire tragedy. And some would even say crime unfold there, obviously, a lot of shelling is going on. We've obtained some video that shows some of the aftermath of that with, you know, things on fire there around Mariupol.

There's also some drone footage that shows the aftermath of some of those strikes that the Russians are conducting there. Of course, a lot of that you can see on your screen right now, a lot of that done with multiple rocket launching systems. You know, those are territorial weapons, those are weapons, like the one that was just fired off here. They're not pinpoint weapons, they cover a great deal of ground.

And you can see there in Mariupol just the extent of how many houses have been destroyed there, how many buildings have been destroyed there. And of course, you know, the civilians suffering from all that Mariupol, of course, one of those cities where people have been evacuated, but certainly very difficult situation as the Russians also now shooting into that city from ships as well, Wolf.

BLITZER: You're in the capital city of Kyiv, Fred, it's an area where Ukrainian forces say they are pushing back the Russian military. What's happening where you are tonight?

PLEITGEN: Yes, you're absolutely right. I mean, one of the things, you know, we've already just said that we have the multiple rocket launching system, it just went off the air. But it's really a theme that we've been seeing throughout the entire, I would say, about past 36 hours that you have heard the thunder of battle, especially in the north east of Kyiv. And the Ukrainians are now saying, there's one district called Irpin, which is a key area towards the Northeast -- Northwest of the Capitol, and there they say they've pushed the Russians out of about 80 percent of that place. And they say even the National Police of that place is back.

Now it's still under fire, but the Ukrainians are saying there are some gains that are being made. They're not sure whether they're going to be able to hold those areas. They're obviously trying as hard as they can. But they certainly believe that at least right here they have the Russians on the backfoot.

And one of the things that we also have to say, Wolf, is that here around Kyiv, you don't see much in the way of Russian airpower, Russian jets, Russian drones. And one of the reasons is, is that the Ukrainian Air Force is still very much in the battle real to speak to a pilot. Here's what we had say.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE) PLEITGEN (voice-over): Counted out early in the war, but still going strong. Against all the odds, Russia has not managed to ground Ukraine's Air Force. We spoke to fighter pilot Andre (ph), who was in an undisclosed location and hiding his identity for safety reasons

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): At first, Russian pilots dominated in quantity of fighters and newer equipment. Now, they're starting to refuse to fly because we're shooting them down. We try to work with tactics.

[17:10:04]

PLEITGEN (voice-over): Andre says he flies an SU27 air superiority fighter This is video provided by the Ukrainian military of the same model, an older plane but one that's still effective.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I shot down Russian planes. Unfortunately, I cannot say which and how many and how exactly, I shot them down. Air to air missiles, ground to air missiles were repeatedly fired at me.

There was a flight when we flew three against 24. It means our three fighters repelled the attack of their 24 aircraft.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): It's impossible for us to verify those claims but during our interview, we heard what seemed to be a Ukrainian jet taking off.

Andre says the U.S. helped teach him and his fellow airmen how to beat the Russians.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We have our tactics, we conducted the clear sky exercise with our American friends. We now are using some of the tactics we learned from the Americans.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): The U.S. and its allies initially believed Russia would own the skies over Ukraine just days after their invasion. But the spokesman for Ukraine's Air Force says they were ready.

YURIY IGNAT, UKRAINIAN AIR FORCE SPOKESMAN (through translator): We've been preparing for this scenario for eight years. It cannot be said that our military did not think this would not happen. We've destroyed 100 aircraft and 123 helicopters already.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): A lot of Russian aircraft have been taken down by shoulder launched missiles supplied by Western allies, but the Ukrainians also still operate longer range systems like the S-300. The Air Force spokesman says Ukraine wants Western missiles and U.S. jets.

IGNAT (through translator): I'm talking about NATO integrated air defense systems, an F-15 Eagle or F-16 Fighting Falcon. They may be unused or decommissioned ones but they could serve the Ukrainian military.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): For Andre, the battle for the skies over Ukraine is personal. Both his mother and his wife are helping in the effort to fend off the Russians, he says, and that he too is willing to sacrifice.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Everyone's afraid of being killed. It's one thing to die with honor. Another thing is to die without honor.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): The U.S. has said, Ukraine's Air Force remains largely intact and combat ready. The battle for the skies another area where this outgunned nation is persevering against all odds.

(END VIDEO TAPE)

PLEITGEN: And Wolf, of course, the Biden administration has also said that it would not set up a no fly zone in Ukraine. Of course, that'd be something that would be a big escalation in all this. But it is supplying the Ukrainians with help in the form of those shoulder launched antiaircraft systems and also other aid as well. Of course, we've been talking about that a lot.

As, once again, on this evening, we are continuing to hear those outgoing barrages of fire coming from Ukrainian positions firing obviously towards those Russian positions, something that's been a theme here as the Ukrainian say they are trying to make headway and tried to push the Russians out of the vicinity of the Ukrainian capital, Wolf.

BLITZER: All right, Fred, just be careful over there. We will stay in touch. Fred Pleitgen in Kyiv, the Ukrainian capital.

The breaking news continues. And we're live here from Brussels with the very latest on Russia's refusal to rule out the use of nuclear weapons. We'll talk about that and more with the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. That's next. Stay with us.

You're watching the situation room. We're live from Brussels.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[17:18:02]

BLITZER: More now on the breaking news, President Biden arriving here in Brussels as the United States goes on the record accusing Russia of war crimes and its unprovoked invasion of Ukraine.

Let's get some more on the late breaking developments. Democratic Senator Mark Warner of Virginia is joining us. He's the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee.

Mr. Chairman, thank you so much for joining us. As you know, the U.S. publicly, officially, formally declaring Russia has committed war crimes in Ukraine. The last time you and I spoke you told me you think war crimes have been committed, the U.S. needs to call out the leadership of Russia. So, what exactly does that look like?

SEN. MARK WARNER (D-VA), INTELLIGENCE CHAIRMAN: Well, Wolf, I hope what it looks like is maybe putting a bit of pause in some of the Russian leadership. I believe you will see NATO go forward and sanction virtually all the members of the Russian parliament, the Duma. I think there ought to be ability as well to potentially name those military commanders who are raining this hell on the Ukrainian citizens. I think they need to be held responsible.

And President Biden has got a big, big day tomorrow. He's got to maintain the coalition of NATO. maintain the G7, which includes, you know, obviously, major powers like Japan outside of Europe, and you've got the European Union. So keeping particularly on some of those frontline states who are quite nervous all together. Continuing to ratchet up the pressure economically and in terms of calling out the war crimes and making sure the flow of military materials. Those S-300 that could have longer range ground to air, additional drones that they get into the Ukrainians hands as quickly as possible.

BLITZER: And as bad as it is right now, and it's horrible, it couldn't get even worse. The Kremlin spokesperson, for example, Dmitry Peskov on CNN refused to rule out the use of nuclear weapons. What is the U.S. intelligence assessment on the likelihood of Putin actually using tactical nuclear weapons?

[17:20:06]

WARNER: Well first of all, let me say one of the things that we've seen over these 27, 28 days is this huge renewed confidence from the Ukrainians that, you know, they can hold off. And as your reporting was earlier, even in certain places push back the Russians, that drives Putin who is more and more isolated into more and more of a corner.

And this idea that he would threaten at least tactical nuclear weapons or threaten the use of chemical weapons, something that Putin has used, we believe in the past, puts us again into hugely uncharted territory. And I think you'll, you know, this is where you -- the President, along with the alliance needs to draw those red lines, but they boy o boy (ph), the unity, the alliance now will be tested like nothing before.

BLITZER: Two NATO officials, Senator, tell CNN that as many as 15,000 Russian troops already have been killed during these first four weeks or so. Does that line up with what you're hearing? What's the latest you can tell us about the actual situation on the ground in Ukraine?

WARNER: Well, Wolf, those numbers are a little bit higher than what we have, but frankly, they're all ranges. And both the number of Russian soldiers killed, the number of Russian soldiers wounded, actually, the number of Russian soldiers that have been captured, I think, is way beyond anyone's expectations of even a couple weeks ago.

And this information I -- what I would like to get more intel on is how is this being conveyed to the Russian people? Do they realize when do these coffins and body bags start coming home? When do people find out that their sons or daughters may be captured? That, I'd like to get some more visibility on because I think that would start to also weaken some of the will of the Russian people. We're already seeing the pressure put on the oligarchs that there's many of them that are at least privately grumbling? How much that will translate into Putin's inner decision making circle. That remains to be seen.

BLITZER: Senator Mark Warner, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, thanks so much for joining us. Always good to have you here in the Situation Room. Appreciate it very much.

WARNER: Wolf, stay safe.

BLITZER: There's more breaking news -- thank you very much. There's more breaking news we're following. We'll have the latest on the refugee crisis. More than 3.6 million Ukrainians have now fled, fled the country as a result of the Russian invasion. Stay with us.

You're watching the Situation Room. We're alive from Brussels.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[17:27:15]

BLITZER: We're live in Brussels tonight at the European Union headquarters and we're following the breaking news. The United Nations now reporting more than 3.6, 3.6 million refugees have fled the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

CNN Senior National Correspondent Miguel Marquez is in Romania hearing some of their stories.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Pianist Tetiana Shabaieva from Odessa, tonight, she's playing for Ukrainian refugees like herself.

TETIANA SHABAIEVA, FLED ODESSA: It's really important I think because it's a concept that I want to play for people and to give my energy.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Shabaieva fled with her 13-year-old nephew Nikita who she's helping raise, her mother and her five-month-old daughter Monique Amelie (ph).

SHABAIEVA: It was too much for my baby, too much because she can't sleep when it's all the time alerting. And this bombarding.

NIKITA SKRYPINIK, FLED ODESSA WITH HIS AUNT: It's very scary when you (INAUDIBLE). It's very scary.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): They left in a hurry leaving everything back home in Odessa and historical and strategically important city on the Black Sea.

SHABAIEVA: Suddenly I must take some luggage. Put -- how I can put all my library that I keep all my life. I have a big library in my apartment. MARQUEZ (voice-over): In Bucharest, nearly two weeks now, Monique Amelie already doing better.

SHABAIEVA: I will confess that I have everything that I need for life. My baby start to sleep, my baby starts to eat.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): But if not for her baby --

SHABAIEVA: But you know inside of me, it's a fighting. Because if I would not have a baby, I would be for sure go and fight.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): -- torn between family and fighting for her country. For now, they're staying in what was the Romanian office for Greenpeace.

(on camera): What is it today?

CRISTIAN NEAGOE, GREENPEACE ROMANIA: Today it's a place for refugee moms and their kids and, I don't know, a place where they can feel safe.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Several organizations help manage about 100 refugees in 660 different locations. The Greenpeace refugee center is the hub, Putin's war of choice, the motivation.

IRIINA MATAAESCU, CO-COORDINATOR, MOTHER HELPING MOTHER: How can we not help?

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Right.

MATAAESCU: How can we not be here with open arms and doors?

MARQUEZ (on camera): It strengthens your resolve --

MATAAESCU: Yes.

MARQUEZ (on camera): -- to help.

MATAAESCU: Yes, it's motivating us, of course --

MARQUEZ (on camera): All right.

MATAAESCU: -- from angriness to kindness somehow.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Shabaieva only had a few days to prepare, still each note struck emotion.

SHABAIEVA: Thank you for everyone look out for my country. Me, my family and the many families like I and my family. Thank you very much.

MARQUEZ: Shabaieva discovered her hometown came under rocket attack while she played making the music more emotional and the support here all the sweeter.

(END VIDEO TAPE) MARQUEZ: So look, as the number of refugees have declined, the number of Ukrainians coming across the border has actually the crock declining in recent weeks the number looking for permanent places to stay in places like Bucharest that is actually going up for Shabaieva and her nephew. They are now looking to say for the longer term. He by the way, that young man of 13 wants to be an engineer and he hopes to go back to Ukraine someday to help rebuild it. Wolf.

BLITZER: CNN's Miguel Marquez in Bucharest, Romania for us. Thank you for that report. Joining us now Pete Walsh. He's the country director in Ukraine for Save the Children. Pete, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you for all that you and your teams are doing.

Tell us what you're seeing all across Ukraine right now. How's your organization trying to help Ukrainian children whose lives have been so offended by this horrendous war?

PETE WALSH, COUNTRY DIRECTOR IN UKRAINE, SAVE THE CHILDREN: Well, thanks very much for the invitation, Wolf. And firstly, I think we just have to remind ourselves that this current extremely violent conflict that has been escalated since the 25th of February, 24th of February, actually began for many children in 2014. In the Donbas region, we saw a huge amount of conflict with children having to find cover and shelter from bombs and bullets.

And it's only now that we're seeing, you know, the effects of this conflict, actually layering on to the original conflict we started in 2014. So for children, this is for many children in Ukraine. This war started in 2014.

BLITZER: And it's nonstop and it's getting, obviously a whole lot worse, the mental toll on these kids is horrendous. Tell us a little bit about that.

WALSH: Sure, so these, you know, violence, ground attacks and arrow explosions are forcing families and children's into basements into makeshift bomb shelters, trying to shelter from the bombardments around them, and gunfire in the streets.

It's, of course, a serious situation that could cause immediate harm or danger or even death to children, but can also have significant immediate psychological and long term psychological impacts on those children as they try to find their place in life.

BLITZER: You're absolutely right, Pete. And we're grateful once again for what you're doing. Pete Walsh of Save the Children. Thank you. Thank you so much for joining us. An important note to our viewers once again for information about how you can help humanitarian efforts in Ukraine go to cnn.com/impact and help Impact Your World.

Coming up, another round of sharp questions and interruptions for a U.S. Supreme Court nominee Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson.

Also ahead, former President Bill Clinton will join me live in the Situation Room. We'll discuss the life and legacy of the former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright who died today at the age of 84. This is The Situation Room we're live from Brussels.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[17:38:12]

BLITZER: We'll bring you more on the breaking news on Russia's war on Ukraine in just a few moments. But first CNN's Paula Reid takes a closer look at day three of Judge Katanji Brown Jackson's Supreme Court confirmation hearing and another round of very sharp questions from Republican senators.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson facing a second day of intense questioning from lawmakers in a hearing that was at times chaotic.

JUDGE KETANJI BROWN JACKSON, SUPREME COURT NOMINEE: That's not what I've said, Senator.

REID: And contentious.

SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R-TEX): I just want to watch your protest.

REID: Republican senators once again use significant portions of their allotted time to focus on Jackson's judicial record in child pornography cases.

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): You're a mother. You seem to be a very nice person. Are you aware of how many images are out there on the internet involving children and sexually compromising situations?

REID: Senator Graham repeatedly interrupted Jackson's attempts to explain previous sentencing decisions.

JACKSON: No senator, I didn't say --

GRAHAM: That's exactly what you said. To put their ass in jail, not supervise their computer usage.

JACKSON: Senator, I wasn't talking about versus --

GRAHAM: You just said you thought it was a deterrent to supervise them. I don't think is a deterrent.

SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL) SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN: Senator, would you let her respond?

GRAHAM: Yes.

JACKSON: Senator, every person in all of these charts and documents, I sent to jail because I know how serious this crime is.

REID: Senator Cruz also later joining in.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX): You sentenced him to 28 months. Why?

JACKSON: Senator, I've said what I'm going to say about these cases, no one case can stand in for a judge's entire record.

DURBIN: Senator, would you please let her respond?

CRUZ: No, not if she's not going to answer my question.

[17:40:00]

REID: Committee chairman Dick Durbin admonished his Republican colleagues for their talking points appearing to appeal to movements like QAnon which peddles false conspiracies about Democrats and pedophiles.

DURBIN: Your nomination turned out to be a testing ground for conspiracy theories and culture war theories.

CRUZ: And videos --

REID: Cruz, Jackson's Harvard Law School classmate made news with his question about the upcoming affirmative action case going before the justices next term, where Harvard is a defendant.

CRUZ: We are on the Board of Overseers of Harvard, if you're confirmed, do you intend to recuse from this lawsuit?

JACKSON: That is my plan, Senator.

REID: Democratic lawmakers again using much of their time to allow Jackson to talk about her record and the historic nature of her nomination.

JACKSON: I do consider myself having been born in 1970, to be the first generation to benefit from the Civil Rights Movement. And so what my being here, I think is about at some level, is about the progress that we've made in this country in a very short period of time.

(END VIDEO TAPE)

REID: As the hearings wrap up, it's unclear if Jackson's confirmation will receive any Republican support. Now, Senator Graham, despite voting to confirm Jackson to be a circuit judge less than a year ago, he's a likely no and other possible Republican yes votes say they're still evaluating or they're saying nothing at all. So Wolf, this could be one of the closest Supreme Court confirmation votes in U.S. history.

BLITZER: We'll find out very soon. Paula Reid, thank you very much. Other breaking news that continues next. We're live here from Brussels with more than the U.S. formally declaring that Russia is committing war crimes in Ukraine. We'll talk about that and more with the White House principal deputy national security adviser. Stay with us.

And later, here in the Situation Room, former President Bill Clinton joins me to remember former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who died today at the age of 84.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[17:46:34]

BLITZER: We're back live here at the Belgian capitol where President Biden arrived just a short time ago to meet with allies about Russia's invasion of Ukraine now entering its second month.

Let's get some more of the breaking news. Joining us the principal deputy national security adviser to the president John Finer. John, thanks very much for joining us. As you well know, the President will meet with NATO allies at this emergency summit tomorrow. But how many more options do they realistically have to actually punish Russia without provoking an even more fierce response from Putin?

JONATHAN FINER, PRINCIPAL DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Well, Wolf, first of all, thanks for having me. I think you'll see the President tomorrow talking about this set of issues with our closest allies. And I think you'll see him focusing on the three-key aspects of our strategy first, continuing to provide all of the assistance, including security and military assistance. The Ukrainians that has allowed them to perform much better, frankly, on the battlefield than many of the experts expected coming into this conflict and certainly better than I think the Russians expected, which is why this has been a longer and bloodier for the Russian military going into this.

Second, I think you will see them talking about increased sanctions and other pressure steps that we can take to keep the pressure on Russia, it's already done a significant amount of damage to Russia's economy as you and others, no one ever reported.

And third, will be NATO troop presence on Russia's border in allied countries. You know, that is about reassuring allies in the face of Russia's aggression, and about demonstrating to Russia what President Biden has said, which is that Russia should not test it even one inch of NATO territory in the course of prosecuting this horrific and unnecessary war.

BLITZER: As you know, John, President Biden says the prospect of Russia's using chemical weapons is a, in the President's words, a real threat. Putin spokesman didn't rule out using nuclear weapons in an interview with CNN. Is the West prepared with a coordinated response if Putin were to use chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons?

FINER: Wolf, look, this is obviously something that we look at very closely. We have not seen any indications up till now that would cause us to adjust our force posture or our alertness but he's not -- there's nothing we could take more seriously than the possibilities that you've just described.

I will say, by the way that the use of nuclear weapons in this context would be unconscionable by the Russians, and that they should believe that and know that themselves having just signed on as a member of the UN Security Council, permanent member of the UN Security Council to a statement that said that nuclear war cannot be won and should not be fought, and we think that they should live by those words.

BLITZER: That's why it was outrageous to hear what the Peskov the Russian spokesman had to say yesterday. The Biden administration is now formally publicly officially declaring that Russian troops have committed war crimes in Ukraine. Does the U.S. believe that designation will have any impact whatsoever, though, on Putin's calculations?

FINER: Look, Wolf, this does not seem like a government, does not seem like a president, does not seem like a leader who is subject to shame, who is likely to alter his behavior in light of pronouncements like this, but it is very important regardless for the international community to stand for the proposition that there are ways in which war should not be fought. And that includes the deliberate targeting of civilians and some of the other outrageous steps that the Russian military has taken in the context of this fight.

[17:50:06]

We have made that declaration, our European allies have made that declaration as have other countries. And I think, you know, all they're doing is describing what your viewers have been watching unfold on your screens for some time, which is just an outrageous targeting of civilians by the Russian military during the course of this conflict.

BLITZER: YEs, this so, so horrible. President Biden's principal deputy national security adviser, John Finer, thanks very much for joining us. Appreciate it very much.

Coming up, we have other news we're following including sad news. Madeleine Albright, the first woman to become the U.S. Secretary of State has died at the age of 84 of cancer. CNN's Richard Roth has details of her truly remarkable career and her influence on western foreign policy after the Cold War.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

RICHARD ROTH, CNN SENIOR U.N. CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As a diplomat were attacked and treading gingerly on contentious issues all the norm, Madeleine Albright was never one to mince words.

MADELEINE ALBRIGHT, FORMER U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: This is not cojones. This is cowardice.

ROTH: Whether it was her colorful use of language condemning Cuba for shooting down U.S. pilots, or her strident assessment of the leader of Iraq.

ALBRIGHT: I don't think as a world has seen, except maybe since Hitler, somebody who is quite as evil as Saddam Hussein.

ROTH: The Iraqi dictator was said to be so incensed by Albright's verbal attacks, he published a poem in Iraqi newspapers calling her an unrelenting serpent. Albright's response was one of quiet defiance. From that moment forward, she wore a brooch in the shape of a serpent at every meeting with the Iraqi leadership, and she began using her pins as she called them as a way of sending subtle messages without uttering a single word.

Born Marie Jana Korbelova (ph) to a Czechoslovakia and diplomat, Albright and her family fled the former Czechoslovakia after the Nazi invasion in 1939, and later found safe haven in the United States in 1948. She became a U.S. citizen married media tycoon Joseph Patterson Albright, and had three children, all while working on her PhD and learning multiple languages.

In 1982, Albright took a prestigious position as Professor of International Affairs at Georgetown University, but it was the shock of her husband asking for a divorce around that same time that changed the course of her life.

ALBRIGHT: There was an identity crisis. As it turns out, I think those next 10 years were the ones that were the most influential.

ROTH: She poured herself into her work becoming foreign policy adviser to then presidential candidate Bill Clinton in 1992. Clinton in turn tapped her for the post of U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations after he won the White House. As UN Ambassador, Albright became known for her tenacity and determination to elevate us interests at the UN through what she called aggressive multilateralism.

ALBRIGHT: We must summon the spine to deter the support to isolate and the strength to defeat those who run roughshod over the rights of others.

ROTH: She pushed hard for U.S. boots on the ground in the Balkans. The U.S. administration chose diplomacy instead, a decision that came at a costly human price, and even bigger regret the failure of the U.S. to intervene to stop the Rwandan genocide in 1994.

ALBRIGHT: I Madeleine Korbel Albright.

ROTH: Lessons learned from her past and the present, as Albright cemented her place in history becoming the first ever female U.S. Secretary of State on January 23rd 1997. And the Kosovo conflict erupted in 1998, Albright lobbied forcefully for NATO intervention. The NATO led effort helped Kosovo gain independence from Serbian control, and the ICC indicted Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic for war crimes.

ALBRIGHT: Never again will there be massacres and mass graves.

ROTH: Through it all, Albright's experience as a refugee who found the American dream was omnipresent in her life.

ALBRIGHT: My life reflects both the turbulence of Europe in the middle of the century, and the tolerance and generosity of America throughout its existence.

ROTH: In her later years, Albright's comments and supportive Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton backfired.

ALBRIGHT: There's a special place in hell for women who don't help each other.

ROTH: She apologized for the timing of her so called undiplomatic moment in a New York Times op-ed and seize the opportunity to make a passionate case for gender equality by saying, my hope is that young women will build on the progress we have made, but that will happen only if women help one another. And for those who do that, there will always be a special place of honor.

(END VIDEO TAPE)

BLITZER: That was CNN's Richard Roth, remembering Madeleine Albright, who died at the age of 84.

[17:55:00]

And coming up, I'm going to speak live with former President Bill Clinton. He'll share his thoughts on the loss of Madeleine Albright. That's coming up very, very shortly.

Also, there's more breaking news we're following. We'll continue to watch all the late breaking developments on President Biden's high- stakes trip here to Brussels to huddle with allies as Russia's invasion of Ukraine unleashes terror on millions of people. We're live from the European headquarters, our special coverage continues next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

BLITZER: Happening now, breaking news. President Biden, now he's here in Brussels for an emergency NATO Summit on Russia's war against Ukraine. The Alliance considering new ways to punish Vladimir Putin's brutality --

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNTSR0020220324ei3n00001


News; Domestic
CNN TONIGHT: NY Times: "Tiger Team" Of U.S. National Security Officials Sketching Out Responses If Putin Uses Chemical, Biological Or Nuclear Weapons; Russian Oligarchs Face Increasing Social Backlash As Coordinated Sanctions And Seized Assets Pile Up; Sen. Booker Brings Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson To Tears. Aired 9-10p ET
Anderson Cooper, Frederik Pleitgen, Ben Wedeman, James "Spider" Marks, Susan Glasser, Evan Osnos, Miguel Marquez, Paula Reid
7084 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日
CNN: Special/Live Event
CNNSP
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[21:00:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: A significant part of the through line, in tonight's reporting, of the war, in Ukraine, is the performance of Ukrainian defenders, in the face of what initially were feared to be overwhelming odds.

Well tonight, with the war entering its second month, Ukrainian forces, as this outgoing fire, west of Kyiv demonstrates, are still holding their own, and then some.

According to a senior American defense official, they've actually pushed Russian troops, as much as 22 miles farther away, from Eastern Kyiv than just yesterday. And, according to NATO officials, may have taken the lives of as many as 15,000 Russian forces.

They have, of course, paid a large price, as well. More than 900 civilians have now died, according to the U.N., with that number expected to rise significantly. The number of military - excuse me, casualties is not clear. But it's said to be considerable, as the report, by Ivan Watson, in the last hour, from a Ukrainian cemetery, illustrated.

In addition, the Ukrainians remain significantly outgunned, especially in the air. But as CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports, now, Ukrainian pilots are more than answering the call.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): Counted out, early in the war, but still going strong. Against all the odds, Russia has not managed to ground Ukraine's Air Force.

We spoke to fighter pilot Andriy, who was in an undisclosed location, and hiding his identity, for safety reasons.

ANDRIY, SU-27 PILOT, UKRAINE AIR FORCE (through translator): At first, Russian pilots dominated in quantity, of fighters, and newer equipment. Now, they're starting to refuse to fly, because we're shooting them down. We try to work with tactics. PLEITGEN (voice-over): Andriy says he flies an Su-27 air superiority fighter. This is video provided by the Ukrainian Military, of the same model, an older plane, but one that's still effective.

ANDRIY (through translator): I shot down Russian planes. Unfortunately, I cannot say which, and how many, and how exactly I shot them down. Air-to-air missiles, ground-to-air missiles were repeatedly fired at me.

There was a flight when we flew three against 24. It means our three fighters repelled the attack of their 24 aircraft.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): It's impossible for us to verify those claims. But, during our interview, we heard what seemed to be a Ukrainian jet taking off.

(UKRAINE JET TAKES OFF)

PLEITGEN (voice-over): Andriy says the U.S. helped teach him, and his fellow airmen, how to beat the Russians.

ANDRIY (through translator): We have our tactics. We conducted the Clear Sky exercise, with our American friends. We now are using some of the tactics, we learned, from the Americans.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): The U.S. and its allies initially believed Russia would own the skies, over Ukraine, just days after their invasion.

But the spokesman, for Ukraine's Air Force says they were ready.

[21:05:00]

YURI IGNAT, UKRAINE AIR FORCE SPOKESMAN (through translator): We've been preparing, for this scenario, for eight years. It cannot be said that our Military did not think this would not happen. We've destroyed 100 aircraft, and 123 helicopters, already.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): A lot of Russian aircraft have been taken down, by shoulder-launched missiles, supplied by Western allies. But the Ukrainians also still operate longer-range systems, like the S-300.

The Air Force spokesman says, Ukraine wants Western missiles, and U.S. jets.

IGNAT (through translator): I'm talking about NATO Integrated Air Defence Systems, an F-15 Eagle, F-16 Fighting Falcon. They may be unused or decommissioned ones. But they could serve the Ukrainian Military.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): For Andriy, the battle, for the skies, over Ukraine, is personal. Both his mother, and his wife, are helping in the effort, to fend off the Russians, he says, and that he too is willing to sacrifice.

ANDRIY (through translator): Everyone's afraid of being killed. It's one thing to die with honor. Another thing is to die without honor.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): The U.S. has said Ukraine's Air Force remains largely intact, and combat-ready. The battle for the skies, another area, where this outgunned nation, is persevering, against all odds.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

COOPER: Fred Pleitgen joins us now, from Kyiv.

I mean, it sounds like morale is high, among the Ukrainian pilots?

PLEITGEN: Yes. You know what? You're absolutely right, Anderson. I would certainly say that it is.

And one of the things that Andriy was saying, he said, at the beginning, obviously, you have the entire Russian Military, coming at you, with Russia's massive air force, and obviously some of the very modern planes that the Russians have.

And, of course, the Ukrainians feared that they would get destroyed, pretty quickly that all their airfields would get destroyed, and they wouldn't be able to operate. But they said, as time went on, they found out that yes, they did have a chance.

And one of the things that he kept pointing out, is he said the training that they had received, on flying, with the U.S., for instance, with that Clear Skies maneuver that they flew together, with the Americans, some of the trainings they got there, really helps them.

They say what they do now is they don't just fly, to try and go out and get the Russians. They analyze everything. They come up with a strategy. They don't get pulled into any sudden moves. And they say that's really increased their survivability. And, as time goes on, they say, they do feel more and more sure.

However, of course, one of the things we have to point out, the Russians have a lot more planes, have a lot more modern planes. And there is, of course, big attrition, also, among the Ukrainian Air Force, as well. So, while they're holding up now, they also say it's not something that's going to go on forever, unless, of course, they get some sort of help.

And we've been talking about, the U.S. has been talking about it, a no-fly zone here is obviously something that's not in the cards, currently. The Biden administration has pointed that out.

But the Ukrainians are saying they believe that they need jets, in some way, shape, or form, in order to keep up the job that they're doing, right now, which so far has been pretty successful, Anderson.

COOPER: Fred Pleitgen, appreciate it. Thank you.

Next to CNN's Ben Wedeman, someone, who's covered conflicts, to a degree that very few reporters have. And been grateful for that experience, many times over the years. He's in Lviv. It's good to have you with us, Ben, tonight. Thank you.

We've had a lot of conversations, like this, over the years, about conflicts. What are your impressions, of what we have seen, thus far, in Ukraine, of where the war is?

BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anderson, let me preface what I have to say with this. As a child, and then as a journalist, I've covered or lived through about two dozen wars. I covered the bloodbath that was Iraq, the slaughterhouse that was Syria, where we've seen more than half a million people killed.

But what makes this conflict different, is the danger, it poses, to becoming something much wider. You have two major powers, the U.S. and Russia, on opposite sides. The proximity of this war to NATO is - poses huge dangers, the implications of this conflict.

And, of course, I've covered the Middle East, for many years. And, for instance, it's now planting season, in the Ukraine, for wheat and other grains. Countries in the Middle East depend on grain from Ukraine and Russia to survive. If the wheat isn't planted, you could have bread riots, across the Middle East.

If you thought we had supply chain problems, as a result of COVID, this war will dwarf what we've seen, after COVID. So really, it's just the scale and the potential danger of this conflict that really sets it apart, from all the other conflicts, I've covered, or lived through, Anderson.

COOPER: I mean, you've also seen what Russia is capable of, through proxy forces, or directly through their own forces. And that's obviously weighs over all the options, and what may happen next, from the Russian side.

[21:10:00]

WEDEMAN: Yes. And all you have to do is speak to anybody, in Syria, who's been, on the receiving end, of Russian firepower, or firepower, used by close allies, of the Russians, the Syrian regime. And it is brutal. It is indiscriminate. And it's just - it's hell on earth, if you think of what happened, in places, like Aleppo, a city I used to live in.

And, I think, people in the Middle East, who have experienced this, are watching closely, what's happening in Ukraine, and saying, "Deja vu!"

COOPER: CNN's Ben Wedeman, I really appreciate it, tonight. Thank you, Ben. Appreciate it.

Joining us now CNN Military Analyst and retired Army Lieutenant General James "Spider" Marks. Also, former Defense Secretary, William Cohen.

General Marks, a senior U.S. defense official said today that Russian forces are, quote, "Digging in," and they're establishing defensive positions, to the northwest of Kyiv city center. We've seen that with artillery pieces.

Strategically, what does that tell you? And do you think Ukrainian forces are going to be able to keep control of Kyiv?

MAJOR. GEN. JAMES "SPIDER" MARKS (RET.), U.S. ARMY, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, what it tells you is that the Russian offensive has stalled. We've been kind of describing that, for a couple of days. They're in transition to a defensive position, which is really giving the Ukrainian forces, an opportunity, to take the fight, to the Russians.

The longer question truly is, can Ukrainians continue to hold Kyiv? The short answer is, in the short-term, absolutely, when you look at the aggregate weight of all the logistics and command and control problems that the Russians are experiencing. So, the Ukrainians have reestablished the initiative.

And that will inject that force, the Ukrainian forces, with enthusiasm, and a real desire, beyond what they've already demonstrated. And it certainly gives the citizens of Kyiv some breathing space.

COOPER: Secretary Cohen, reporting, we had in the last hour, from the "New York Times," this evening, saying that the Biden administration has assembled "Tiger Teams," they call them, at the White House, from all different branches of government, to kind of game out what would happen, if in the event that Russia did use a chemical or biological or even a nuclear option, in Ukraine.

How significant - how important are those kind of meetings? And also, I mean, if there is, say, a chemical attack, which might be the most obvious, or the most likely, what are the options, to respond to that?

WILLIAM COHEN, FORMER DEFENSE SECRETARY: Well, I listened, to Ben Wedeman, just a moment ago. And he pointed out the danger that we're now all facing.

To the extent that the Russians decide to use chemical weapons, I think, they will have crossed a threshold, not to mention the nuclear issue, which I'll talk about, in a moment.

But to the extent that they were to use chemical weapons, on the Ukrainian people, I think they've crossed a threshold, at that point, where it's not just NATO that should be concerned about this. But every country in the world needs to be concerned about what Putin himself is doing.

To the extent he uses chemical weapons, what is our reaction? That's what the Tiger Team is trying to plan out now, to war-game it out, so to speak. What would be our level of discomfort, if he were to do that? How many people would he then kill? How do we see that?

All of these questions would then appeal to the emotional reaction, of those, in the West. And the question is, what do we do?

Would we then in turn, say, "Well, under these circumstances, I guess, we're going to start providing aircraft, to the Ukrainian Air Force, to make sure they get control of the skies." What other things can we do to really impose punishment, on the Russians?

But I really believe this, for some time, we have come to the point, where there needs to be some outside intervention. There is no one that's going to go to Putin, in the Russian chain of command, and say, "Mr. President, you made a mistake."

And so, he's sitting at a desk, which gets longer, and longer, every day. And they may have to add a wing on, to the Kremlin, to make it even longer, in the future, to keep people away from him. And so, that is a very dangerous point, in time, as well.

But we need outside help, from the Russians - the Chinese, and the Indians, the two big powers that either buy weapons, from Russia, or buy oil, from Russia. They need to intervene, and get to Mr. Putin, to say, "This can't go on because you're endangering us."

COOPER: Yes.

COHEN: As well as.

COOPER: General Marks, U.S. and NATO officials have believed that Belarus could soon join Russia, in its war, against Ukraine. How would - I mean, would that really impact the battlefield that much? Do you know much about the Belarus forces?

MARKS: I don't think it would impact it at all. In fact, it may be a negative value, to the Russian forces.

[21:15:00]

Look, the Belarusian forces are not very large. They're not sophisticated. Their equipment is older generation, older tanks, older infantry fighting vehicles. They have less than about 50,000 forces.

Granted, we had this great media show, about six weeks ago, where the Russians and the Belarusians were training together, we have no clue what that looked like. Was that really coalition warfare, with combined arms, in a joint force? It wasn't.

And so, if you were to inject Belarusian forces, into this fight, I would think that the Russian forces, the primary concern, they'd have is, "We're going to get shot by these Belarusians."

This is a significant concern. And so, if Belarusians are going to be injected, if I was a Russian commander, I would start very, very precise planning, and demarcation, and unit separation, because I'd be concerned, about what these guys would bring to the fight.

COOPER: Secretary Cohen, I just want to ask you about former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. She died today, it was announced.

COHEN: Right.

COOPER: You served together, obviously, in the Clinton administration. How do you think she should be remembered?

COHEN: Well, I knew Secretary Albright, for almost 50 years. And we were very, very close friends. I knew her, as a woman, of great passion, intelligence, commitment to democracy.

She and I helped to edit a study that was done, under the Institute of Peace, and the National Holocaust Museum, here, in Washington, preventing genocide, and going through, and analyzing, what has taken place, in the past, and how we tried to prevent it, going forward.

Well, we're seeing almost a classic case of what Putin is doing, at this point, by leveling cities. He's driven out 10 million people, out of their homes, who have no place to go. And so, I would remember her, as a fierce advocate, for democracy.

And I would say, she's also a happy warrior. She loved what she was doing. And frankly, I loved being in her company, and sharing evenings, with her, here at home, with our families. She was an extraordinary woman, and has made a great contribution, to diplomacy, in this country.

COOPER: Yes, an extraordinary arc, to her life, as well.

Secretary Cohen, thank you. General Marks, as well. Appreciate it.

Coming up next, a closer look at how President Biden's years of foreign policy experience, could inform his approach, to the crisis, today, with the NATO summit, on Ukraine, getting underway. We'll be joined by two writers, deeply versed, on the man, in this moment.

And later, with the yachts of Russians, being seized, and new sanctions in the offing, the question is, is any of it making them feel squeezed enough, to pressure Vladimir Putin? That and more ahead.

[21:20:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: With the war, in Ukraine, entering its second month, and concerns about what might happen next, deep enough, to call for an emergency NATO meeting, tomorrow, it's hard to overestimate the stakes, in the coming hours, in Brussels, or in the days and weeks ahead, for the region.

Into the crisis comes President Biden, who has certainly experienced the flavor, of such moments, before, as a Vice President, and before that, as a long-serving senator.

Wanted to talk about the President, and this moment, with Susan Glasser, CNN Global Affairs Analyst, and Staff Writer, at "The New Yorker." Also, CNN Contributor, Evan Osnos, who's written a biography, of the President, "Joe Biden: The Life, the Run, and What Matters Now."

Susan, how consequential, is this summit, for the President? SUSAN GLASSER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST, STAFF WRITER, THE NEW YORKER: Yes. Anderson, I just, I've been racking my brain, to think of what's even an example, of a comparable moment, for a recent U.S. president, in going into a summit, with allies, with war, literally, on the borders of NATO itself.

And I think it's almost, without a script, you have to reach back, perhaps, to George W. Bush, and 9/11, and the aftermath of that, in terms of the consequence of the kind of decisions that President Biden has to make, right now.

And again, I'm struck by the fact that he's just been insistent, throughout this crisis, in making alliances, and partnership, with Europe, the foundation of his approach, to Russia, in this crisis. So, it's probably the most important moment, I can think of.

COOPER: Evan, President Biden ran, in part, on his foreign policy credentials. It's really something he prides himself on.

It was interesting, because early on, he was being criticized, in this, in the run-up, to the invasion, for not being proactive enough. And yet, in the end, his ability to bring a unified NATO, to bear, in the conflict, has certainly, I mean, it's been working. The unification has surprised Russia!

EVAN OSNOS, CNN CONTRIBUTOR, AUTHOR, "WILDLAND: THE MAKING OF AMERICA'S FURY": Yes. I think that is the name of the game now, unification.

Because the longer this goes on, the more important it becomes, to shore up this unity, this sense of unanimity, across, let's face it, 30-member states. And there is this natural tendency, to say, "Well, the United States needs to be out front, always out front."

And that has to be balanced with something that Joe Biden has believed, for a long time, which is that, in a case like this, you have to let the European politicians, the European leaders, talk to their own people, on their own terms, explain to them why it is that they think this is important.

If the United States is seen to be sort of leading them around, that actually generates more resistance, than it does cooperation. So, what you're likely to see, over the next couple of days, is an effort, like that, to try to make it clear that this is as much a European initiative, as much an initiative, of U.S. allies, as it is simply something, coming out of Washington.

COOPER: Susan, do you think he can continue to keep NATO partners unified?

GLASSER: I mean, look, there are different interests here. You already see different approaches. Germany, not only has been historically more reliant, on Russian gas supplies, for example.

But even, just today, you saw the Chancellor of Germany, saying, "Well, wait a minute. We're not going to ban Russian energy imports, to Germany, right now, because that would be too punitive, on the German people." And that's a very different approach than some of the other NATO allies, and the United States, itself.

[21:25:00]

So, there are fissures, and you'll see Russia working to exploit them. That's a playbook, right out of the Soviet era, in which there was years of very effectively dividing, Western Europeans, from the United States.

But we're still in the shock moment, I think, of just one month, into this war. It's a crisis that has revealed a lot of business that Europe preferred to ignore, a lot of problems with Russia that they chose not to fix.

And so, I think, in this crisis moment, there's still the opportunity, probably to change course, for President Biden, and to move the Europeans more than he might have been able to do, earlier.

COOPER: Evan, though, in terms of options, I mean, they - I'm not sure how many more sort of sanctions, or what the next step would be, for trying to ratchet up the pressure, on Russia.

OSNOS: Yes. Part of this, Anderson, is about not just the short-term. And you will see some measures to address that. But it's also about the long-term.

It's about coming to grips with a new reality, in which Russia has essentially exited the global system. The invasion of Ukraine was, in effect, the moment when they are no longer treated as a normal country.

And this meeting is partly about rallying the rest of the world, to say, "Look, we have to think about, where does our energy, come from? Beginning to find new sources, so we're not so reliant on Russia."

And most of all, making it clear that if they take the step towards unthinkable weapons that the rest of the world is ready to respond. It really is a new era. And Biden is there to signal as much.

COOPER: Yes. Evan Osnos, Susan Glasser, appreciate it. Thank you.

Coming up next, a small Ukrainian sailing club, takes on a Russian oligarch's massive yacht. We'll discuss how this just one example, the kind of unwanted attention that sanctions have drawn, to the wealth of the Russian elite.

[21:30:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: We want to show you a video, we received, today, of an encounter, in Turkey, earlier this week. Shows a group, reported to be young Ukrainians, carrying Ukrainian flags, and "No War" signs, blocking a yacht, from docking. The yacht is reported to have ties, to one of the more high-profile Russian oligarchs, Roman Abramovich. Just one example of how the kind of attention, sanctions have drawn, to the wealth of these Russian elites.

I'm joined now by Brooke Harrington, Professor of Sociology, at Dartmouth University. Has written about the damage, the sanctions are doing, to Russian oligarchs. She's also the Author of "Capital Without Borders: Wealth Managers and the One Percent."

Brooke, thanks for joining us.

So, we saw that video, just played the Abramovich's yacht being protested. How much of a factor is social stigma, to these oligarchs?

BROOKE HARRINGTON, PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY, DARTMOUTH, AUTHOR, "CAPITAL WITHOUT BORDERS: WEALTH MANAGERS AND THE ONE PERCENT": I think it's a huge and kind of underappreciated factor.

And one of the ways you can tell is that even before Abramovich was sanctioned, anywhere, he was making big public noises, about not only selling his prized Chelsea Football Club, but donating the proceeds, to help Ukrainians. That's the act of a man, who is terrified of becoming a pariah.

COOPER: "The Wall Street Journal" is reporting that President Zelenskyy actually asked President Biden, and other allies, not to sanction Abramovich, because he could be a valuable go-between, with Russia, during talks.

Do you think something like - a gambit like that, if it's true, could actually be effective, at getting Vladimir Putin's ear? How much power do these oligarchs still have?

HARRINGTON: I don't think the oligarchs have the power to tell Vladimir Putin what to do. That's not their role.

But I trust that President Zelenskyy knows what he's doing. And I imagine, if I could try to put myself in his shoes that he might find Abramovich, a useful go-between, to Putin, almost like a cultural translator.

Because Abramovich has lived, a long period now, in the West. And he might be able to sort of translate this thing that seems very hard for Putin to understand, which is why this group of people, he considers Russians, that is the Ukrainians, why would they want to join the E.U., why they want to be part NATO, why they want to live like a Western democracy, instead of like Russians?

COOPER: The oligarchs are obviously facing incredible financial pressure, abroad.

Can sanctions, you think, I mean, compel them, in any kind of way, to really change events, in Ukraine, or to try to affect Russian foreign policy? I mean, if you say - as you say, they don't really have much power, over Vladimir Putin? HARRINGTON: I think, the sanctions have a different function. I'm not sure anyone really believes that Putin is taking advice from Abramovich, or Deripaska, or any of his other oligarchs.

Rather, what the sanctions have functioned to do is two things. One is they've made Putin himself look weak, by causing a split, between him, and his right-hand men.

Because as soon as the sanctions were announced, you had people like Deripaska, and Mikhail Fridman, writing these very carefully-worded sort of mild public statements, saying, "Gosh, I really wish Russia weren't invading Ukraine, right now," stuff that wouldn't even bat an eyelash, in most Western countries, but which are a sign of almost incredible brazenness, and audacity, for one of Putin's oligarchs.

It shows that he has not kept an iron grip, on his men, so to speak. And that's deadly, to someone, who's trying to project an image, of being an all-powerful strongman. It shows he's not invincible.

COOPER: Are there--

HARRINGTON: The other thing--

COOPER: Sorry, go ahead.

HARRINGTON: The other thing is that, if you remember, from the Panama Papers, six years ago, one of the things, they showed was that Putin keeps a lot of his personal wealth, by proxy, in the names of these oligarchs, offshore.

So, it's very possible that these sanctions, which appear to be freezing and seizing the assets of oligarchs, are actually freezing and seizing the assets of Vladimir Putin, himself.

COOPER: Is it still easy for oligarchs, at this level, to hide their money? I mean, in a world, where these sanctions have been installed?

HARRINGTON: There are dozens of tax havens, in the world. And it's almost certain that some of them will be happy to roll out the red carpet, for Russian oligarchs' wealth.

[21:35:00]

However, one of the things that enables Russian oligarchs, to be influential, in the West, which is their entire purpose, is to have their money, in respectable places. Nobody wants to just be rich. They want to be rich and respectable.

So, these oligarchs, they want to be able to say, "Oh, yes, I have my Swiss wealth manager, and I have my holdings in Monaco." But now, they can't say that anymore, because those tax havens, are expelling Russian holdings, and contributing to the seizure and sanctioning of these oligarchs. It's like they've been expelled from paradise!

COOPER: Brooke Harrington, fascinating. Thank you, really appreciate it. After escaping Ukraine, with her family, one pianist is using the gift, of music, to inspire other refugees. CNN's Miguel Marquez has her story, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: As the city of Odessa was shelled, one pianist, fled Ukraine, and took her family to Romania. That's where she's using her talents, to lift the spirits, of other refugees.

Our Senior Correspondent, Miguel Marquez, is in Bucharest, with the story.

[21:40:00]

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

(UKRAINIAN PIANIST TETIANA SHABAIEVA PERFORMS RECITAL IN ROMANIA FOR REFUGEES)

MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Pianist Tetiana Shabaieva from Odessa.

(UKRAINIAN PIANIST TETIANA SHABAIEVA PERFORMS RECITAL IN ROMANIA FOR REFUGEES)

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Tonight, she's playing for Ukrainian refugees, like herself.

TETIANA SHABAIEVA, FLED ODESSA, UKRAINE: It's very important, I think, because it's a concert that I want to play, for people, and to give my energy.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Shabaieva fled, with her 13-year-old nephew, Nikita, who she's helping raise, her mother, and her 5-month-old daughter, Moniqueamily (ph).

SHABAIEVA: It was too much, for my baby's, too much, because she can't sleep, when it's all the time alarm. And there's bombarding.

NIKITA SKRYPINIK, FLED ODESSA WITH HIS AUNT: It's very scary.

SHABAIEVA: Oh, yes.

SKRYPINIK: When you have bomb (ph), it's very scary.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): They left in a hurry, leaving everything, back home, in Odessa, an historical and strategically important city, on the Black Sea.

SHABAIEVA: Suddenly, I must take the some luggage, put - how I can put all my library that I keep all my life. I have a big library, in my apartment.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): In Bucharest, nearly two weeks now, Moniqueamily (ph) already doing better. SHABAIEVA: On campus (ph) that they have everything that I need for, for life. My baby start to sleep, my baby start to eat.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): But if not for her baby?

SHABAIEVA: But, you know, inside of me, is a fighting. Because if I would not have a baby, I would be, for sure, go and fighting.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Torn between family, and fighting for her country, for now, they're staying in what was the Romanian office, for Greenpeace.

MARQUEZ (on camera): What is it today?

CRISTIAN NEAGOE, GREENPEACE ROMANIA: Today, it's a place, for refugee moms, and their kids and, I don't know, a place, where they can feel safe.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Several organizations help manage about 100 refugees in 60, 6-0, different locations.

The Greenpeace refugee center is the hub. Putin's war of choice, the motivation.

IRINA MATAAESCU, CO-COORDINATOR, MOTHERS HELPING MOTHERS: How can we not help?

MARQUEZ (on camera): Right.

MATAAESCU: How can we not be here, with open arms and doors?

MARQUEZ (on camera): It strengthens your resolve?

MATAAESCU: Yes.

MARQUEZ (on camera): To help?

MATAAESCU: Yes. It's motivating us. Of course.

MARQUEZ (on camera): Yes, right.

MATAAESCU: From angriness, to kindness, somehow.

(UKRAINIAN PIANIST TETIANA SHABAIEVA PERFORMS RECITAL IN ROMANIA FOR REFUGEES)

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Shabaieva only had a few days to prepare. Still, each note struck emotion.

(UKRAINIAN PIANIST TETIANA SHABAIEVA PERFORMS RECITAL IN ROMANIA FOR REFUGEES)

SHABAIEVA: Thank you for everyone, who've come, who're helping my country, me, my family, and many families, like I, and my family. Thank you very much.

(UKRAINIAN PIANIST TETIANA SHABAIEVA PERFORMS RECITAL IN ROMANIA FOR REFUGEES)

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Shabaieva discovered her hometown came under rocket attack, while she played, making the music more emotional, and the support here, all the sweeter.

(UKRAINIAN PIANIST TETIANA SHABAIEVA PERFORMS RECITAL IN ROMANIA FOR REFUGEES)

(AUDIENCE APPLAUSE)

(END VIDEOTAPE)

COOPER: Wow!

Miguel, you've been in Romania now, for several weeks. Is the refugee situation changing there? And if so, how?

MARQUEZ: It is. When we first got here, there were just tons, 30,000 a day, coming across the border, into Romania alone. Now, it's down below 10,000, a day, even lower than that.

But the numbers that are here that were intense, in temporary places, they are now moving, to places, like Bucharest, looking for more permanent space, looking for permanent housing, education, jobs, all this, the healthcare, all this stuff that you need for, not just weeks to live in a place, but months, and possibly years.

That young man that you saw in the story, Nikita, he wants to be an engineer, and hopes to go back, someday, to Ukraine, to help rebuild the country.

I mean, that's the other thing that's interesting, is to talk to these refugees, and realize that if anything, Putin has brought the Ukrainians, together, and that sense of nationalism, belonging, place and home, has never been stronger.

COOPER: Yes.

MARQUEZ: Anderson?

COOPER: Miguel Marquez, appreciate it. Thank you.

Back in Washington, the confirmation hearings, for Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson, are winding down.

But there were more attacks on the judge, on day three. We'll show you those, as well as the lighter moments, highlights, next.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KETANJI BROWN JACKSON, SUPREME COURT NOMINEE: I take my responsibilities, not only--

(END VIDEO CLIP)

[21:45:00] (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: President Biden's historic Supreme Court nominee, finished answering questions, tonight, from senators, who will soon vote, on advancing her nomination.

Day three of confirmation hearings, for Ketanji Brown Jackson, shaped up to be very tense, at times, but also moving, for many in the room, including the nominee, herself.

CNN's Paula Reid has details.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Supreme Court nominee, Ketanji Brown Jackson, facing questions, from increasingly hostile Republican lawmakers.

BROWN JACKSON: That's not what I've said, Senator.

REID (voice-over): The hearing was often contentious.

SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX): --to answer a question.

(SEN. DICK DURBIN BANGS THE GAVEL)

CRUZ: You can bang it as loud as you want!

REID (voice-over): Republican senators, once again, used significant portions, of their allotted time, to focus on Jackson's judicial record, in child pornography cases.

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): You're a mother. You seem to be a very nice person. Are you aware of how many images are out there, on the internet, involving children, in sexually compromising situations?

REID (voice-over): Senator Graham repeatedly interrupted Jackson's attempts, to explain previous sentencing decisions.

BROWN JACKSON: No, Senator. I didn't say "Versus."

GRAHAM: That's exactly what you said.

To put their ass in jail. Not supervise their computer usage.

BROWN JACKSON: Senator, I wasn't talking about "Versus."

GRAHAM: You just said you thought it was a deterrent to supervise them. I don't think it's a deterrent.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senator, would you let her respond?

GRAHAM: Yes.

BROWN JACKSON: Senator, every person, in all of these charts and documents, I sent to jail, because I know how serious this crime is. [21:50:00]

REID (voice-over): Senator Hawley's questions revealed Jackson's fatigue, with an issue that was relevant, only to a handful of cases, in her career.

SEN. JOSH HAWLEY (R-MO): You gave him three months. My question is, do you regret it or not?

BROWN JACKSON: Senator, what I regret is that in a hearing, about my qualifications, to be a Justice, on the Supreme Court, we've spent a lot of time, focusing on this small subset of my sentences.

REID (voice-over): Committee Chairman Dick Durbin, admonished his Republican colleagues, for their talking points, appearing to appeal to movements, like QAnon, which peddles false conspiracies, about Democrats and pedophiles.

SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL): Your nomination turned out to be a testing ground, for conspiracy theories, and culture war theories.

CRUZ: And videos.

REID (voice-over): Cruz, Jackson's Harvard Law School classmate, made news, with his question, about the upcoming affirmative action case, going before the justices, next term, where Harvard is a defendant.

CRUZ: You're on the Board of Overseers of Harvard?

BROWN JACKSON: Yes.

CRUZ: If you're confirmed, do you intend to recuse, from this lawsuit?

BROWN JACKSON: That is my plan, Senator.

REID (voice-over): Democratic lawmakers, again, using much of their time, to allow Jackson, to talk about her record, and the historic nature, of her nomination.

BROWN JACKSON: I do consider myself, having been born in 1970, to be the first generation, to benefit, from the Civil Rights Movement.

REID (voice-over): She wiped away tears, as she listened to Senator Booker.

SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): When that final vote happens, and you ascend onto the - onto the highest court in the land, I'm going to rejoice.

(SEN. CORY BOOKER BRINGS JUDGE JACKSON TO TEARS)

BOOKER: And I'm going to tell you, right now, the greatest country in the world, the United States of America, will be better, because of you.

(END VIDEOTAPE) REID: The committee is expected to vote, on advancing Jackson's nomination, on April 4, with a full floor vote, expected, before the Easter recess.

But, as of right now, it's not clear that Jackson will receive, any Republican support. Senator Cornyn says he's not inclined, to vote for her nomination. Senator Graham, who less than a year ago, voted to confirm her, as a Circuit judge, also appears a likely no-vote.

As for other potential Republican supporters, they either say, they're still thinking about it, or they won't say anything at all, meaning, Anderson, this could be one of the closest Supreme Court confirmation votes, in U.S. history.

COOPER: Paula Reid, appreciate it. Thank you.

Another night of intense bombardment, in Ukraine's capital, Kyiv. The sun will soon be rising there. And with each new day, comes the remarkable resilience, of Ukrainian people, who have not given up, their fight, for freedom. They're an inspiration, certainly. Want you to see something special, next.

[21:55:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COOPER: The Ukrainians are now four weeks, into this attack, on their country. Four weeks of fighting, and four weeks of dying, four weeks of fear, and of resolve. That resolve is something we have all witnessed firsthand. We've all seen it on our screens, all around the world.

A team from CNN Heroes put together a number of images, in recognition of the resolve that we have all been witnessing, to the tune of John Legend's "Never Break."

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We came to volunteer because we know that it's our home here.

(JOHN LEGEND'S "NEVER BREAK")

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Glory to Ukraine!

(JOHN LEGEND'S "NEVER BREAK")

We got a good thing, babe Whenever life is hard We'll never lose our way 'Cause we both know who we are Who knows about tomorrow? We don't know what's in the stars I just know I'll always follow The light in your heart

I'm not worried about us And I've never been We know how the story ends

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's a full-fledged war. And in a very difficult situation, we all resist, and we will continue to resist.

(JOHN LEGEND'S "NEVER BREAK")

We will never break We will never break Built on a foundation Strong enough to stay We will never break As the water rises And the mountains shake Our love will remain

We will never

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Glory to Ukraine!

(UKRAINIANS CHANT "GLORY TO THE HEROES!")

(JOHN LEGEND'S "NEVER BREAK")

No, no, never We will never

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody wants to be independent, to be free.

(JOHN LEGEND'S "NEVER BREAK")

No, no, never

The world is dangerous Throw it all at us There's nothing we cannot take

(AUDIENCE APPLAUSE)

(JOHN LEGEND'S "NEVER BREAK")

We will never break We will never break Built on a foundation Strong enough to stay

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We do have hope. Trust me, we're not one.

(JOHN LEGEND'S "NEVER BREAK")

We will never break

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There are a lot of people fighting.

(JOHN LEGEND'S "NEVER BREAK") As the water rises And the mountains shake Our love will remain

We will never No, no, never We will never No, no, never We will never No, never We will never No We will never No, never We will No

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): We will be defending our country, because our weapon is truth, and our truth is that this is our land, our country. This is what I wanted to tell you. Glory to Ukraine!

(END VIDEOTAPE)

COOPER: If you're wondering how you can help the humanitarian situation, in Ukraine, you can go to CNN.com/Impact.

The news continues. Want to turn things over to Don, who's in Ukraine, tonight.

Don?

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNSP00020220324ei3n00001


News
NATO deploys more troops to eastern European allies and vows to protect Ukraine 'against chemical and nuclear threats' - and says China is providing political support to Russia with 'blatant lies'
Rachael Bunyan For Mailonline
1546 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日 15:52 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* NATO leaders will agree at Thursday's summit in Brussels on deploying troops to Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia

* NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg also vowed to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia's invading forces

* Vladimir Putin has been accused of using banned white phosphorus weapons in Ukraine amid fears he may be on the verge of resorting to chemical warfare

NATO leaders are set to agree on deploying four new battle groups to the alliance's eastern flank to bolster their defence in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Leaders will agree at Thursday's summit in Brussels on deploying troops to Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, NATO's secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said.

'I expect leaders will agree to strengthen NATO's posture in all domains, with major increases in the eastern part of the alliance on land, in the air and at sea,' Stoltenberg said ahead of the urgent NATO summit on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The NATO chief also vowed to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia's invading forces.

'Tomorrow, I expect allies will agree to provide additional support, including cybersecurity assistance as well as equipment to help Ukraine protect against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats,' Stoltenberg said.

Vladimir Putin has been accused of using banned white phosphorus weapons in Ukraine amid fears he may be on the verge of resorting to chemical warfare.

Stoltenberg also accused China of giving political backing to Russia with 'blatant lies' as it attacks Ukraine, and warned Beijing against providing material support to Moscow's war effort.

'China has provided Russia with political support, including by spreading blatant lies and misinformation, and allies are concerned that China could provide material support for the Russian invasion,' the NATO chief said.

'I expect leaders will call on China to live up to its responsibilities as a member of the UN Security Council, refrain from supporting Russia's war effort, and join the rest of the world in calling for an immediate, peaceful end to this war.'

China, which has not condemned Russia's invasion and criticised Western sanctions, defended Moscow on Wednesday, calling Russia an 'important member' of the G20 after Washington raised the prospect of excluding Moscow from the group.

US President Joe Biden last week warned his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping there would be 'consequences' if Beijing provides support to Russia during its invasion of Ukraine.

Jinping and Putin earlier this year declared a relationship of 'no limits' following a visit by the Russian President to Beijing for the Winter Olympics.

Stoltenberg meanwhile said that the new NATO battle groups being deployed to Bulgaria, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary, as well as the existing forces in the Baltic countries and Poland, means NATO will have eight multinational groups along the alliance's eastern flank.

Stoltenberg said that the Ukraine crisis has shown that NATO must reset its deterrence and defence posture for the longer term.

Russia meanwhile refuses to rule out using nuclear weapons if it faces an 'existential threat', Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told CNN.

Pentagon spokesman John Kirby slammed Moscow's 'dangerous' rhetoric, and Biden warned en route to Europe that Russia may also use chemical weapons in Ukraine as its ground offensive stalls.

'Our armed forces and citizens are holding out with superhuman courage,' Andriy Yermak, a top advisor to Zelensky, said as Biden travelled to the summits of NATO, the G7 and European Union in Brussels.

'But we cannot win a war without offensive weapons, without medium-range missiles that can be a means of deterrence,' Yermak said.

NATO warned on Wednesday against Russia's war in Ukraine sliding into a nuclear confrontation between Moscow and the West.

'Russia should stop this dangerous irresponsible nuclear rhetoric,' Stoltenberg said. 'But let there be no doubt about our readiness to protect and defend allies against any threat anytime.'

'Russia must understand that it can never win a nuclear war,' he said on the eve of a summit of the Western military alliance's national leaders in Brussels. 'NATO is not part of the conflict... it provides support to Ukraine but isn't part of the conflict.'

'NATO will not send the troops into Ukraine... It is extremely important to provide support to Ukraine and we are stepping up. But at the same time it is also extremely important to prevent this conflict becoming a full-fledged war between NATO and Russia.

The Ukrainian authorities have accused Putin of using white phosphorus munitions on the city of Kramatorsk.

While strictly not considered a chemical weapon, the substance burns fiercely and can cause horrendous injuries, and its use on civilians constitutes a war crime.

Human Rights Watch says the incendiary weapons are 'among the cruellest' in modern warfare as they cause 'lifelong human suffering'.

The deputy head of Kyiv police, Oleksiy Biloshytskiy, said on Facebook: 'Another use of phosphorus ammunitions in Kramatorsk.'

He shared a video of a substance burning like the chemical which Russian troops have already been accused of using in the cities of Lutsk and Popasna.

'What we're seeing is a near desperate attempt by the Russians to gain some momentum and try to turn the course of this in their favour,' a defence official said.

Stoltenberg also today said Belarus has been 'complicit' in Russia's invasion of Ukraine even before it was launched, allowing its territory to be used for massing troops, and it continues to enable the invasion.

He told a news conference on the eve of a NATO summit in Brussels that Belarus has also allowed its military airfields to be used by Russian forces to launch attacks on Ukrainian cities and civilians.

Meanwhile, Ukraine appealed for more Western military help ahead of a NATO summit, as it warned that almost 100,000 people are trapped by Russian bombardment and facing starvation in the ruins of the besieged port of Mariupol.

Tens of thousands of residents have already fled the southern city, bringing harrowing testimony of a 'freezing hellscape riddled with dead bodies and destroyed buildings', according to Human Rights Watch.

As the UN demanded Russia end its 'unwinnable' war, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told the Japanese parliament that the UN Security Council was dysfunctional and in need of reform, after Russia wielded its veto to nix condemnation of its invasion.

Nearly a month on, peace talks have agreed on daily humanitarian corridors for refugees, and Ukraine says it is willing to countenance some Russian demands subject to a national referendum.

But it has refused to bow to Russian pressure to disarm and renounce all Western alliances, and Zelensky was also due Thursday to address a NATO meeting in Brussels joined by US President Joe Biden.

Ukraine's lead negotiator Mykhaylo Podolyak said the peace talks were encountering 'significant difficulties', after Moscow accused the United States of undermining the process.

Western leaders have grown increasingly concerned that Russian President Vladimir Putin will use chemical weapons or otherwise escalate tactics four weeks into an invasion where his troops have failed to capture a single major Ukrainian city.

Leaving the White House on Wednesday, Biden said Russia's use of chemical weapons in Ukraine is a risk.

'I think it's a real threat,' he said.

Biden and his team have been developing plans to impose sanctions on members of the Duma, Russia's parliament, in retaliation for Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to two sources familiar with the situation. The sanctions are expected to be announced on Thursday.

A White House spokesperson said 'no final decisions have been made about who we will sanction and how many we will sanction.'

'We will have additional sanctions measures to announce that will rolled out in conjunction with our allies on Thursday when the president has the opportunity to speak with them,' the official said.

On Thursday, Biden will attend an emergency NATO summit, meet with G7 leaders and address the 27 leaders of the European Union at a session of the European Council, White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters on Tuesday.

He said Biden will coordinate on the next phase of military assistance to Ukraine.

In addition to imposing fresh sanctions on Russia, Biden will work with U.S. allies to tighten existing sanctions to 'crack down on evasion and to ensure robust enforcement,' Sullivan said.

In recent days, Russia and Western governments have traded accusations over the possibility of a chemical weapons attack in Ukraine without producing evidence to back their concerns.

Biden has vowed not to engage in direct conflict with Russia but has pledged the United States will defend all NATO territory. He has ordered more U.S. troops to NATO's eastern flank to reassure edgy allies.

During his visit to Poland, a NATO member, Biden will visit U.S. troops and meet with experts involved in the humanitarian response to helping hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who have fled their country and those who remain

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220323ei3n006et


Boris Johnson said Russian president Vladimir Putin had already crossed a "red...
4940 字
2022 年 3 月 24 日 23:17 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Boris Johnson said Russian president Vladimir Putin had already crossed a "red line" with his "barbarism" towards Ukraine.

Speaking to LBC radio ahead of a Nato summit in Brussels, he said: "We all want to see some solution in Ukraine. Everybody is hoping that Putin will pull back and stop this incredible barbaric slaughter that he's engaged on.

"But the only way to do that - we think there's a huge amount of unity - is to keep going with the pressure that we've applied, and to increase it.

"And the point I'm going to make today is look, you know, he's already crossed a threshold of barbarism in the way he's behaving. People talk about new red lines for chemical, biological, tactical nuclear weapons or whatever. For me, the red line already has been crossed.

"He's bombing indiscriminately civilian centres. He's causing huge numbers of casualties in wholly innocent populations."

Boris Johnson suggested the UK could target Russian president Vladimir Putin's gold reserves in response to the invasion of Ukraine.

He told LBC: "We need to do more, and so we need to do more economically. Can we do more to stop him using his gold reserves, for instance, in addition to his cash reserves?

"What can we do more to sanction Swift? And then we need to do more to give the Ukrainians military support.

"The big thing that has emerged in the last month - the huge fact that the world now knows - is that the Ukrainian people will fight for their country. They believe in their country, they love their country. They're going to defend it.

"That was something we didn't really know a month ago. It's now absolutely clear. That's changed geopolitics. It means that we have a duty to help them. We have a duty to help them protect themselves and their loved ones. And so the UK is stepping up again."

Boris Johnson compared Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky to former prime minister Winston Churchill, praising him for giving the Ukrainian people their "roar".

He told LBC: "I think that President Zelensky has proved to be a quite remarkable leader of his people - he's rallied them and he's been their voice.

"He knows, as Churchill said of himself, he may not have been the lion but he's been privileged to give the roar.

"It's the Ukrainian people who have been the lion, and he's expressed their will and their sense of defiance."

Boris Johnson defended the UK's record on sanctioning Russia over the invasion of Ukraine.

He told LBC: "I think the UK - if you talk to people around Europe and the world, they fully accept that the UK was the first mover when it came to sanctioning Swift, which stops Putin getting payments for his hydrocarbons; sanctioning the Russian Central Bank, that's been absolutely crucial in paralysing the Russian economy; sanctioning Aeroflot, we were the first to do it.

"Yes, we have tough property laws in the UK, which meant that it took us a while to sanction all the oligarchs, but we've now done I think 1,000 individuals and entities, we are distraining their yachts, we're taking control of their homes.

"There is a huge economic punishment now being visited on the associates of Vladimir Putin. But... we've got to go further.

"My message today in Nato will be that there are ways in which the world can continue to intensify the pressure on Putin. And the more we do that now, the more pressure we apply now - particularly on things like gold - I believe the more we can shorten the war, shorten the slaughter in Ukraine."

Boris Johnson condemned Russia's bid to host the Euro 2028 football tournament.

The Prime Minister told LBC: "I think it's beyond satire that any football organisation no matter how bonkers and you know, driven by lucre they may be, would want to give Russia in the present circumstances the right to host a tournament."

General Sir Richard Shirreff said there is a "new cold war" and leaders at the Nato meeting in Brussels must prevent it from escalating.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the retired army officer said: "There has to be a recognition that there will be no peace in Europe while Putin is in the Kremlin.

"In Ukraine the war has gone hot.

"The task for the Nato summit today is to ensure that the necessary measures are put in place to prevent that war going hot in the rest of Europe, so we're now in a new cold war."

He called for a significant ramp-up of Nato forces on Europe's eastern flank, for more defence spending, and for western countries to continue to provide equipment to support Ukraine's fight against Russia.

Boris Johnson has said allies must "step up" support for Ukraine with sanctions and defensive military equipment as he warned Vladimir Putin is determined to "double down" on the invasion.

Speaking to broadcasters after landing in Brussels where he will attend a Nato summit, the Prime Minister said: "Vladimir Putin is plainly determined to double down on his path of violence and aggression, absolutely brutal the way he's treating the Ukrainian people.

"We've got to step up, we've got to increase our support, we've got to tighten the economic vice around Putin, sanctioning more people today as we are.

"Looking at what we can do to stop Putin using his gold reserves and also doing more to help the Ukrainians defend themselves."

Boris Johnson said the UK is sanctioning the Wagner Group, a paramilitary organisation seen as Vladimir Putin's private army.

In Brussels, the Prime Minister told broadcasters: "We've got to step up, we've got to increase our support, we've got to tighten the economic vice around Putin, sanctioning more people today as we are, sanctioning the Wagner Group."

The Government said it has sanctioned a further 59 individuals and entities in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss tweeted: "The UK has already sanctioned over 1,000 individuals and businesses since Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"Today, I announce 65 more including the Wagner Group of mercenaries, Foreign Minister Lavrov's step-daughter and the CEO of Russia's largest bank."

The sanctions target key industries supporting Russia's illegal invasion, including Russian Railways and defence company Kronshtadt, the main producer of Russian drones, the Foreign Office said.

It also confirmed the paramilitary Wagner Group - seen as Vladimir Putin's private army - has been targeted.

The FCDO added that six more banks have been hit with sanctions, including Alfa Bank, along with the world's largest diamond producer, Alrosa.

Individuals sanctioned include the billionaire oil tycoon Eugene Shvidler, founder of Tinkoff bank Oleg Tinkov, Herman Gref, the CEO of Russia's largest bank Sberbank, and Polina Kovaleva, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov's step-daughter.

Meanwhile, Galina Danilchenko, who was installed by Moscow as the mayor of occupied Melitopol in south-east Ukraine, has also been targeted, it said.

Some 18,600 visas have been issued under the Ukraine family scheme as of 5pm on Wednesday, the Home Office said.

So far a total of 34,500 applications have been submitted, according to provisional data published on the department's website.

All options are on the table when it comes to seeking to prosecute Russian President Vladimir Putin's regime for war crimes in Ukraine, according to the Government's top legal adviser.

But Attorney General Suella Braverman insisted the UK's preferred approach is to hold to account those responsible through the International Criminal Court (ICC).

SNP attorney general spokeswoman Angela Crawley asked in the Commons: "Given Russia is not a member of the ICC and will almost certainly refuse to recognise its jurisdiction, what discussions has she had with her international partners on alternate forms for prosecution, and does she agree with the view of former prime ministers John Major and Gordon Brown that a court could be set up specifically for the purpose, as was the case in Nuremberg?"

Ms Braverman replied: "All options are on the table and I will always defer and support my counterpart in Ukraine, the prosecutor general, in terms of my efforts to support her in terms of her choice of route for redress.

"But whilst we welcome the focus on accountability, we do believe that the International Criminal Court is the right place for those responsible for committing these atrocious crimes in Ukraine to be held accountable for their actions.

"That's why we're focusing all of our energy, led by the Deputy Prime Minister (Dominic Raab), all of our assistance and all of our resources on the ICC prosecutor's independent investigation."

Boris Johnson has met with European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen outside the Nato meeting in Brussels.

"There is one more thing I want to say to you but..." the Prime Minister said as he gestured towards the media who had been briefly let into the room.

Boris Johnson greeted Japan's prime minister, Fumio Kishida, at the Nato headquarters with a fist bump.

Mr Johnson asked himself "shirt tucked in?" as the pair entered their meeting room.

Downing Street rejected a Kremlin claim that Boris Johnson was "anti-Russian".

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Mr Johnson was among the "most active" leaders in opposing Vladimir Putin but had no issue with the Russian people.

"The Prime Minister is among the most active anti-Putin leaders. We have no issue with the Russian people and in fact we have seen many bravely protest - not least Alexei Navalny - against Putin's regime and call on them to cease this war," the spokesman said.

"But we are among some of the world leaders that have been the most proactive when it comes to taking steps to both defend Ukraine's interests and up pressure on Putin to change course."

The spokesman said there were "very strong defences in this country" in case the UK was targeted by Russia with retaliatory measures.

Boris Johnson is understood to have asked allies at the Nato summit to question whether they have done enough to support Ukraine against the Russian invasion.

According to a UK official, the Prime Minister said: "We all want Putin to come to his senses, put his tanks into reverse.

"He's gonna grind on. Only has forward gears.

He's already crossed the red line into barbarism.

"The heroism of the Ukrainians has fundamentally changed the geopolitics of Europe...

"People will ask, did we do enough? I don't think we can deny them in their moment of agony

"We have the means and they have need."

Boris Johnson and fellow Nato leaders were addressed by Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelensky at their summit in Brussels.

Nato general secretary Jens Stoltenberg said: "President Zelensky addressed us with an impassioned message, thanking Nato allies for the significant support we are providing and stressing the vital importance of even more military assistance.

"Today Nato leaders agreed that we must and will provide further support to Ukraine.

"We will continue to impose unprecedented costs on Russia and will reinforce allied deterrence and defence."

The leaders formally approved the deployment of new Nato battle groups in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, and Slovakia.

Following the Nato summit, a joint statement from the heads of state and government said: "We call on all states, including the People's Republic of China (PRC), to uphold the international order including the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, as enshrined in the UN Charter, to abstain from supporting Russia's war effort in any way, and to refrain from any action that helps Russia circumvent sanctions.

"We are concerned by recent public comments by PRC officials and call on China to cease amplifying the Kremlin's false narratives, in particular on the war and on Nato, and to promote a peaceful resolution to the conflict."

Nato is stepping up measures to protect Ukraine and members of the alliance from a Russian chemical or nuclear attack.

Secretary general Jens Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels: "Today we agreed to do more including cyber-security assistance and equipment to help Ukraine protect against biological, chemical, radiological and nuclear threats."

This could include detection equipment, protection and medical supplies, as well as training for decontamination and "crisis management".

Mr Stoltenberg said Nato's chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defence elements had been activated and "we are taking measures both to support Ukraine and to defend ourselves".

Asked whether the move was based on credible intelligence, Mr Stoltenberg said: "We are concerned, partly because we see the rhetoric and we see that Russia is trying to create some kind of pretext - accusing Ukraine, the United States, Nato allies - for preparing to use chemical and biological weapons."

Any use of chemical weapons "will totally change the nature of the conflict, it will be a blatant violation of international law and it will have widespread consequences".

He said Russia had used chemical weapons before - including in Salisbury - and had supported the Assad regime in Syria.

The Home Secretary Priti Patel has posted a photograph of herself on Twitter at a meeting with G7 interior ministers to discuss the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Alongside the photograph she tweeted: "Meeting of G7 Interior Ministers today to discuss our response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine - I set out the UK's humanitarian response and our schemes to welcome Ukrainians to the UK & the various forms of aid we are sending to Ukraine and the region.

"International allies must continue working together to denude (Vladimir) Putin of his ability to wage his barbaric war.

"There must be coordinated and robust enforcement of sanctions and firm action to protect the integrity of international law enforcement tools from Russian abuse."

Nato leaders were said to have agreed Russia using chemical weapons would mark a "fundamental change" in the Ukrainian conflict that would be met with a "very severe response".

A Western official said: "On the use of chemical weapons, we've all agreed (it) would be a fundamental change in the nature of the conflict that we would have to address."

But asked if that would include Nato troops on the ground in Ukraine, the official said: "I think it is highly unlikely that Nato would go directly into conflict with Russia because every leader agrees that we've got to stop the killing."

Most believe, the official said, that Nato entering the conflict directly would only escalate it and increase the killing and human suffering.

"I did hear leaders say that leaders say use of chemical weapons would fundamentally change the nature of the conflict and would have to have a very severe response," he said.

But he declined to outline what the response would be saying "we need to keep (Vladimir) Putin guessing".

Defence procurement minister Jeremy Quin said the UK "will always have a sufficiency of the weaponry we need to meet our needs" after a hoax video featuring Defence Secretary Ben Wallace emerged.

In one extract of a hoax call between Mr Wallace and an imposter posing as Ukrainian prime minister Denis Shmyhal, released on Tuesday, Mr Wallace seemingly suggested the UK is "running out of our own" NLAW anti-tank weapons.

Mr Quin told the PA news agency: "We will always have a sufficiency of the weaponry we need to meet our needs, whilst also supporting our friends in Ukraine, which we've done very effectively through the provision already of 4,000 anti-tank weapons."

He added: "We will do what's right. We speak regularly to the Ukrainian government and we are working very closely with them, not only in the provision of defensive equipment ourselves, but also in the convening of donor conferences for both defensive weapons and also for humanitarian support."

Boris Johnson said the UK and allies would "ramp up lethal aid to Ukraine" as its forces resist Vladimir Putin's invasion.

Speaking at a press conference in Brussels he said: "We will not stand by while Putin vents his fury on Ukraine."

The Prime Minister said kit would be provided "in the quantity and with the quality" needed by Ukraine to defend against "its bullying neighbour".

Mr Johnson has announced an extra 6,000 missiles and £25 million in unrestricted funding for Ukraine's armed forces.

He also promised a "new deployment of UK troops to Bulgaria, on top of doubling our troops both in Poland and in Estonia".

Boris Johnson said: "We must support a free and democratic Ukraine in the long term.

"This is a fellow European democracy, fighting a war of national defence.

"Nato and G7 leaders are also united today in our determination to continue turning the screws on the Kremlin's war machine, including by weaning ourselves off Russian oil and gas and reshaping global energy security."

Boris Johnson has said Western powers are looking to "steadily ratchet up" the volume of military material they are supplying to Ukraine.

Speaking following the Nato summit in Brussels the Prime Minister said no Western countries were currently looking to put "boots on the ground" or impose a no-fly zone.

"What we are doing is steadily ratcheting up the movement of lethal but defensive weaponry to Ukraine, that is growing in volume the whole time," he said.

Mr Johnson said it was proving difficult to meet a request by President Volodymyr Zelensky to supply tanks and warplanes.

"What President Zelensky want is to try to relieve Mariupol and to help the thousands of Ukrainian fighters in the city. To that end he does need armour as he sees it," he said.

"We are looking at what we can do to help. But logistically it looks very difficult both with armour and with jets."

Boris Johnson said there was not "a single person around the table" in Nato or the G7 who "is against Russia or the Russian people".

Speaking at a press conference in Brussels, the Prime Minister said: "Absolutely not, least of all me. I think I'm probably the only Prime Minister in UK history to be called Boris, I think I have that distinction, and I'm not remotely anti-Russian."

He said: "But I think what we all agree is that what Vladimir Putin is doing, the way he's leading Russia at the moment, is utterly catastrophic, that his invasion of Ukraine is inhuman and barbaric.

"And the conduct of that invasion is now moving into the type of behaviour that, as I said before, we haven't seen in the continent of Europe for 80 years, and it's horrific.

"So you can be sympathetic towards ordinary Russians, who are being so badly led, but you can be deeply hostile to the decisions of Vladimir Putin."

Any use of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons by Russia would be "viewed with utter horror" by world leaders, Boris Johnson said.

The Prime Minister said: "There is a visceral horror of the use of these weapons of mass destruction.

"I think that if (Vladimir) Putin were to engage in anything like that, the consequences would be very, very severe."

He added: "I think it would be catastrophic for him if he were to do that, and I think that he understands that."

The PM said US President Joe Biden was right to warn that Russia's claims about biological laboratories in Ukraine could be a "prelude to a false flag operation and they could well do something.

"But I think it would be a profound and a disastrous mistake for Putin were he to do that," he said.

Boris Johnson backed the idea of Ukraine automatically qualifying for the World Cup later this year.

The Prime Minister was asked if he would support the idea after he earlier said Ukraine should be handed the hosting of the next Euros competition.

Speaking in Brussels, he said: "Sounds like a good idea to me but I'm out of area here, I've got to admit that's not my strong subject.

"I don't see why not, is my view."

He added: "Let me put it this way, given what Ukraine has been going through, given the privations that Ukrainian footballers have had to endure, I'm sure that every possible sympathy and allowances should be made for them."

The Prime Minister said he thought the threats over nuclear weapons were a "distraction".

He said: "It's intended to be a distraction from what is really going on and that is a savage attack with conventional means on innocent people in urban centres in Ukraine, absolutely barbaric use of artillery and mortars and rockets as I've described, thermobaric bombs included it now seems, that is what is going on.

"And what we're talking about is the right of the Ukrainian people to be equipped with the weapons to defend themselves and all discussion of nuclear weapons is intended to frame this as a confrontation between Russia as a nuclear power and other nuclear powers. That's not what's going on.

"What's going on is a confrontation between Russia and entirely innocent people in Ukraine."

Boris Johnson also suggested the Kremlin was "trying to get around the sanctions on their gold".

He said: "We're taking steps to try to make sure that there's no leakage or no sale of bullion into markets around the world."

President Joe Biden has said Nato had never been more united than it is now in the face of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Following an emergency summit of alliance leaders in Brussels, Mr Biden said Vladimir Putin had miscalculated on its response.

"Putin was banking on Nato being split. It was clear to me that he didn't think we could sustain this cohesion," he said.

"Nato has never, never been more united. Putin is getting exactly the opposite of (what) he intended to have as a consequence of going into Ukraine."

Mr Biden, who has previously warned that Russia could use chemical weapons, said there would be a response if that happened.

"We would respond. We would respond if he uses it. The nature of the response would depend on the nature of the use," he said.

Boris Johnson has said he is "not optimistic that Vladimir Putin really wants" peace.

In a clip of an interview with the BBC's Newsnight programme, posted on social media, the Prime Minister was asked how seriously he was taking the peace talks between Russia and Ukraine.

He said while it was "entirely the sensible thing to do" he added: "If this thing could be solved, it would be fantastic. I've got to tell you I'm not optimistic Vladimir Putin really wants that.

"I think he's decided to double down and to try to Groznyfy the great cities of Ukraine in the way that he has always tried to do and I think that's a tragic mistake. But that's what he seems to be doing at the moment.

"Therefore, we need to do more as the West, intensifying the sanctions, sending more missiles as we announced today, 6,000 more missiles, toughening up our sanctions, doing more to stop leakage of Russian gold. All the ways in which we can tighten the screw on him."

The full interview is due to be aired later on Thursday.

Boris Johnson said Ukraine could win the war with Russia.

In an interview with BBC's Newsnight programme to be aired on Thursday night, he said: "I think Ukraine can certainly win. I don't think it's going to be easy, I think that the situation for the Ukrainians is grim, miserable.

"I don't think that we've seen anything like it for 80 years in Europe and what (Vladimir) Putin is doing is unconscionable.

"But there's a sense in which Putin has already failed or lost because I think that he had literally no idea that the Ukrainians were going to mount the resistance that they are and he totally misunderstood what Ukraine is.

"And far from extinguishing Ukraine as a nation he is solidifying it."

Boris Johnson has said that, even if Nato does not grant Ukraine full membership, allies would provide the country with so much support that Russia would not consider invading again.

In an interview with the BBC's Newsnight programme, to be aired on Thursday night, the Prime Minister said: "Over time, you can imagine that even if you can't have an Article 5 guarantee for Ukraine - I mean, full membership of Nato, inside the thermonuclear umbrella as it were - you can imagine that Western sympathisers of Ukraine will provide so much by way of equipment, training, intelligence as to create a kind of deterrence for Ukraine by denial - deterrence by denial of Russian possibility to invade again.

"What I'm talking about is so fortifying, so strengthening, the quills of the Ukrainian porcupine as to make it in future indigestible to the Russian invaders."

The UK and western allies have linked Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB) - the successor agency to the KGB - to "a historic global campaign targeting critical national infrastructure", the Foreign Office has said.

The department said the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) was "almost certain" that the FSB's Centre 16 - which it said was also known by its hacker group pseudonyms of Energetic Bear, Berserk Bear and Crouching Yeti - had targeted critical IT systems and national infrastructure in Europe, the Americas and Asia.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "Russia's targeting of critical national infrastructure is calculated and dangerous. It shows Putin is prepared to risk lives to sow division and confusion among allies.

"We are sending a clear message to the Kremlin by sanctioning those who target people, businesses and infrastructure. We will not tolerate it.

"We will continue to work together with our allies to turn the ratchet and starve Putin's war machine of its funding and resources."

The Foreign Office added Liz Truss had sanctioned a Russian defence ministry subsidiary, the Central Scientific Research Institute of Chemistry and Mechanics, for an incident where malware was used to target safety override controls in a Saudi petro-chemicals plant in 2017.

The malware used against the petro-chemical plant caused two emergency shutdowns.

The Foreign Office said the FSB had also previously targeted UK energy companies and the American aviation sector, and it accused the FSB of trying to "spear-phish" the press secretary of Mikhail Khodorkovskiy, a UK-based critic of Russian president Vladimir Putin.

Spear-phishing involves sending targeted electronic communications to a specific individual, group or company for purposes of stealing data, espionage or fraud.

Boris Johnson has said he "totally agrees" that Brexit and the Ukrainian resistance to the Russian invasion are not the same.

The Prime Minister has come under criticism for comments where he appeared to compare the UK voting to leave the EU, and the Ukrainian fight against Russia.

Speaking at the Conservative Party spring forum at the weekend, he said it was the "instinct of the people of this country, like the people of Ukraine, to choose freedom", with the Brexit vote a "famous recent example".

But speaking to BBC's Newsnight programme on Thursday, he said: "That was not an analogy that I was making. I'm afraid that was wildly misconstrued.

"I said, I think in the same passage, that there's been nothing like what we're seeing in Ukraine since 1945 and it is a horror, and it can't be compared to anything since 1945."

The Prime Minister said he "of course" welcomes tough questions over his involvement in the partygate saga as he said such probing would not be allowed in Vladimir Putin's Russia.

In an interview on the BBC's Newsnight programme, Boris Johnson was asked what it meant that his position had been saved by the invasion.

He said: "I think what it says is that we're very lucky to live in a country where journalists can quite properly go hard on this sort of question, this sort of issue, because I can tell you, Nick, that is not what happens in Vladimir Putin's Russia, and it's certainly something that we want to make sure continues to happen in Ukraine."

Asked if he would therefore welcome tough questions about partygate, where numerous parties were allegedly held across Whitehall during Covid restrictions, the PM laughed and then said: "Yes, of course. That is what it's all about. And it's about...and I mean it quite seriously."

He added: "I think what people understand is that if Vladimir Putin lived in a democracy, and if Vladimir Putin had Newsnight on his case, and people asking him really penetrating questions about what he really thought he was doing in in Ukraine and whether he really understood what kind of people the Ukrainians were, and if he'd really thought it through, I don't think he would have made the catastrophic mistake that he's made.

"And in a way, what he has done - this appalling invasion - is paradoxically an advertisement for the importance of the very system that he's trying to destroy in Ukraine. That's what we're trying to protect."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220324ei3o001p5


News; International
Western Leaders Tout Unity After Emergency Summits; Klitschko Brothers Lead Battle to Keep Russians Out of Kyiv; Greek Prime Minister is Interviewed on War in Ukraine; Kim Jong-un Oversees ICBM Launch; Officials Warn Russia May Use Chemical Weapons; Refugees in Romania Use Dance to Deal with Trauma. Aired 12-1a ET
Hala Gorani, Nic Robertson, Frederik Pleitgen, John Vause, Beth Sanner, Miguel Marquez
6690 字
2022 年 3 月 25 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
HALA GORANI, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR/CORRESPONDENT: Hello and welcome to our viewers around the world and in the United States this hour. I'm Hala Gorani, live Lviv, Ukraine. It is just past six in the morning in this western Ukrainian city.

[00:00:04]

And we begin this hour with new reports of heavy fighting north of Kyiv, the capital. But Ukrainian forces say they're recapturing territory east of the capital, reversing some previous Russian gains.

And we have some new video from Irpin, northwest of Kyiv, showing huge clouds of smoke and buildings on fire. You see the extent of the devastation there. The mayor tells CNN that the city has come under heavy rocket fire from Russian forces, but that Ukraine's army still controls about 80 percent of the town.

And then in the southeast, we have new video from Mariupol along the southern coast, showing a downed power line tower, streets littered with debris, and apartment complexes reduced to rubble. It is just absolutely scenes of devastation there.

Russian forces have been pounding the city for weeks. Nearly every single building in the area has been destroyed or damaged.

And a U.S. assessment concludes that Ukrainian forces were likely behind the attack on a Russian warship in the port city of Berdyansk, which is occupied by the Russians.

Ukraine claims that the ship was destroyed. You see a big plume of smoke and an active fire there and that two others that turned around in a hurry and left the area were damaged in this attack.

Now, the fighting in Ukraine did not stop while U.S. and European leaders gathered for three emergency summits in Brussels. The meetings produced a stern warning to Russia against using chemical weapons in Ukraine.

The U.S. unveiled new sanctions on more than 300 Russian lawmakers. And President Joe Biden said he supports expelling Russia from the next G-20 summit in November. At the end of the day, the clear message was that western leaders are united in their support for Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Putin was banking on NATO being split. My early conversations with him in December and early January, it was clear to me he didn't think we could sustain this cohesion.

NATO has never, never been more united than it is today. Putin is getting exactly the opposite of what he intended to have as a consequence of going into Ukraine.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GORANI: Well, our international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson, is live this hour in Brussels. And what a difference one American president makes. Because we will remember, of course, under Donald Trump, so much NATO's skepticism and criticism of big international organizations and multilateralism.

And here, we have a pretty united front from western, NATO and E.U. countries, Nic.

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, this is, you know, a reset, a difference. That's what Biden promised to bring. He promised to be, you know, a standard bearer, if you will, for democracy and has found himself at the center and leading the unity of democracies against an autocrat on the child trying to overrun a would-be democracy in the country next to him in the Ukraine.

President Biden came to Brussels with that express purpose of making sure that there was unity, making sure that all the efforts that have been put in place so far, like sanctions like ramping up NATO troops on the eastern flank of NATO, that all of that is continued. That the unity is maintained. That that force that's been put on the eastern flank of NATO remains, and that it is continued. For the decisions to come from NATO on that in June, the leaders' summit in Madrid later this year.

But I think, you know, you paint this stark contrast with President Biden and President Trump. And we are in an entirely different place. And really, you do have a president of the United States who is leading the sort of democratic world order at the moment.

And the message not just for Russia to stop the fighting in Ukraine, to pull out of Ukraine, but for Belarus, as well. Not to exacerbate and worsen the situation in Ukraine. And a message for China, as well, that they need not to give military and economic support to Russia. And that they need to take a position along with the other international democracies in the world. So this is a much different place, as you say, Hala.

GORANI: Well, it's a united front publicly, but of course, there are some disagreements on the final, perhaps most drastic steps that these alliances can take. One would be imposing a no-fly zone or even a humanitarian assistance zone over western Ukraine. We're not there yet.

And also, there's this idea of really sanctioning the energy sector as a whole in Russia. And you have countries like Germany that are opposed to that right now, because they truly rely on Russian oil to the extent that stopping those shipments would result in, according to the German chancellor, a real painful recession.

ROBERTSON: You have the same message coming from Charles Michel, the president of the European Council. I spoke also today with the Greek prime minister. He said the same thing.

There is a limit to the pain that can be put on the populations of the European Union. What he alluded to there, the Greek prime minister when I spoke to him, was you know, the potential for -- for unrest and disquieted populations.

He and many southern European states are looking for the E.U. to provide a cap on energy prices at the moment. They need that because it's really hurting their economies.

So the idea that they would willingly worsen that situation by -- by blocking Russia's energy, oil and gas supplies to Europe, thereby furthering themselves more and putting up those energy prices more. The idea that they would do that, is perhaps one of the principal reasons that there weren't those additional sanctions today.

So there are divisions within Europe along the eastern flank of NATO. They're much more robust. The ideas that we've heard from the Polish president that there should be an economic blockade on the land and sea borders with Russia.

These maximalist approaches from some E.U. nations. And the others that, as you say, are concerned about rising energy costs. That points to divisions within the European Union.

And then you have that sense, as well, that the United States suffers less if there's a -- if Russian oil supplies and gas supplies to Europe are blocked.

The United States suffers less from refugees. It suffers less from the humanitarian outfall of what happens in Ukraine. And that's partly why we heard President Biden saying that the United States will take 100,000 refugees, why the United States would commit, you know, a billion dollars for the humanitarian assistance.

But it doesn't, if you will, really ameliorate that sense for some nations here in Europe that the United States gets to suffer less and that there are gaps and differences.

But again, that gets to that point you were talking about before, the importance of President Biden's visit. The importance of not being a president like President Trump and be able to bring and find unity where there is unity.

So you could look at this and say, President Biden recognized that he couldn't push the E.U. and NATO partners too far or as far as he would like to go.

And I think that is also an analysis you can make from what has happened here. There aren't a new big raft of sanctions. And there are other decisions that could have been taken in terms of military supplies that haven't. And that's because of differences among all the nations here.

GORANI: Interesting now. Angela Merkel is gone. So no more female heads of state at all. I mean, we have Ursula van der Leyen, which is not an actual head of state. She's obviously a leader within the E.U. It's all men there among the big economies of NATO, the NATO alliance, and the G-7.

Thanks very much, Nic Robertson in Brussels.

The U.S., the United Kingdom and other countries are funneling millions of dollars in armaments into Ukraine.

Ukraine's most recent requests is for thousands more anti-tank and anti-aircraft missiles. But Western allies are drawing the line on sending fighter jets. As Ukraine's president addressed the NATO summit on Thursday, he pleaded for a small piece of NATO's entire arsenal.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): Ukraine has asked for planes so that we don't lose so many people. And you have thousands of warplanes, but we haven't been given any. You have at least 20,000 tanks. Ukraine asked for 1 percent, 1 percent of all your tanks.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GORANI: Joining me now from Brisbane, Australia, is Peter Layton. He's a visiting fellow at the Griffith Asia Institute. Thanks for being with us.

Why do you think there's so much hesitation on the part of the United States, among other countries? Hesitation to provide fighter jets if Ukrainian pilots are flying them? What's the concern there?

PETER LAYTON, VISITING FELLOW, GRIFFITH ASIA INSTITUTE: I think that the president -- the president's latest call perhaps indicates that there's a change in the war, as well. But the Ukrainian forces are now starting to take the offensive.

And hence, the call for additional tanks.

GORANI: I understand the point about the NATO countries not wanting to be drawn into a direct confrontation with Russia. If, for instance, Poland, which is supporting the idea provides fighter jets to Ukraine, and Ukrainian pilots fly those -- those aircrafts, why is that more of a concern then providing anti-aircraft weaponry or RPGs or missiles, that type of thing?

LAYTON: I think for the past month, that the NATO leadership has been focused upon the Ukrainians defending their -- their territory. The Ukrainians are flying about -- so I understand, about 20 sorties a day with their aircraft. Whereas the Russians are flying a couple hundred soldiers.

Whether giving the Ukrainians additional aircraft would make that much difference is debatable. At the same time, though, NATO has decided to put four extra battle groups into the southern NATO frontier states.

It could be that NATO is about to get serious about re-supplying the Ukrainians with more than just anti-tank weapons and anti-aircraft missiles. And they're trying to beef up their defenses on the off chance that Russia at some stage decides they will hit Ukraine's resupply lines. I would also say that --

GORANI: So the --

LAYTON: The latest words about the -- the possibilities of chemical warfare are hinting at some future NATO move, as well.

GORANI: I'm going to get to that in just a moment. But first, let me ask you about what Ukraine is saying it needs in order to enforce its own, quote unquote, no-fly zone, which we understand NATO is not willing to do right now.

Can they, if they are given enough anti-aircraft weaponry? Because there's a difference between a missile that you can -- you know, a shoulder-launched missile, or a weaponry system that you can take a low-flying aircraft with, and the type of antiaircraft weaponry system that you need to hit much higher flying planes, which the Ukrainians don't necessarily have.

LAYTON: I think they could put up a good air defense in the western part of the country. As you say, Russian aircrafts have to fly very high because they have effectively ran out of smart weapons. And they're just -- and they're just dropping down -- dropping down bombs.

So the Ukrainians are clearly getting air defense information out of NATO forces. So they are tracking Russian aircraft. It's obviously a judgment call about NATO's part, whether they feel those extra aircraft would make a guided difference.

At some point, there would be a psychological change, though, where NATO feels that they need to -- they need to -- to get them regardless of their concerns of escalation.

GORANI: And Peter, just one last one on the threat of the use of chemical weapons. You started telling us about how NATO might be changing its approach to helping Ukraine with that threat hanging over -- over the region?

LAYTON: I think that last night's statement by President Biden about the chemical weapons would trigger a response in kind was certainly setting out a red line there.

The U.S. and the Europeans used long-range cruise missiles against Syrian forces when they started using chemical weapons, against just the forces using chemical weapons. If Russia starts using chemical weapons in the Ukraine, I think there's a possibility that NATO will use its military forces for -- for pinpoint attacks to, in fact, take out those Russian chemical warfare units.

GORANI: And then you have what they're trying to avoid, which is a direct confrontation. Peter Layton in Brisbane, Australia, thank you very much for joining us.

They are former boxing champs. Now they are fighting for their homeland against the Russians. Coming up on CNN NEWSROOM, we will speak exclusively to the Klitschko brothers after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:18:52]

GORANI: Well, in the battle to keep the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, from falling to the Russians, you probably could not find two tougher fighters.

Kyiv's mayor, Vitali Klitschko, and his brother Wladimir, know how to go toe to toe with an opponent. Both are former world heavyweight boxing champions, and they are vowing to defend their city.

CNN's Fred Pleitgen spoke exclusively with the Klitschko brothers.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As Vladimir Putin continues his assault on Ukraine, the U.S. believes taking the capital of Kyiv remains Russia's main goal.

But the city's mayor, former world boxing champ Vitali Klitschko vows Putin's troops will not enter this town. We met the mayor and his brother Wladimir Klitschko, himself a former boxing champion, in a secret location in Kyiv.

(on camera): Do you think that you have what it takes to fend them off completely, and that the city will not be taken by Russia?

MAYOR VITALI KLITSCHKO, KYIV, UKRAINE: It is our hometown. We never go to sleep. We don't want to be slaves. We don't want to beg the USSR to leave (UNINTELLIGIBLE). We see our country as modern European democratic country.

[00:20:08]

PLEITGEN: The Klitschkos are on the move 24/7, visiting residential areas shelled by the Russian army, sometimes getting emotional when seeing the aftermath of the Russian attacks.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Putin says he's only targeting military targets. Bullshit, sorry. Where is the military target?

PLEITGEN: Comforting those affected by the war and overseeing the effort to train those looking to confront Russian forces. (on camera): You really stepped up and really have organized the defense of the city. How did you manage to do that, learning that so quickly? Learning that on the fly?

V. KLITSCHKO: We don't need to organize. I meet people. We're very peaceful profession. Actors, musicians, doctors, never ever have idea to take the uniform and take the weapons in their hand. But right now, they're in the street and ready to fight.

A few days ago, that apartment building destroyed. One man, around 60 years old, coming to me and asked what they've been doing? What do I have to do right now? I give him a proposal to elevate him to my safety zone, to western Ukraine.

He told me, Mr. Klitschko, my mayor, I don't want to leave from my hometown. Please, give me weapons. I am ready to defend my family, my lovely Kyiv.

Instead of panic, instead -- instead of demoralization, the people are motivated so much and have the spirit to defend our future.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): But they're up against a strong and better equipped foe. As President Biden visits Europe to meet NATO allies, the Klitschkos' messages get tougher on Putin.

(on camera): What are your demands? What do you guys need to continue this fight?

WLADIMIR KLITSCHKO, KYIV BRIGADE OF UKRAINIAN DEFENSE FORCE: Our will is strong. And it's better and stronger than any army and any weapon. But we definitely need to close our sky.

Our civilians and our cities are getting destroyed. And it's continuing while we're giving this interview and speaking about it. The fights are still going on.

We need supply of the defensive weapons. And you guys just need to stop any economical relationship with Russia. This way, we will isolate them, make them weaker and just show that international law cannot be broken.

Oil. Obviously, the world needs oil and gas. But it's better to pay higher price than to pay with lives for that oil.

PLEITGEN: And so you guys obviously, you want a no-fly zone, I gather, and aircraft -- anti-aircraft systems and the like to beat the Russians in the sky. That's one of the most important things, right?

W. KLITSCHKO: If you supply us with defensive weapons, we're going to close the skies on our own. We have enough men and women that are going to stand for the country and will defend it as strong, as much as possible. And we're going to close the sky on our own. We just need the defensive equipment for that.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): Vitali Klitschko knows Joe Biden well. The two met both in Washington D.C. and in Kyiv when Biden was vice president and the U.S. front man for Ukraine policy in the Obama administration.

(on camera): What's your message to Joe Biden as he comes to Europe?

V. KLITSCHKO: Stay with Ukraine. Thank you very much for support. Support Ukraine. With our friends, we are much stronger. It's our future. It's our freedom. We're ready to fight for that. But we need support for whole democratic world.

PLEITGEN: The Klitschkos are international celebrities with massive fan bases in both the U.S. and in Europe. And yet they say, for them, there is no other place they want to be than in Kyiv, despite the dangers.

(on camera): You're some of the prime targets for the Russians, you know. They're out to get you. Why do you do it? What motivates you?

V. KLITSCHKO: It's our homeland. It's our parents here. We've grown up. It's our country. It's our home. And the simple answer, we have to be here.

W. KLITSCHKO Do you know this expression of roots? Our roots are here.

Our father, that was one of the Chernobyl survivors, and he was one of the liquidators that buried in Kyiv. And he's Ukrainian as could be.

[00:25:06]

Our relatives, our friends, every single street reminds us on some memories in life. And that's something that gives you so much strength. Because the truth is on our side.

This is -- pretty much reminds me like in a fairytale. The fight between the good and the evil.

PLEITGEN: Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GORANI: That was Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko, speaking to our Fred Pleitgen.

Western leaders are talking in Brussels about how to tighten the screws on Russia, but the Greek prime minister is warning that that may backfire on the E.U. His exclusive interview with CNN is ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:30:06]

GORANI: Well, as the fighting rages in Ukraine, western leaders are trying to show that they stand united in Brussels. But the Greek prime minister is warning about the price tag of sanctions on Russia.

He gave an exclusive interview to CNN's Nic Robertson, who joins us again from the Belgian capital -- Nic. ROBERTSON: Yes. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is concerned about the rising energy costs in Europe at the moment. Indeed, he's been a proponent of the European Union trying to find a way to cap those energy costs. Not all European Union nations feel the same way.

He really feels that there should be a much stronger drive for -- for stopping using hydrocarbons and moving towards renewables, like -- like wind, like solar, things that, actually, Greece has in abundance.

But that sort of, if you will, undergirds one of the differences in the European Union at the moment. And as Russia potentially puts on pressure on the European Union by throttling back gas and oil supplies, and the European Union considers not buying Russia's oil and gas as part of a sanction package, this really begins to sort of show up some of the differences within the European Union.

And that's one of the things I talked to him about. But I began by asking him about the mood inside that NATO leaders' meeting on Thursday.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KYRIAKOS MITSOTAKIS, GREEK PRIME MINISTER: I'd say a somber mood. And understanding that our world has changed. I think all of us, when we were elected to power, we never contemplated that we'd have to deal with a war on European soil. This is completely inconceivable. This is exactly what is happening.

ROBERTSON: Greece has given military support.

MITSOTAKIS: Greece has given a lot of humanitarian and also military support. We are -- we're currently hosting approximately 15,000 Ukrainians. We know we have to do much more.

But we're a country that is at the forefront of refugee crisis in the pass. So we're very, very sensitive, in terms of making sure that we can provide a safe place for Ukrainian refugees. And we will need. We know that in Europe, we all need to do more, because the numbers are just going to be overwhelming.

ROBERTSON: There's been a lot of talk about possibly blocking imports of oil and gas from -- from Russia to the European Union, but there are concerns. The -- the cost of energy in Europe is going up. I know that's a concern to Greece.

You're looking to the European Union to find -- to find caps on the cost of energy and a solution for that. Is Europe and the European Union becoming divided under this pressure from Russia over the level and type of sanctions it can apply?

MITSOTAKIS: We have put together a massive package of sanctions unlike anything we have done in the past. And these sanctions actually do bite. You will see the Russian economy contracting by maybe 10 percent.

All the gains that Russia has made over the past decade could be eradicated within a year. So these are significant sanctions. And of course, when it comes to energy, we need to be very careful that whatever measures we take don't end up hurting us us more than they hurt Russia.

ROBERTSON: But isn't that the point of sanctions, though? It's sanctions rather than fighting a war? And the freedoms of Ukraine, and the freedoms that this war, in essence, is about, they don't come for free.

MITSOTAKIS: No. And --

ROBERTSON: And the European nations and the United States must expect some economic pain.

MITSOTAKIS: But we are already -- I think we are already paying a price. We certainly all need to reassess our goal forecast. We're faced with significant inflationary pressures as a result of the war. And energy costs are really hurting. And they're hurting our citizens.

But at the end of the day, as much as we have an allegiance to support Ukraine, we also have an allegiance to our citizens to make sure that they do not suffer more than they can actually bear.

ROBERTSON: Is America getting ahead of the pain that Europe can bear on this with what America would President Biden would like to see happen?

MITSOTAKIS: I mean, the truth is that the U.S. is much less dependent on Russian gas than -- than Europe is. This is a reality. And of course, the energy transition now for Europe, this is no longer just a climate story. It's a geopolitical story.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ROBERTSON: I also talked to him about his assessment of President Putin's mental acuity at the moment. The idea that President Putin's officials still leave on the table the threat of use of tactical nuclear weapons. The idea that there are concerns that Russia may use chemical weapons.

He said that he thought some of that was saber-rattling. At the same time, he said he really hoped that President Putin could understand that there are red lines, bridges but you cannot cross and come back from.

He does hope that Putin doesn't cross those. He is concerned about it. But I think it paints that picture that there still the potential there for President Putin to back off and not be entirely alienating and pariah for the international community.

Although many nations around the table and NATO and the G-7 and the European Union council leader summit today, many nations may feel that, but that is not potentially a united position yet. There is scope for President Putin in the back of now. Although there is no indication whatsoever that he will do it however.

GORANI: Thanks very much, Nic Robertson live in Brussels.

I'll have a lot more from Lviv, Ukraine, at the top of the hour. But first let's go to John Vause in Atlanta.

JOHN VAUSE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hala, thank you. We'll see you again soon. But for now we turn our attention to North Korea and what appears to be a major escalation of its illicit weapons program.

According to state media, leader Kim Jong-un was on hand to watch the launch of the biggest ICBM ever made by the North and the first such test in five years.

This intercontinental ballistic missile was launched vertically, stayed in the air for 71 minutes, reaching a maximum altitude of more than 3,700 miles, traveling higher and longer than any previous missile tests before crushing into the waters between North Korea and Japan.

It fired on a standard trajectory. Experts believe the so-called monster missile could travel more than 8,000 miles, placing all the continental United States within range.

South Korea responded to the launch with a live fire test of its own missiles from land, a fighter jet and a ship. And along with the U.S. and Japan, condemned North Korea for violating U.N. sanctions.

When we come back, very real fears of chemical warfare in Ukraine, sparking all sorts of warnings which are growing louder. The warnings have done nothing so far to stop Russian aggression. So we'll assess the risk of a chemical attack or worse in a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:41:01]

VAUSE: The Kremlin may insist the war in Ukraine is all going to plan, but the official who's potentially the most responsible for the military offensive has all but this disappeared.

Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu has not been seen in public for most two weeks, despite being described as the public face of Putin's war.

A web-based independent news outlet in Russia reported that Shoigu was unwell. And after reporters began to ask questions about his whereabouts in recent days, suddenly, on Thursday he briefly reappeared on state TV, apparently attending a meeting. But there was no indication when the meeting actually happened.

CNN pressed a Kremlin spokesman on the issue, who would only say the defense minister is busy.

The warnings to Russia from NATO, the U.S. and now the G-7 are growing louder. The message from the German chancellor was blunt: Don't do it; don't use chemical, biological or nuclear weapons in Ukraine.

At the G-7 summit in Brussels, Russian allegations that Ukraine is preparing to use chemical and biological weapons were flatly rejected. And after an emergency summit, NATO announced it would reinforce defense systems to counter any such attack.

The U.S. president continues to insist a Russian chemical attack or worse remains a very real threat.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would the U.S. or NATO respond with military action if he did use chemical weapons?

BIDEN: We would respond. We would respond if he uses it. The nature of the response would depend on the nature of the use.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: Beth Sanner is a CNN security national analyst and a former deputy director of national intelligence for both the Trump and Biden administrations. She's with us this hour from Washington.

Beth, thank you for being with us.

BETH SANNER, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Thanks, I'm glad to be here.

VAUSE: So a month into this war and the Russians have failed to achieve their main objective. The Ukrainian resistance has exceeded even the most optimistic assessments.

The Russian military is taking up defensive positions in some places. So is it fair to say the Ukrainians have won the first stage, but that only raises concerns about the next stage and what Putin is prepared to do.

SANNER: Well, I don't know if we can really characterize anyone warning at this stage. I mean, certainly, they have surpassed all expectations. And in that way they're winning, right? They haven't lost. And I think that definitely, as a defender, not losing is winning.

But really, the danger is that we're entering this new phase of war where we have a stalemate. And it is a more dangerous phase.

VAUSE: I want you to listen to NATO's secretary general talking about preparations which are being made by the alliance in the event that Russia would use chemical or biological weapons. Here he is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY-GENERAL: Our top military commander, General Walters, has activated NATO's chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defense elements. Our allies are deploying additional chemical and biological and nuclear defenses to reinforce our existing battle groups.

(END VIDEO CLIP) VAUSE: He added that Ukraine will also receive special equipment to deal with a chemical attack. When the talking stops and the doing begins, what does that say about how serious the threat is?

SANNER: Well, I think it -- it is very serious. I mean, if you look at what's happening right now, the fact that they're actually taking steps to defend against a chemical weapons attack means that, to me, it's more just then the ongoing Russian rhetoric about a potential false flag that the Ukrainians might set off a chemical attack against their own people. That is continuing, but there must be more there.

And so I am guessing, as a former intelligence official, that there is intelligence this says there's more there, even though they don't have anything specific.

And so I think that this is the issue. You know, the summits -- the three summits today were amazing in -- in really exposing the genuine unity.

But at the point where Russia, if they are stupid and callous enough to actually set off a chemical weapons attack, if they did that, it would put that unity, the strains on that unity in a place that we have not seen.

[00:45:16]

Because any response, in my view, would require crossing some red lines.

VAUSE: Yes. And President Biden was very vague in terms of how NATO and the U.S. would respond to a chemical weapons attack. I want you to listen to the U.K. prime minister on the need for ambiguity. Here he is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BORIS JOHNSON, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: I think that, if Putin were to engage in anything like that, the consequences would be very, very severe. You have to have a bit of ambiguity about your -- about your response, but I think it would be catastrophic for him, if he were to do that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: So explain the need for ambiguity. Why not set everything out on the table? You know, the action and the consequences? Or is it the fact that they can't do that at this point, because there is just not agreement?

SANNER: It could be both. I think that, you know one reason that you don't want to put a red line down is that it's very hard sometimes to follow through with those red lines, as we saw with Obama in the Syrian chemical weapons attack.

But I think the other thing is that, as I was saying before, when Biden says that he -- it would require a reaction in kind, that doesn't mean that we would use chemical weapons, because the United States doesn't have chemical weapons. We got rid of them when the Russians were supposed to, and they didn't.

What it means, genuinely [SIC] -- generally, is that you go after the unit that perpetrated that attack. Well, that's kind of complicated, because if it's dropped by an airplane, those airplanes are coming out of Belarus and Russia.

If you go after a unit, it's going to be a Russian unit on the ground. And so I think any kind of response that we would do in kind would somehow break the -- the red lines we've already set about the U.S. not being directly engaged.

Or, it might be something like we'll set up the no-fly zone. And if we said that now, people would say, Well, why don't you do it now to prevent it from happening? Without really understanding that that really does put us directly in a fight with the Russians.

VAUSE: And very quickly, the U.S. appears to, at least, be in the business of right now drawing up the responses in the event of this sort of event taking place, right?

SANNER: Yes, for sure. I mean, militaries plan all the time, but we have this tiger team that the White House set up four days after the invasion. They've gone through all of these. They've got different courses of action, as they call them, for a range of what these attacks might look like.

VAUSE: Beth, thank you so much. Beth Sanner there. We really appreciate your time and your insights.

SANNER: Thanks so much.

VAUSE: Ukrainian refugees are finding ways to deal with the hardships of war. How a simple dance class helping parents and children deal with trauma and loss. That story in a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:52:16]

VAUSE: For so many new Ukrainian refugees, first there is relief crossing a border, finally safe from the Russian offensive. Then, a wave of emotion, from sadness, fear, anger, anxiety.

No wonder something as simple as dancing is a welcome distraction. A way to forget about the war and all it means, if only for a moment.

CNN's Miguel Marquez went to dance class in Romania for this report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Dance therapy for Ukrainian moms and their children fleeing war.

(on camera): How is the dancing, Yegor (ph)? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Awesome.

MARQUEZ: You're a very good answer.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I know.

(voice-over): The not exactly shy Yegor Yutsak (ph), five and a half years old. He and his mom, Tatiana (ph), are from Kharkiv, Ukraine's second largest city.

Suffering indiscriminate Russian rocket and artillery attacks since the war's start.

(on camera): How are you doing? How's he doing?

(voice-over): "I'm playing soldiers," he says.

His mom adds, "Yes, soldiers. He's always saying, 'Air raid'."

(on camera): If me and you were playing air raid now, how would we play?

(voice-over): "Show them how you play," she says.

"I'm shooting at a tank," he says. "Any tank I can hit."

(on camera): How do you explain what is happening in Ukraine?

(voice-over): "He saw everything," she says. "And now, he's repeating it. I think he'll play regular games when this is over, and he calms down. Games like cars and trains."

"No, no," says Yegor (ph). "It will be the same. I like it."

Yegor (ph), his mom, and godmother are one of dozens of families being housed by Jesuit Refugee Service in the local children's cancer charity, Magic Association.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The mothers, we see they can be tough when they're with their children, but when they come and speak to us privately, they break down.

MARQUEZ (on camera): You are a very good dancer.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you.

MARQUEZ (voice-over): Yelena (ph) and Sofia Orlova (ph), 7 years old, arrived days ago from Dnipro. Russian attacks have been pushing toward, and hitting, the strategic Dnipro region. The city's population, nearly 1 million.

Orlova (ph) and several of her relatives are now refugees, but not everyone. "My son is 18 years old," she says. "He has an injured leg but wasn't allowed to cross the border. My son is in Ukraine." She can barely speak the words.

Today's dance class, a welcome distraction.

"Today, this was a stress relief," she says. "For two days, we didn't eat or sleep, and we're grateful to relax."

The dance instructor, a refugee, too. He fled war in Cameroon.

"I want them to feel joy," he says, "because I know how it is to be in their places. It's very hard. It was very hard for me, too."

Sofia (ph) wanted to dance in Ukraine but was too young. Today, a bit of hope.

"My dream," she says, "came true."

A simple activity bringing comfort to moms and kids, refugees far from home.

Miguel Marquez, CNN, Bucharest.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: I'm John Vause at the CNN center in Atlanta. Back to Hala Gorani, live in Lviv in a moment. But we leave you with the music of a 9-year-old piano prodigy, performing his own composition, written in hope of sending a message of peace to Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

(MUSIC)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220325ei3p0008d


Energy sector should be part of new sanctions against Russia, Estonia says
122 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日 11:00 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BUCHAREST, April 4 (Reuters) - The European Union should speed up new sanctions against Russia and include the energy sector, Estonia's Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets said on Monday.

"We must continue to further pressure Russia to stop this war and from our perspective we must speed up with the next package of sanctions at an EU level," she told a joint briefing with her Romanian counterpart in Bucharest.

"Also we should sanction the energy sector, we should not have any limits to sanctions because this unjustified, brutal war must end." (Reporting by Luiza Ilie; Writing by Jason Hovet; Editing by Alison Williams)

Released: 2022-4-4T12:00:48.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220404ei4401m99


Estonian foreign minister: We must put even more pressure on Russia to stop war in Ukraine
713 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日 14:07 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, April 4 /Agerpres/ - Estonian Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets said on Monday that at EU level, but also at the international community's one, more pressure should be put on Russia to stop the war in Ukraine.

She emphasized, in a joint statement at the end of consultations with Romanian counterpart Bogdan Aurescu , that Estonia and Romania must continue to coordinate their positions as NATO 's Eastern Flank states.

Romania and Estonia have a lot in common, including a common European identity. We have similar views when it comes to neighborhood policy and transatlantic ties, but I think we can create an even closer connection between our two countries. After 100 years of diplomatic relations and 30 years since the restoration of diplomatic relations, we should find new ideas, refresh bilateral relations. I believe that tomorrow's business conference will give us new ideas. We have the same geographical position and the same approach when it comes to security issues. It is important that NATO takes a step forward and establishes a bolder defense policy. (...) Being on the Eastern Flank, it is important to coordinate our positions, as we do today, and to coordinate them in the B9 format, as happened last week, Eva-Maria Liimets said in a joint statement with Bogdan Aurescu .

The head of Estonian diplomacy stressed the need to adjust the position of deterrence and defence in the context of concerns over the situation in Ukraine.

We are in a very difficult time and that is why we must continue to adjust our position of deterrence and defence, and we must continue to see how we can best help Ukraine and put pressure on Russia to stop this unfortunate war because we see innocent people dying in an unjust war that has been started by Russia and that has been going on for over a month. Thousands of civilians have died and we have had the crimes in Bucha (...) and, of course, Russia must to be held accountable for these actions and, most importantly, for the international community to take a stand and call on the International Criminal Court to launch an investigation without delay, because the Russian forces must be held accountable for these actions and, of course, the was criminals must be brought to court, said Eva-Maria Liimets.

According to her, the talks also included the topic of what the international community should do in addition to putting pressure on Russia to stop this war and help Ukraine restore its sovereignty and territorial integrity.

We must continue to put even more pressure on Russia to stop this war. And from our point of view, we must accelerate the next package of sanctions at EU level and implement sanctions as strong as possible to stop the cashflow from Russia to no longer be able to fuel the war machine. We should also sanction the energy sector, there should be no limits to sanctions, because this brutal and unjustified war must end. We also proposed that Russia be held accountable for the destruction of Ukraine's civilian infrastructure. This means that Russia must take part in rebuilding Ukraine, and we must start immediately. We should use Russia's frozen assets for this reconstruction, and we should use part of the payments for Russia, for gas, to rebuild Ukraine. We suggested opening a separate account that would act as a fund and collect money for gas and thus recover the costs of rebuilding Ukraine. From our point of view, it is very important to use every legal opportunity to put pressure on Russia to stop the war and then to hold them accountable for this war, Liimets said.

She recalled that Estonia and Romania were at the forefront of supporting Ukraine, noting that the Estonian side had provided 230 million euros in military and humanitarian aid to Ukraine.

Of course we continue to see what we can do more together and I would like to congratulate Romania for receiving so many refugees and for taking the initiative to support Moldova in accepting refugees, Eva Maria Liimets said. AGERPRES (RO - author: Daniel Florea, editor: Florin Marin; EN - author: Bogdan Gabaroi, editor: Adina Panaitescu)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220404ei44002s1


OpEd
Guest post: Conclusions from the recent summits on Ukraine War and what’s at stake for Romania
2345 字
2022 年 4 月 5 日
Romania-insider.com
ROMINS
英文
Copyright 2022 Business Insider SRL - All rights reserved
Guest writer Andrei Buruiana analyzes the main economic themes brought up by the war in Ukraine and some potentially positive effects on Romania.

The world is now five weeks into the Ukraine war, Europe’s worse humanitarian crisis since World War Two. The past weeks have been very busy on the world stage, politically, diplomatically and economically. We have all been witnessing a succession of summits and political leaders on display: there was a NATO summit, a summit of the G7 countries, and a joint meeting of the European Council and the US.

On this occasion, we have also been watching a real “tour de force” from US President Joe Biden, who took centre stage in this series of meetings, by attending all of them. From a foreign policy perspective, it seems that he was right when, after winning the presidential election, he declared that "America is back!".

Beyond the positioning, or rather the reassertion of the geopolitical positioning of the Euro-Atlantic alliance, the reaffirmation of strategic, military and economic unity, there are some notable themes, certainly in the context of sanctioning Russia for its invasion of Ukraine. These would add up to the already visible effects I wrote about in previous articles, at the onset of the war.

The sanctions theme

A new sanction against Russia, more impactful than others, at least in the author's view, is the fact that, starting next year, 1/3 of the EU's gas imports (about 50 billion cubic meters) will no longer come from Russia, but from the US in the form of liquefied natural gas (LNG). This announcement should really start to have an effect on Russia, especially because 1/3 of its annual exported gas represents, based on 2021 figures, just under $20 billion, i.e. almost 5% of Russia's exports.

At the same time, the task of replacing 1/3 of EU gas imports is also an extremely ambitious target for both US producers and exporters and European importers, according to a recent New York Times analysis.

In the US, there are many oil and gas resources that are still in the licensing phase (as the US is already a net exporter), whilst there are not enough LNG terminals required by the increased export volume.

In the EU, there are also not enough LNG import terminals, especially in countries like Germany.

<wrapblock>

</wrapblock>

LNG import capacity in the EU, sources: Gas Infrastructure Europe, Kpler, Refinitiv

On the other hand, these gaps turn into opportunities: new business, investment and jobs. Direct as well as second-round effects. The biggest players in the LNG market are Cheniere Energy, Royal Dutch Shell and Total Energies.

Speaking of opportunities, Romania could step up and become a relevant player in the EU oil&gas market, given its outstanding offshore reserves, yet to be fully used.

There are positive signs coming from Romania, with the Black Sea Oil&Gas consortium due to start drilling this summer, whilst Romgaz, Romania’s biggest gas producer, continues its own projects, alongside OMV Petrom.

It remains to be seen where the remaining 2/3 of gas imports will come from. The fact that the EU will buy natural gas on a joint basis also sounds interesting. This should put pressure on gas prices in the medium to long term.

The (hidden) coal theme

A not so obvious topic, but one that I think is on the political agenda, is that of fossil fuel, namely coal. It is worth remembering that the war in Ukraine has caught the EU in a process of planned reduction of coal energy production.

Recently, however, some EU countries have decided to detach from the overall approach, especially those with a strong existing coal infrastructure: Germany and Poland. For example, the EU's coal-based energy component increased by 18% in 2021 compared to 2020.

Romania has also increased its coal energy share this winter.

So, an old dilemma rises back to the surface: the EU's carbon footprint reduction target.

<wrapblock>

</wrapblock>

EU energy structure 2021 vs. 2020, source: Rystad Energy

The theme of the Ukraine war-induced food crisis

The theme is, by all means, a real one, but perhaps slightly artificially exacerbated. Take wheat for example.

Maybe the fact that Russia and Ukraine combined make about 25% of global wheat exports sounds pretty alarming, and perhaps this might even mean there will be a food crisis. Before anything else, just as a convention, let us not confuse 1/4 of exports with 1/4 of total consumption.

Also, I don't think Russia's wheat production and exports will be affected this year, as it's not Russia that's being invaded, so it can grow its crops, plus, as another argument, Russia's exports go mostly to "friendly" (like China) or neutral (African) countries anyway, countries that won't impose sanctions. So Russian wheat will most likely circulate in the global market.

As for Ukraine's wheat export, assuming it will be zero this year, and since its wheat export is around 18 million tons (2020 level), I don't think the effect should be more than 2-3% within the global wheat production, estimated at 780 million tons in 2022.

Even if we were to assume that Russia would not export anything this year (37m tonnes in 2020), together with Ukraine’s crops, it would still be in the single-digit quota (around 7% of global production).

Sure, Ukraine produces and exports other food commodities as well, and markets will certainly be affected, but by no means as severely as hinted.

One element that I think would be more disruptive to the food markets is the supply chain, namely the delays and the costs of shipping, caused by expensive oil.

Here, once more, as in the case of natural gas, Romania could play a key role. Perhaps it’s Romanian agriculture’s moment to shine, from two perspectives: Romania could and should boost its crops this year, in order to fill in for Ukraine’s reduced production, whilst playing the middleman for whatever Ukraine decides to sell from its reserves.

So, with regard to food prices rising, they are rising more artificially and not so much because of the war in Ukraine. Eventually, supply would unequivocally meet demand and markets would stabilize.

The theme related to Poland

There have been many questions about President Biden's choice to visit Poland, on his European tour. There have also been some questions on whether President Biden should have come to Romania as well.

Beyond Poland’s proximity to Ukraine, the higher number of refugees it received and stationed, there are several other elements that could serve as arguments for such a visit:

- If we would make an analogy with the electoral contest in the US, but with two different sides this time, democracies vs. countries with illiberal tendencies, Poland could be seen as a "swing state". Let’s not forget that only a few years ago Poland was flirting with illiberalism and anti-EU doctrines, whereas it now seems to have turned westward again. The "swing" back to western democracy seems to be a foreign policy success, especially for the US. On the other hand, Romania has been able to contain its illiberal politicians all this time, therefore it is not a reason for concern.

- Poland is greater than Romania in just about every economic aspect. It negotiates with the big powers on a totally different level than Romania.

- Quite possibly, and I am only speculating here, a topic for discussion could also be the coal issue, as Poland has a large coal power capacity and, contrary to the EU trend, continues to generate a lot of energy from burning coal.

<rect filled="f" id="Rectangle_x0020_1" o:gfxdata="UEsDBBQABgAIAAAAIQC75UiUBQEAAB4CAAATAAAAW0NvbnRlbnRfVHlwZXNdLnhtbKSRvU7DMBSF dyTewfKKEqcMCKEmHfgZgaE8wMW+SSwc27JvS/v23KTJgkoXFsu+P+c7Ol5vDoMTe0zZBl/LVVlJ gV4HY31Xy4/tS3EvRSbwBlzwWMsjZrlprq/W22PELHjb51r2RPFBqax7HCCXIaLnThvSAMTP1KkI +gs6VLdVdad08ISeCho1ZLN+whZ2jsTzgcsnJwldluLxNDiyagkxOquB2Knae/OLUsyEkjenmdzb mG/YhlRnCWPnb8C898bRJGtQvEOiVxjYhtLOxs8AySiT4JuDystlVV4WPeM6tK3VaILeDZxIOSsu ti/jidNGNZ3/J08yC1dNv9v8AAAA//8DAFBLAwQUAAYACAAAACEArTA/8cEAAAAyAQAACwAAAF9y ZWxzLy5yZWxzhI/NCsIwEITvgu8Q9m7TehCRpr2I4FX0AdZk2wbbJGTj39ubi6AgeJtl2G9m6vYx jeJGka13CqqiBEFOe2Ndr+B03C3WIDihMzh6RwqexNA281l9oBFTfuLBBhaZ4ljBkFLYSMl6oAm5 8IFcdjofJ0z5jL0MqC/Yk1yW5UrGTwY0X0yxNwri3lQgjs+Qk/+zfddZTVuvrxO59CNCmoj3vCwj MfaUFOjRhrPHaN4Wv0VV5OYgm1p+LW1eAAAA//8DAFBLAwQUAAYACAAAACEAKviUod4CAAB4BgAA HwAAAGNsaXBib2FyZC9kcmF3aW5ncy9kcmF3aW5nMS54bWykVdtu2zAMfR+wfxD07tpOlYuNukWb xMOAbiua9QMUW4mFyZInKbcN+/dRstO46bCH1g8tJZFHh4ekcnWzrwXaMm24khmOLyKMmCxUyeU6 w0/f82CCkbFUllQoyTJ8YAbfXH/8cEXTtaZNxQsECNKkNMOVtU0ahqaoWE3NhWqYhLOV0jW1sNTr sNR0B8i1CAdRNApryiW+PkHNqKVoo/kboIQqfrBySuWWGoAURdrf6TiK4v3INJXbT7pZNA/aMS++ bh804mWGQTlJa5AIh91B5wbL8CxqfQLYr3Tt/NVqhfYe5eD+egy2t6iAzcuITCLAL+Cos9s7qm// iCqq+X/jgEx7KRg9IqZxNOT2dWbxMbNHVkArrAVD8XOSR3fT3EMJDJJqWoEPuzUNeENLQfBxS2u1 qxgtjdtuZQH9WgQv0QkMRF3uvqgS9KQbq3yXvF2q55Rp2mhjPzFVI2dkWANJD06398a2nI4uXg+V cyG82kK+2ADMdgeqBKHuzNXLt+/vJErmk/mEBGQwmgckms2C23xKglEej4ezy9l0Oov/uHtjkla8 LJl01xxHKSav+rTmhVZGrexFoeoQmoUX7DhOMExxdBomowQvHZyjZPR6ORUabanIcO6/TvmeW/iS hu9XyOUspXhAortBEuSjyTggORkGyTiaBFGc3CWjiCRklr9M6Z5L9v6U0C7DyXAw9FXqkT7LLfLf 69xoWnPLNBK8zjBMEXxt77pGnMvSl9ZSLlq7J4Wjf5ICyn0sNJimG3+7X/ixsfs7VR6cYEv4D82r FTQXjCw8rWBUSv/CaAcPZobNzw3VDCPxWcIcJDEh4Gb9ggzHA1jo/smyf0JlAVAZthi15tTCCkI2 jebrCm6KvUxS3cLQrHjX0C0nx04Yu7AHwXzWnjmT5QPV9BE4C5jbDDMZPC06HcEDkj0ltzFs0bhX oB2UNnsvBzievbk+tPuNcA97f339FwAA//8DAFBLAwQUAAYACAAAACEAkn2H4B0HAABJIAAAGgAA AGNsaXBib2FyZC90aGVtZS90aGVtZTEueG1s7FlLbxs3EL4X6H9Y7L2xZL1iI3JgyXLcxC9ESooc KYnaZcxdLkjKjm5FcuqlQIG06KEBeuuhKBqgARr00h9jwEGb/ogOuS9SouIHXCAobAHG7uw3w+HM 7Mzs8M7dZxH1jjEXhMVtv3qr4ns4HrExiYO2/2iw/dlt3xMSxWNEWYzb/gwL/+7Gp5/cQesjSpIh Q3w8CHGEPRAUi3XU9kMpk/WVFTECMhK3WIJjeDZhPEISbnmwMuboBBaI6MpqpdJciRCJ/Q2QKJWg HoV/sRSKMKK8r8RgL0YRrH4wmZAR1tjxUVUhxEx0KfeOEW37IHPMTgb4mfQ9ioSEB22/ov/8lY07 K2g9Y6JyCa/Bt63/Mr6MYXy0qtfkwbBYtF5v1JubhXwNoHIR12v1mr1mIU8D0GgEO011sWW2Vrv1 DGuA0kuH7K3WVq1q4Q35tQWdNxvqZ+E1KJVfX8Bvb3fBihZeg1J8YwHf6Kx1tmz5GpTimwv4VmVz q96y5GtQSEl8tICuNJq1br7bAjJhdMcJX2vUt1urmfASBdFQRJdaYsJiuSzWIvSU8W0AKCBFksSe nCV4gkYQk11EyZATb5cEIQRegmImgFxZrWxXavBf/er6SnsUrWNkcCu9QBOxQFL6eGLESSLb/n2Q 6huQs7dvT5+/OX3+++mLF6fPf83W1qIsvh0UBybf+5+++efVl97fv/34/uW36dLzeGHi3/3y1bs/ /vyQeNhxaYqz716/e/P67Puv//r5pUP6JkdDEz4gERbePj7xHrIINujQHw/55TgGISImx2YcCBQj tYpDfk+GFnp/hihy4DrYtuNjDqnGBbw3fWop3A/5VBKHxAdhZAH3GKMdxp1WeKDWMsw8mMaBe3E+ NXEPETp2rd1FseXl3jSBHEtcIrshttQ8pCiWKMAxlp56xo4wduzuCSGWXffIiDPBJtJ7QrwOIk6T DMjQiqaSaYdE4JeZS0Hwt2Wbvcdeh1HXrrfwsY2EdwNRh/IDTC0z3kNTiSKXyAGKqGnwXSRDl5L9 GR+ZuJ6Q4OkAU+b1xlgIF88Bh/0aTn8Aacbt9j06i2wkl+TIJXMXMWYit9hRN0RR4sL2SRya2M/F EYQo8g6ZdMH3mP2GqHvwA4qXuvsxwZa7z88GjyDDmiqVAaKeTLnDl/cws+K3P6MThF2pZpNHVord 5MQZHZ1pYIX2LsYUnaAxxt6jzx0adFhi2bxU+n4IWWUHuwLrPrJjVd3HWGBPNzeLeXKXCCtk+zhg S/TZm80lnhmKI8SXSd4Hr5s270Gpi1wBcEBHRyZwn0C/B/HiNMqBABlGcC+Vehgiq4Cpe+GO1xm3 /HeRdwzey6eWGhd4L4EHX5oHErvJ80HbDBC1FigDZoCgy3ClW2Cx3F+yqOKq2aZOvon90pZugO7I anoiEp/bAc31Po3/rveBDuPsh1eOl+16+h23YCtZXbLTWZZMdub6m2W4+a6my/iYfPxNzRaaxocY 6shixrrpaW56Gv9/39Mse59vOpll/cZNJ+NDh3HTyWTDlevpZMrmBfoaNfBIBz167BMtnfpMCKV9 OaN4V+jBj4DvmfE2EBWfnm7iYgqYhHCpyhwsYOECjjSPx5n8gsiwH6IEpkNVXwkJRCY6EF7CBAyN NNkpW+HpNNpj43TYWa2qwWZaWQWSJb3SKOgwqJIputkqB3iFeK1toAetuQKK9zJKGIvZStQcSrRy ojKSHuuC0RxK6J1dixZrDi1uK/G5qxa0ANUKr8AHtwef6W2/UQcWYIJ5HDTnY+Wn1NW5d7Uzr9PT y4xpRQA02HkElJ5eU7ou3Z7aXRpqF/C0pYQRbrYS2jK6wRMhfAZn0amoF1Hjsr5eK11qqadModeD 0CrVaN3+kBZX9TXwzecGGpuZgsbeSdtv1hoQMiOUtP0JDI3hMkogdoT65kI0gOOWkeTpC3+VzJJw IbeQCFOD66STZoOISMw9SqK2r7ZfuIHGOodo3aqrkBA+WuXWIK18bMqB020n48kEj6TpdoOiLJ3e QoZPc4XzqWa/Olhxsim4ux+OT7whnfKHCEKs0aoqA46JgLODamrNMYHDsCKRlfE3V5iytGueRukY SumIJiHKKoqZzFO4TuWFOvqusIFxl+0ZDGqYJCuEw0AVWNOoVjUtqkaqw9Kqez6TspyRNMuaaWUV VTXdWcxaIS8Dc7a8WpE3tMpNDDnNrPBp6p5PuWt5rpvrE4oqAQYv7OeouhcoCIZq5WKWakrjxTSs cnZGtWtHvsFzVLtIkTCyfjMXO2e3okY4lwPilSo/8M1HLZAmeV+pLe062N5DiTcMqm0fDpdhOPgM ruB42gfaqqKtKhpcwZkzlIv0oLjtZxc5BZ6nlAJTyym1HFPPKfWc0sgpjZzSzClN39MnqnCKrw5T fS8/MIUalh2wZr2Fffq/8S8AAAD//wMAUEsDBBQABgAIAAAAIQCcZkZBuwAAACQBAAAqAAAAY2xp cGJvYXJkL2RyYXdpbmdzL19yZWxzL2RyYXdpbmcxLnhtbC5yZWxzhI/NCsIwEITvgu8Q9m7SehCR Jr2I0KvUBwjJNi02PyRR7Nsb6EVB8LIws+w3s037sjN5YkyTdxxqWgFBp7yenOFw6y+7I5CUpdNy 9g45LJigFdtNc8VZ5nKUxikkUigucRhzDifGkhrRykR9QFc2g49W5iKjYUGquzTI9lV1YPGTAeKL STrNIXa6BtIvoST/Z/thmBSevXpYdPlHBMulFxagjAYzB0pXZ501LV2BiYZ9/SbeAAAA//8DAFBL AQItABQABgAIAAAAIQC75UiUBQEAAB4CAAATAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABbQ29udGVudF9UeXBl c10ueG1sUEsBAi0AFAAGAAgAAAAhAK0wP/HBAAAAMgEAAAsAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAANgEAAF9yZWxz Ly5yZWxzUEsBAi0AFAAGAAgAAAAhACr4lKHeAgAAeAYAAB8AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAIAIAAGNsaXBi b2FyZC9kcmF3aW5ncy9kcmF3aW5nMS54bWxQSwECLQAUAAYACAAAACEAkn2H4B0HAABJIAAAGgAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA7BQAAY2xpcGJvYXJkL3RoZW1lL3RoZW1lMS54bWxQSwECLQAUAAYACAAAACEA nGZGQbsAAAAkAQAAKgAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAACQDAAAY2xpcGJvYXJkL2RyYXdpbmdzL19yZWxzL2Ry YXdpbmcxLnhtbC5yZWxzUEsFBgAAAAAFAAUAZwEAAJMNAAAAAA== " stroked="f"> <lock aspectratio="t" v:ext="edit"> <wrap type="none"> <anchorlock> </anchorlock></wrap></lock></rect>

<wrapblock>

</wrapblock>EU coal consumption 2015-2020, source: Eurostat

Ukraine's reconstruction theme. Ukraine 2.0.

Although not a very obvious theme, as the war is not over yet, the topic is certainly on the political agenda. There is informal talk of some kind of a Marshall Plan for Ukraine, as the destruction caused by the war already amounts to around €500 billion, according to local Ukrainian sources.

The saying "every crisis is an opportunity" applies here as well, as rebuilding a big part of a country means many large infrastructure projects. The stakes here are and will be enormous. We are likely to see a lot of projects involving large companies in the fields of civil construction, infrastructure, as well as consultancy and services.

Given Romania’s proximity to Ukraine, local private companies acting in infrastructure, civil engineering and construction materials should keep their eyes open, going forward. And, again, Romanian political leadership must be involved in the reconstruction plan’s design and implementation.

Another possible positive outcome for Romania would be the fact that the pathway toward Ukraine crosses its Northeastern region (Moldova region), which also lacks proper infrastructure, whilst having a very low GDP/capita. So, on its way to help with Ukraine’s reconstruction, Romania could eventually finalize a highway linking its capital to Iasi (Romania’s most developed city in its N-E region), whilst getting regional companies involved, and thus benefiting regional development as well.

Needless to say, rebuilding Ukraine will and should be a European collaborative process, funded with both grants and financing.

The theme of refugees

The humanitarian aspect of the massive exodus from Ukraine has been a top priority, and for good reason. Everyone is currently focused on aid and accommodation, and that's perfectly normal. But what comes next?

It is estimated that the Ukrainian exodus could be as high as 5 million internationally displaced citizens. Their economic contribution, should they decide to settle in their countries of adoption, is not to be overlooked. Of course, developed countries are the preferred destination, but that doesn't mean countries like Romania should not try to convince them to stay.

Yes, you read that right. Romania should do everything in its power to adopt as many Ukrainians as possible. These people, properly integrated into the fabric of our society, would bring both economic and socio-cultural contributions. And, among them, there would be people who can bring with them intelligence and innovation.

On the Romanian labor market, there are already visible signs of Ukrainians joining Romanian companies, ranging from highly specialized ones like IT to more service-like ones in beauty care, leisure or retail. Perhaps, this brain drain pouring in from Ukraine could fuel Romania’s aspiration of becoming an IT hub in Eastern Europe and setting the stage for the next Romanian unicorn (with Ukrainian DNA) to arise.

Zooming in a bit, coincidentally, one of Romania’s IT cluster cities is Iasi, a city that is pretty close to the Ukraine-Romania border.

In conclusion, in terms of investment, I remain faithful to the effects I mentioned and anticipated in my previous articles on the economic aspects of the war in Ukraine.

Financial markets would further remain anchored in the war, hence volatile, but, very importantly, still under the larger shadow cast by global inflation and the measures taken by central banks to tackle it.

And, amid these times filled with uncertainty and volatility, the advice to "not keep all your eggs in one basket" is evermore relevant, especially as the eggs have become increasingly valuable.

by Andrei Buruiana, contributor

Click to view image[https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrei-buruian%C4%83/]

is a seasoned professional in financial services, with 15 years of experience, having covered:

* Investment & Pension Fund Management;

* Retail Banking: Wealth Management & Private Banking, Product Management and Business Planning;

* Project Finance: EU Funds;

* Training & Consulting (currently), covering: Personal Finance, Sales and Ledership.

Andrei is also a content creator and contributor on several Romanian business & economics platforms. He has a Bachelor’s degree in International Business & Economics, from the Bucharest University of Economic Studies.

(Opening photo source: Presidency.ro)

Click to view image[https://cdn.romania-insider.com/cdn/ff/KIu2mjaBDwjK8DeTftE5_X3VPuQJZU1V7mHRenO9svI/1649139853/public/2022-04/romanian_president_klaus_iohannis_meets_joe_biden_at_nato_summit_on_ukraine_war_presidency.ro_.jpeg]

Business Insider SRL

文件 ROMINS0020220405ei450002t


POLITICS
EU announces new more sanctions against Russia: Russian coal embargo, ban on ships in EU ports, sanctions on banks
375 字
2022 年 4 月 5 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
The European Union has adopted a fifth package of sanctions against Russia, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced on Tuesday. Sanctions include a ban on coal imports from the Russian Federation, additional sanctions on Russian banks, a ban on Russian and Russian-operated ships in EU ports, and additional bans on exports to the Russian Federation of essential components such as semiconductors.

“We all saw the gruesome pictures from Bucha and other areas from which Russian troops have recently left. These atrocities cannot and will not be left unanswered,” the president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said.

“The four packages of sanctions have hit hard and limited the Kremlin’s political and economic options. In view of events we need to increase our pressure further,” she said in a speech posted on Twitter.

On the proposed list of sanction, there are the EU ban on imports of coal from Russia worth EUR 4 billion per year, and a full transaction ban on four key Russian banks, including the country’s second-largest, VTB.

“We are working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports, and we are reflecting on some of the ideas presented by the member states, such as taxes or specific payment channels such as an escrow account,” von der Leyen argued.

The EU will also forbid Russian ships and Russian-operated vessels from entering EU ports, yet there would be exemptions for agricultural and food products, humanitarian aid and energy.

The European Union states will also ban Russian and Belarusian road transport operators and prohibit the sale to Russia of quantum computers, advanced semiconductors, sensitive machinery and transportation equipment worth EUR 10 billion annually.

Von der Leyen said the 27-nation bloc will also stop imports of Russian wood and cement as well as seafood and liquor worth in total some 5.5 billion euros annually.

It will exclude Russian companies from public procurement tenders in EU countries and add further individuals to a list of people whose assets in the EU will be frozen and who will not be allowed to enter the EU.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/von-der-leyen.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220405ei450008d


SOCIAL
War in Ukraine, day 42: Children’s hospital in Mykolaiv bombed. 400 locals reported missing in Hostomel
1669 字
2022 年 4 月 6 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
In the 42nd day of the war, the situation in Ukraine is escalating, with Russian troops launching a new offensive in the Donbas region, NATO says, despite having left the Kyiv region and northern Ukraine.

A children’s hospital in Nikolaev has been bombed by Russian troops. A projectile crashed into an ambulance and destroyed it. Another bombshell hit the playground in the hospital’s courtyard. The attack was caught on surveillance cameras, with footage being released by the Mykolaiv governor, Vitali Kim.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/Mykolaiv-hospital-225x300.jpg]

Vitaliy Kim, the head of the Mykolaiv Regional Military Administration, posted a video and a photo of a Russian shell hitting the children’s hospital. The video, posted on Kim’s Telegram channel, shows that the shells hit the hospital yard, where ambulances were parked, and a playground with a toy robot, Ukrinform reports.

Preliminary reports say that one child died and others are injured.

The Prosecutor General of Ukraine said that bomb shells were used, which are prohibited by international norms. The hospital was not the only target. In all, 12 people were killed in Mykolaiv and 41 were injured in one day’s bombing.

Hundreds of Hostomel residents are reported missing

After the massacres in Bucha and other localities, aout 400 residents of the Hostomel suburb of the capital, Kyiv, are reported missing after 35 days of Russian occupation, the head of the local military administration said on Wednesday, the DPA reported.

Taras Dumenko said authorities are currently inspecting basements in the area. The husband and son of a local doctor who were abducted 12 days ago have been reported missing, and the bodies of people known to have been killed cannot be found, he said.

Hostomel is located northwest of the capital Kyiv, near an airfield. The suburb has been hotly contested since the beginning of the Russian invasion on February 24. Most of its 16,000 inhabitants fled.

A few days ago, Ukrainian troops regained control of the Hostomel, Bucea and Irpin suburbs.

About 5,000 Russian war crimes are currently being investigated in Ukraine, Attorney General Iryna Venediktova said. “Prosecutors are conducting an investigation into a case of torture, murder and attempted arson of 6 civilians in Bucha. The criminal case is being started under Article 438 of the Criminal Code (Violations of the laws and customs of war) “, she wrote on Twitter.

??Around 5,000 Russian war crimes under investigation in Ukraine, Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said at a briefing in Bucha on April 5.

"Even in such a cruel situation, war crimes are first on the spectrum, followed by crimes against humanity and genocide,” she said.

— The Kyiv Independent (@KyivIndependent) April 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1511519063880708107?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Russians focused to take full control of Donetsk and Lugansk

The Russian army has focused its main efforts on an “aggressive” operation aimed at taking full control of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, the Ukrainian Armed Forces General Staff said in its daily update, according to the BBC.

According to the quoted source, there have been continuous attacks in the eastern areas of the country, but without success. Russian forces are also continuing their attacks on the port city of Mariupol, one of the most heavily bombed and damaged cities in Ukraine. Ukrainian troops have repulsed attacks on the city in more than 40 days of war. The Ukrainian military also states that Russia continues to actively use ammunition prohibited by international law.

According to British intelligence, the humanitarian situation is getting worse every day in Mariupol. “Most of the city’s 160,000 residents do not have electricity, communication lines, medicine, heat or drinking water. Russian troops have blocked humanitarian aid, and are likely to put pressure on Ukrainians to surrender, “the latest British update said.

The Ukrainian military has announced that eight Russian cruise missiles have been destroyed in a single day.

The Russian bombings destroyed the oil depot and set fire to a factory in the Dnipro region, according to the Kyiv Independent. The governor of the region Valentin Reznichenko stated on the Telegram platform that the intervention teams are trying to extinguish the fire from the factory. The number of victims has not yet been confirmed.

??Ukraine’s Air Force: Eight Russian cruise missiles destroyed in one day.

Ukraine’s Air Force said on April 5 that in an attempt to avoid Ukraine’s aerial defense zones, Russian forces have instead been launching missiles from Belarus.

— The Kyiv Independent (@KyivIndependent) April 6, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1511520342543671310?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

$100 Million in Additional U.S. Security Assistance for Ukraine

Pentagon announced the immediate drawdown of security assistance valued at up to $100 million to meet Ukraine’s urgent need for additional anti-armor systems. “This authorization is the sixth drawdown of arms, equipment, and supplies from Department of Defense inventories for Ukraine since August 2021. Combined with $300 million in assistance announced by the Department of Defense on April 1 under the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative, this additional drawdown brings the total U.S. security assistance commitment to Ukraine to more than $2.4 billion since the beginning of this Administration, and more than $1.7 billion since the beginning of Russia’s brutal assault against Ukraine began on February 24,” says a press release by the Pentagon.

Secretary of State, Antony Blinken also said that more than 30 countries have joined the U.S. to deliver security assistance to Ukraine since Russia’s invasion began. “Together, we are delivering security assistance every day, and we are expediting shipments of even more of the arms and defense equipment Ukraine is using to defend itself. As we strengthen Ukraine’s position on the battlefield and at the negotiating table, we will also work with our Allies and partners to gather information to document reported abuses and make it available to the appropriate bodies to hold those responsible to account.”

Further new sanctions

The United States are also expected on Wednesday to impose new sanctions on Russia in coordination with the European Union and the G7 on Wednesday, in particular to ban “any new investment” in the country, according to a source familiar with the matter.

The new sanctions “will impose significant costs on Russia and push it further down the path of economic, financial and technological isolation,” an official of the Biden administration stated, according to CNN. The new sanctions package will ban all new investment in Russia, increase sanctions on Russian financial institutions and state-owned enterprises, and sanction new Russian government officials and their families.

NATO foreign ministers meet in Brussels on Wednesday to discuss support for Ukraine

The summit will take place over two days, with new measures to support Ukraine in the next phase of the conflict, Reuters writes. Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said he expected Moscow to try to capture the entire Donbas region in order to create a corridor between Crimea and eastern Ukraine.

The chairman of the Joint Committee of Chiefs of Staff of the United States Army, General Mark Milley, said on Tuesday that the United States should send more troops to Eastern Europe to deter Russian aggression.

Army Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the basing could be funded by other countries such as Poland and the Baltics that want more U.S. troops. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said any effort to expand security in Eastern Europe is a “work in progress” that probably will be discussed at the NATO summit in June.

Milley was asked about the need to reallocate forces to Europe’s eastern flank, where NATO allies are worried that they may be Russia’s next target.

“My advice would be to create permanent bases but don’t permanently station (forces), so you get the effect of permanence by rotational forces cycling through permanent bases,” he said. “I believe that a lot of our European allies, especially those such as the Baltics or Poland and Romania, and elsewhere — they’re very, very willing to establish permanent bases. They’ll build them, they’ll pay for them.”

Boris Johnson address Russian citizens directly

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday addressed Russian citizens directly, telling them in a video that he deserves to know the truth about the atrocities committed in Ukraine after the Russian invasion.

Boris Johnson has warned Russian citizens not to be fooled by Vladimir Putin’s propaganda and to avoid state-imposed censorship by using VPNs to search the internet for war crimes committed by the Russian military in Ukraine. Johnson addressed the Russians in Russian, in a message posted on social media, urging them to “seek to see what crimes are being committed on their behalf.”

The British Prime Minister spoke of the horrific scenes of the Bucha Massacre – corpses left on the street or women raped in front of their children, images that terrified the world. Speaking in Russian, Johnson said that “the Russian people deserve to know the truth, they need to know the facts” – shocking, so outrageous that it is no wonder that your government is trying to hide them from you,” the British Prime Minister continued in English.

Putin’s adult daughters to be sanctioned?

As it announced new sanctions against Russia[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/politics/eu-announces-new-more-sanctions-against-russia-russian-coal-embargo-ban-on-ships-in-eu-ports-sanctions-on-banks/] on Tuesday, the European Union has also proposed the sanctioning of two daughters of President Vladimir Putin, according to diplomats familiar with the measure, writes the Wall Street Journal.

Vladimir Putin does not speak publicly about his family. He has two daughters with his ex-wife, Lyudmila Putina, a former flight attendant at Aeroflot. It is unknown at this time what he will do after leaving the post.

Putin – who has two adult daughters, Maria, 36, and Katerina, 35, from his first marriage to former flight attendant Liudmila Shkrebneva – has worked hard to keep his children out of the media and public eye. He rarely talks about children, keeping the confusion about their number.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/boms-Mykolaiv-hospitla.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220406ei4600002


Former Soviet Union Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - April 15, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 4 月 15 日, 14880 字, (英文)
Azerbaijan's gas deliveries via TAP reach 33 mcm per dayThe gas capacity of the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) could be increased to 12bn cubic metres (bcm) per year without the building of a new pipe, said Luca Schieppati, managing director...

Spain out of Rugby World Cup for using ineligible player
By TALES AZZONI
AP Sports Writer
465 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日 14:14 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
MADRID (AP) — Spain will not play at the 2023 Rugby World Cup in France because it used an ineligible player in qualifying, World Rugby and the Spanish rugby federation said Thursday.

The federation said World Rugby has decided to sanction Spain with a fine and the loss of five points for each match it played with South Africa-born front-rower Gavin van der Berg on the team.

Spain had qualified for its second Rugby World Cup — and first since 1999 — in March, but it will drop out of the qualifying places. Romania will take its place and Portugal will advance to the world repechage tournament in November.

The investigation was opened after a complaint by the Romanian rugby federation about Spain illegally fielding Van der Berg.

The Spanish federation said it was looking into the possibility that the player's passport was forged and opened a disciplinary procedure to investigate the case. It has 14 days to appeal the decision by World Rugby.

In addition to the loss of the 10 points for the two matches in which Van der Berg played, Spain said it would also be fined in 25,000 pounds ($31,100).

Van der Berg made his debut on Dec. 18 as Spain beat the Netherlands 52-7 in Amsterdam in the Rugby Europe Championship, which also doubled as World Cup qualifying. Van der Berg was a second-half replacement and scored a try. He was a second-half replacement again on Feb. 5 when the Netherlands was beaten 43-0 in Madrid.

Van der Berg arrived in Spain in 2018 and had to live in the country for three years to qualify on residency before his debut in December. But he reportedly returned to South Africa for four months in 2019, and went back there again during the coronavirus pandemic in 2020.

World Rugby said last month it convened an independent judicial committee to examine the possible breach by Spain, saying a formal independent review was warranted. It said the Spanish rugby federation had been fully cooperative throughout the initial enquiries.

It is the second straight Rugby World Cup qualifying that Spain has become embroiled in controversy. In 2018, Spain, Romania and Belgium were sanctioned for fielding ineligible players and Russia advanced to the 2019 World Cup in Japan.

The committee noted that the suspended sanction of 50,000 pounds ($62,100) related to the previous eligibility breach would now be payable.

In its only previous World Cup appearance in 1999, Spain was based in Scotland and lost all three of its pool games to Uruguay, South Africa and Scotland.

___

More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby[https://apnews.com/hub/rugby] and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports[https://twitter.com/AP_Sports]

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220428ei4s00lu7


CE Noticias Financieras English
Spain excluded from Rugby World Cup 2023 (World Rugby)
340 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Spain was excluded from the Rugby World Cup 2023 for fielding an ineligible player and will be replaced by Romania, World Rugby announced Thursday.

"Subject to Spain's right of appeal, the 10-point deduction applied to the Rugby World Cup 2023 qualifiers means that Romania will qualify as Europe 2 in Pool B replacing Spain," the statement said.

Portugal, the team Spain beat to secure their place in the international competition next year, replaces Romania in the Final Qualifying Tournament which will take place in November 2022.

"Spain has the right to appeal within 14 days of the complete letter with the committee's decision," the statement said.

In mid-March, Spain had qualified for the World Cup in France, twenty-three years after its last World Cup appearance.

The player Van den Berg, born in South Africa but playing in Spain since 2018, was fielded twice against the Netherlands (with victories for Spain by 43-0 in 2020 and 52-7 in 2021), during the Six Nations B Tournament, World Cup qualifier.

According to the Spanish press, the player would not have met the condition of being three continuous years in Spain without having been outside Spain for more than 60 days since his competitive debut in September 2018 to be eligible.

During that time, Van den Berg would have spent a long time in South Africa that would have exceeded what was allowed and, allegedly, he would have presented to the Spanish Federation a document with a modified customs stamp to comply with the legality, states the online edition of Marca.

"As this very harsh sanction comes as a result of an alleged falsification of the passport of the aforementioned player, the FER continues with the extraordinary disciplinary procedure initiated at the time," the FER assured.

In 2018, Spain, Romania and Belgium were already sanctioned for not complying with this regulation, allowing Russia to qualify for the Japan-2019 World Cup.

pi/gj/gr-dam/iga

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220428ei4s00alm


Spain to miss 2023 Rugby World Cup as points deducted over ineligible player
Michael Pavitt
484 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日
insidethegames.biz
INGAM
英文
© 2022. Dunsar Media Company Limited. All Rights Reserved
Spain have been disqualified from the 2023 Rugby World Cup after being deducted points over fielding an ineligible player in two matches.

An independent judicial committee appointed by World Rugby reached that verdict after being asked to study a claim by the Romanian Rugby Federation that prop Gavin Van den Berg was ineligible to play for Spain.

"The highest body in world rugby has decided to penalize Spain with £25,000 ($31,000/€29,500) and deduct five points for each of the two games in which this player was lined up,” a Spanish Rugby Federation (FER) statement read.

"While waiting for World Rugby to make the ruling official, this decision means disqualification from the 2023 World Cup in France, a competition for which the XV del León had qualified directly by finishing second in the Rugby Europe Championship 2021-2022.

"As this very harsh sanction occurs as a result of an alleged forgery of the aforementioned player's passport, the FER continues with the extraordinary disciplinary procedure initiated at the time and will shortly call a press conference to offer all the explanations that are required."

Spain had finished second in the Rugby Europe Championship, with unbeaten Georgia having won the event with 44 points.

The Spanish team had won six and lost four of their fixtures to finish with 29 points in the tournament, which doubled as a qualification event for the Rugby World Cup in France.

A 33-28 win over Portugal in March secured one of two automatic places at the World Cup.

Romania finished one point behind Spain on 28 points to secure a spot in the final qualification tournament, with Portugal third on 26.

#FERugby[https://twitter.com/hashtag/FERugby?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] | Comunicado oficial: World Rugby decide que Van den Berg no era elegible para jugar con España. https://t.co/QzYQ3yfhc4[https://t.co/QzYQ3yfhc4]

— España Rugby (@ferugby) April 28, 2022[https://twitter.com/ferugby/status/1519651783588687873?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

World Rugby has confirmed a 10-point deduction, so Spain drop to fourth in the six-team standings, ruling them out of competing at the Rugby World Cup.

Romania are in line for an automatic berth, with Portugal advancing to the final qualification event.

Spain had been hoping to compete at the Rugby World Cup for the first time since 1999.

This marks the second successive European qualification campaign to be impacted by sanctions over ineligible players.

Spain, Romania and Belgium were sanctioned for fielding ineligible players in qualification for the 2019 Rugby World Cup.

Spain were deducted 40 points after fielding ineligible players eight times, while Romania and Belgium were hit with 30-point deductions due to ineligible players representing them in six matches.

The sanctions led to Russia qualifying for the Rugby World Cup despite initially finishing third in the standings, while Germany played in the final qualifier but failed to secure a place at the tournament in Japan.

Dunsar Media Company Limited

文件 INGAM00020220428ei4s000gv


CE Noticias Financieras English
Rugby blow: Spain expelled from the World Cup 2023
569 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Spain was excluded Thursday from the Rugby World Cup 2023 for fielding an ineligible player, World Rugby announced in a statement. In this way, Romania was granted a direct ticket to the tournament, while Portugal will play in the Final Qualifying Tournament to be held in November 2022.

"Subject to Spain's right to appeal, the 10-point deduction applied to the Rugby World Cup 2023 qualifiers means that Romania will qualify as Europe 2 in Pool B replacing Spain," states the letter, which adds: "Spain has the right to appeal within 14 days of the full letter with the committee's decision."

In mid-March, the European team had qualified for the World Cup in France, 23 years after its last World Cup appearance. The player Gavin Van den Berg, born in South Africa but playing in Spain since 2018, was fielded twice against the Netherlands (with victories for Spain by 43-0 in 2020 and 52-7 in 2021), during the Six Nations B Tournament, qualifying for the competition.

According to the Spanish press, the player would not have met the condition of three continuous years in Spain without having been away for more than 60 days since his competitive debut in September 2018 to be eligible. During that time, Van den Berg would have spent a long time in South Africa that would have exceeded what was allowed and, allegedly, he would have presented to the Spanish Federation a document with a modified customs stamp to comply with the legality, says the online edition of the Marca newspaper.

"Since this very harsh sanction comes as a result of an alleged falsification of the passport of the aforementioned player, the Spanish Rugby Federation (FER) continues with the extraordinary disciplinary procedure initiated at the time," the FER assured.

In 2018 something similar had happened with Spain, Romania and Belgium for not complying with this regulation. In that entnces the great beneficiad was Russia, which was able to qualify for the World Cup in Japan 2019.

The full statement:

An Independent Judicial Committee, in considering a possible breach of Rule 8 (eligibility for a national team), found that Spain used an ineligible player during two Rugby World Cup 2023 qualification matches and imposed a 10-point deduction and a financial penalty.

In respect of the sanction, the Independent Committee, comprising Nigel Hampton QC (chairman), Pamela Woodman and Frank Hadden, imposed the following:

The deduction of five points for each of the two matches in which the ineligible player was fielded by the Spanish Federation (10 points in total).

World Rugby Rule 8 stipulates mandatory financial penalties for infringements of its regulations.

The Committee imposed a fixed penalty of £25,000 and noted that a suspended penalty of £50,000 relating to a previous eligibility infringement during Rugby World Cup 2019 qualification must be paid.

Subject to Spain's right of appeal, the 10-point deduction applied to the Rugby World Cup 2023 qualification table means Romania will qualify as Europe 2 in Pool B, replacing Spain, and Portugal will replace Romania in the Final Qualifying Tournament in November 2022.

Spain has the right to appeal within 14 days of the date of the Committee's full written decision.

Can Ecuador be left out of the World Cup? Pressure from Chile and the Truth Behind the Controversy

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220428ei4s00awb


CE Noticias Financieras English
South African Gavin Van den Berg's improper alignment leaves Spain out of Rugby World Cup
793 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Spanish rugby has thrown away a historic opportunity to grow and will not play the World Cup in France in 2023. The improper alignment of a South African player, Gavin Van den Berg, for two matches that the Spanish team won by more than 40 points has caused that World Rugby has decided this Thursday to annul those two victories and, therefore, Spain is out of the championship. The rules are merciless and the decision of the international federation snatches from Spain what it seemed to achieve last month: its first qualification for a World Cup after 24 years of absence. The decision means qualification for Romania, plus a play-off place for Portugal.

Spain had earned a direct berth to next year's World Cup in France by being the second-best team in the Six Nations B, the second European tournament, over the past two years. This process culminated with two meritorious victories in Madrid against Romania and Portugal. But the Romanians detected the anomaly that has helped them to win the place.

Van den Berg made his debut with Burgos on September 15, 2018. To be eligible for selection, the regulations require that 36 months pass from that moment without leaving the country for more than 60 days. The pilier would sign for Alcobendas in the season that led to the pandemic. In those months, the South African returned to his country due to his father's illness and the conclusion is that he exceeded the allowed period or that there is no valid proof that he returned on time. The document in question is a photocopy of his passport in which he accredits that his re-entry into the country took place without violating the stipulated time limit. According to federation sources, this document is not certified and the argument is that the player lost his passport.

World Rugby has restricted the eligibility criteria for foreign players to protect the future of training countries such as the Polynesian islands, which cannot compete in terms of resources with the major French or English leagues where their players play. The line-ups of the major European countries are full of foreigners, both from the major powers - New Zealanders or South Africans who are not among their country's elite - and from more modest countries such as Fiji or Samoa, a process boosted by globalization itself.

Thus, as of January 1, 2022, the requirement was raised to a 60-month residency thread or 10 cumulative years in the country of destination. Either by taking advantage of the previous, more lax regulations, or because the Federation saw no problems in the documentation received, Van den Berg was selected on December 12 and made his debut against the Netherlands on the 18th. The Consejo Superior de Deportes is in contact with the federation officials to clarify responsibilities.

In essence, this front-row forward represented another available asset for Spanish rugby. The formula in recent years has been to take advantage of foreign talent, both players who played in Spain and other selected players, mainly French, who played in their country, but were eligible by descent. And that the performance of the national team would serve as an incentive to continue expanding the bases, both in number and quality. A World Cup appearance was the holy grail.

The player himself and representatives of the Spanish Rugby Federation defended his case before the independent committee chaired by Christopher Quinlan. The argument is that there was no intentionality or malice in the choice of the player and that the problem comes from the documentation of Alcobendas, the club in which he plays. "This very harsh sanction comes as a result of an alleged falsification of the passport of the aforementioned player," says the federation in a statement, in which it reports that it will continue the proceedings initiated against the club, which could be relegated to the Second Division.

The drama is compounded by the fact that Spain has stumbled twice on the same stone. The national team also came close to qualifying for the 2019 World Cup, but lost in Brussels in the decisive match, a controversial match refereed by a referee from Romania, precisely the country that took advantage of that defeat to win, in principle, the place. The affair became mired in allegations of improper alignment that ended with Spain, Romania and Belgium disqualified and Russia, fourth-placed, in the World Cup. In the case of Spain, it was openside Mathieu Belie and wing Bastien Fuster who played for the French U-20 team in 2008 and were ineligible to play for another country.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220428ei4s00bl0


Sport
Spain kicked out of 2023 Rugby World Cup after alleged passport fraud
Gerard Meagher
503 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日 17:09 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
Spain illegally fielded South African-born Van den BergCountry will be replaced by Romania in pool B but could appeal

Spain have been kicked out of the 2023 Rugby World Cup and will be replaced by Romania after it was determined that Los Leones fielded an ineligible player, allegedly with the help of a forged passport, in qualifying. Spain had reached the World Cup for the first time since 1999 after a dramatic win over Portugal in March but have been docked 10 points and dumped out of next year’s tournament in France.

An independent disciplinary panel appointed by World Rugby found that the South Africa-born prop Gavin van den Berg appeared for Spain in two matches, against the Netherlands in 2021 and 2022, without having qualified on residency grounds. The panel ruled that Spain should be docked five points a match and fined £25,000, paving the way for Romania to reach the World Cup and Portugal to advance to November’s repechage qualification tournament.

It is the second consecutive World Cup cycle that has been dogged by problems over ineligible players with Spain also caught up in the controversy surrounding the 2019 tournament. Then, Romania, Spain and Belgium were all found guilty, leading to Russia reaching the World Cup. At the time Spain were given a £50,000 suspended fine which they are now liable for. Romania join South Africa, Ireland, Scotland and most likely Tonga in pool B at France 2023 with Portugal entering the four-team final qualification tournament.

Romania declared “justice is done” after learning of the decision while the Spanish federation, which has the right to appeal against the outcome, described the verdict as “very harsh” before admitting that it came “as a result of an alleged forgery of the aforementioned player’s passport”. It is believed that part of the issue centres around how Van den Berg split his time between Spain and South Africa, an issue made more complicated by travel restrictions due to the pandemic.

A statement from the Spanish federation said: “As this very harsh sanction occurs as a result of an alleged forgery of the aforementioned player’s passport, the Spanish Rugby Federation continues with the extraordinary disciplinary procedure initiated at the time.”

Meanwhile, in a double fitness boost for Eddie Jones before England’s summer tour of Australia, Courtney Lawes and Tom Curry – both of whom captained the side during the Six Nations – are set to return from injury this weekend. Lawes was described as “Frankenstein’s monster” by Northampton earlier this week because of the gruesome nature of his dislocated thumb but whereas it was feared he may not feature again this season, he comes straight into Saints’ starting lineup against Harlequins on Friday night. Curry sustained a hamstring injury in England’s defeat by Ireland in March but is set for a comeback off the bench in Sale’s clash with Newcastle.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220428ei4s002mn


SOCIAL
War in Ukraine: No ground attacks of the Russian invaders in the past day. EU prepares new sanctions on Russian oil
1306 字
2022 年 5 月 3 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
Russian forces have not carried out any confirmed ground attacks in Ukraine in the past 24 hours, according to an assessment by the Institute for the Study of War (ISW) published Monday night through Tuesday.

It is possible that the Ukrainian artillery strike on April 30 on the Russian command post in Izium will continue to disrupt Russian efforts on the Izium axis.

Russian troops on the Donetsk Lugansk front line and on the southern axis continued to regroup, probably to prepare for new offensives or to resist or reverse Ukrainian counteroffensives.

Such an assessment was made on Monday by a senior Pentagon official. He said on Monday that Russia’s offensive in the Donbas was “anemic” and “cumbersome” and slowed down by a risk-free approach, aimed at avoiding the heavy losses suffered by the invading troops in the first phase of the war.

According to ISW, the Russian military, although not carrying out any confirmed ground attack along any axis of advance, bombarded Ukrainian positions on the front line.

However, on the other hand the United States has “very credible information” that Russia will try to annex the separatist regions of eastern Ukraine in mid-May. According to them, there are also plans to create a “people’s republic” in Kherson, for a possible annexation to Russia as well. The Azovstal steelworks has been under constant fire since the beginning of Monday, with about 100 civilians still trapped, including women and the elderly, and about 20 children.

Meanwhile,British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will address the Ukrainian parliament on Tuesday by video conference, a premiere for a Western leader since the beginning of the Russian invasion, and will announce an additional military aid for Kyiv of 300 million pounds.

At the same time, the European Union is preparing new sanctions on Russia’s oil.

Further victims and injured among civilians

A 14-year-old boy and a 17-year-old girl were injured in a missile attack on a shelter in Odessa’s southern port, Ukrainian president Zelensky announced.

More than 200 civilians are still hiding with fighters in the Azovstal plant, Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko said on Tuesday. He said a total of about 100,000 civilians were still in the Russian-occupied city of southern Ukraine.

Captain Sviatoslav Palamar, a 39-year-old deputy commander of the Azov Regiment in Ukraine, told Reuters inside the Azovstal plant that the fighters could hear the voices of women, children and the elderly trapped underground and that they did not have the equipment to get them out of there.

The UN Bureau for Human Rights said that the death toll among civilians in the Ukraine war has exceeded 3,000 since February 24.

Russians remove Mariupol bodies in truck with “humanitarian aid” inscription

Russian forces use trucks carrying “humanitarian aid” to Mariupol, a strategic port on the Sea of ​​Azov – which it controls almost entirely, except for the Azovstal plant, the last stronghold of Ukrainian fighters – to evacuate the dead. Mostly following the Russian bombing and siege, Mariupol Mayor Petro Andrushchenko was quoted as saying by Ukrainian news agency LB.ua on Monday evening.

“No matter how barbaric it may sound, the bodies are being carried under humanitarian aid,” Andrushchenko said.

The same trucks carrying the “humanitarian aid” on their return are loaded with the bodies of the dead, Councilor Andrushchenko said on his Telegram account, adding that when several bodies are found in a building, the trucks stop in front of it, while the bodies are directly loaded and transported like any other cargo.

Moscow: About 1.1 million people have been brought to Russia since invasion started

Nearly 1.1 million people have been brought to Russia from war-torn areas of Ukraine since the start of its neighbor’s invasion of Moscow in February, the DPA reported on Tuesday. Among those brought to Russia are about 200,000 children, Russian military chief Mikhail Misinthev was quoted as saying by Interfax news agency. Only 11,500 people, including 1,850 children, were brought to Russia from Ukraine on Monday, he said.

While Russia describes the move as an evacuation operation to keep people safe from fighting on the ground and alleged violence by the Ukrainian leadership in Kyiv, Ukraine, on the other hand, considers the forced deportation of its citizens from the Russian-occupied territories to the east and south to be forced.

According to Kyiv authorities, the Russian military does not allow people to flee Ukrainian-controlled territory. Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council has accused Russia of abducting Ukrainian children and using them for propaganda purposes.

Russian weapons used in Ukraine would have British components, despite the 2014 embargo

The Ukrainian Armed Forces, which examined the Russian weapons systems recovered from the battlefield, found that they had recurring components made abroad, in some cases of British origin, a report by the Royal Institute of Services revealed. Unite (Royal United Services Institute – RUSI).

The problem is that the export of military components is under an embargo in 2014, as part of sanctions decided after Russia illegally annexed the Crimean peninsula. Following the report of RUSI – the oldest and most important defense and security think tank in the UK – London has decided to open an investigation, as there are concerns that Russia encourages smuggling of such components and uses third countries, The Guardian[https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2022/may/02/uk-inquiry-british-made-components-russian-weapons-ukraine] reports.

Zelensky: Russian leaders have forgotten all the lessons of WW II. Or maybe they never learnt them

Russian leaders forgot all the lessons of World War II or may have never learned them, was the reaction of President Volodymyr Zelensky to the controversial statements made by the Moscow Foreign Minister. “How could he say that on the eve of the victory over Nazism? These words mean that Russia’s top diplomat blames the Jewish people for Nazi crimes. No words. Such an anti-Semitic impulse by their minister means that Russia has forgotten all its lessons. from World War II or maybe he never learned those lessons,” said the President of Ukraine.

In an interview with an Italian television station, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Hitler had Jewish origins and that the biggest anti-Semites were the Jews themselves.

Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid reacted immediately. He said the Moscow official’s remarks were unforgivable and summoned the Russian ambassador to Tel Aviv to clarify the situation.

The European Union is preparing sanctions on Russia’s oil

The European Union intends to adopt the sixth round of sanctions against Russia at the next meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council (EAC), Josep Borrell, the head of European diplomacy, told Reuters. Josep Borrell told a news conference in Panama City, where he is on an official visit, that the EU hopes to reduce energy exports from Russia as part of its efforts to sanction Moscow for invading Ukraine.

The European Commission is expected to propose a package of sanctions this week, including a potential embargo on Russian oil purchases, a measure that would deprive Moscow of a large revenue stream that has so far divided member states.

Josep Borrell, who chairs the Foreign Affairs Council meetings, said he hoped the EU would be able to take “measures to significantly limit these imports”, but acknowledged that no agreement had yet been reached by all member states. “I am confident that, at least in terms of oil imports, this agreement will be possible until the next Council meeting,” he added.

The sixth package of EU sanctions against Russia will include the withdrawal of “other banks” from the Swift trading system, Josep Borrell added.

The Council has two meetings scheduled for May 10 and 16, respectively.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/separatist.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220503ei5300002


POLITICS
EC officially announces total ban on oil imports from Russia
480 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission President, has proposed today a phased oil embargo on Russia, as well as sanctions on its top bank and to ban Russian broadcasters from European airwaves, in retort to Moscow’s invasion in Ukraine, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/eu-lay-out-new-sanctions-russia-targeting-oil-imports-2022-05-04/?fbclid=IwAR0TjoOdOS_SUy244yenQNeRSTNBq8Uqh6_QDjcthM85EZ5ikDQm21GwGkw] reports.

If approved by EU governments, the plan will mark a turning point for the EU bloc, which is dependent on Russian energy and needs to find alternative sources.

“Today, we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe. Putin must pay a price, a high price, for his brutal aggression,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

“We are addressing our dependency on Russian oil. And let’s be clear, it will not be easy because some member states are strongly dependent on Russian oil, but we simply have to do it,” she added.

The draft sanctions provide for the phasing out of European procurement for a period of six to eight months, until the end of 2022, with an exemption for Hungary and Slovakia.

These two landlocked countries, which are totally dependent on deliveries through the Drujba pipeline, will be able to continue their purchases from Russia in 2023, a European official said. Russia exports two-thirds of its oil to the EU.

In 2021, Russia supplied 30% of crude oil and 15% of EU-purchased oil products, and the bill amounted to $ 80 billion, European Foreign Minister Josep Borrell said.

In addition to this progressive embargo, Member States are also examining immediate measures such as a tanker transport tax, according to the European official.

The new sanctions package also includes the exclusion of other Russian banks from the Swift interbank system and the inclusion of Russian regime propagandists and disinformation perpetrators on the EU’s blacklist of banned people. Seven Russian banks have already been excluded from the EU by Swift. Russia’s largest bank, Sberbank, which accounts for 37 percent of the market, will be among the banks to be excluded, according to several diplomatic sources.

EC also proposes sanctions against Russian Patriarch Kiril

The European Commission proposes to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kiril, in a sixth package of measures in response to the war in Ukraine, according to a document consulted by AFP on Wednesday.

The new list, which will have to be approved by the member states of the European Union, includes 58 personalities, including many Russian soldiers. Also on the list are the wife, daughter and a son of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, as well as the head of the Roskomnadzor Telecommunications Regulatory Agency, Andrei Lipov.

The sanctions consist of banning access to the European Union and freezing assets held in its territory. More than a thousand people are already on the European blacklist.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/von-der-leyen.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220504ei540002w


POLITICS
EC officially announces total ban on oil imports from Russia. Yet, at least four states are against
704 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission President, has proposed today a phased oil embargo on Russia, as well as sanctions on its top bank and to ban Russian broadcasters from European airwaves, in retort to Moscow’s invasion in Ukraine, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/eu-lay-out-new-sanctions-russia-targeting-oil-imports-2022-05-04/?fbclid=IwAR0TjoOdOS_SUy244yenQNeRSTNBq8Uqh6_QDjcthM85EZ5ikDQm21GwGkw] reports.

If approved by EU governments, the plan will mark a turning point for the EU bloc, which is dependent on Russian energy and needs to find alternative sources.

“Today, we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe. Putin must pay a price, a high price, for his brutal aggression,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

“We are addressing our dependency on Russian oil. And let’s be clear, it will not be easy because some member states are strongly dependent on Russian oil, but we simply have to do it,” she added.

However, EU officials failed to reach an agreement on an embargo on oil and oil products imported from Russia on Wednesday, with a new meeting scheduled for Thursday, according to Reuters sources.

Bulgaria, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia are among the countries that have objected. According to a European Commission document consulted by EFE, the European Commission has proposed exceptions for Hungary and Slovakia, so that they apply the embargo one year late to the other Member States.

Slovakia has demanded a three-year exemption period, while Hungary has said it does not support the European Commission’s proposal in its current form, as it would seriously affect its energy security. Hungary could only support the proposed measures if oil imported from Russia through pipelines is exempted from sanctions, said Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto. Bulgaria, for its part, has said it will ask the European Commission for exceptions to the Russian oil embargo. Bulgarian Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev said that technologically Bulgaria could do without Russian oil, but such an embargo would have the effect of significantly raising fuel prices. The Czech Republic has stated that, like Slovakia, it will ask for an exemption period of 2-3 years, during which time it will be able to increase its capacity to transport oil pipelines.

The draft sanctions provided for the phasing out of European procurement for a period of six to eight months, until the end of 2022, with an exemption for Hungary and Slovakia.

These two landlocked countries, which are totally dependent on deliveries through the Drujba pipeline, will be able to continue their purchases from Russia in 2023, a European official said. Russia exports two-thirds of its oil to the EU.

In 2021, Russia supplied 30% of crude oil and 15% of EU-purchased oil products, and the bill amounted to $ 80 billion, European Foreign Minister Josep Borrell said.

In addition to this progressive embargo, Member States are also examining immediate measures such as a tanker transport tax, according to the European official.

The new sanctions package also includes the exclusion of other Russian banks from the Swift interbank system and the inclusion of Russian regime propagandists and disinformation perpetrators on the EU’s blacklist of banned people. Seven Russian banks have already been excluded from the EU by Swift. Russia’s largest bank, Sberbank, which accounts for 37 percent of the market, will be among the banks to be excluded, according to several diplomatic sources.

EC also proposes sanctions against Russian Patriarch Kiril

The European Commission proposes to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kiril, in a sixth package of measures in response to the war in Ukraine, according to a document consulted by AFP on Wednesday.

The new list, which will have to be approved by the member states of the European Union, includes 58 personalities, including many Russian soldiers. Also on the list are the wife, daughter and a son of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, as well as the head of the Roskomnadzor Telecommunications Regulatory Agency, Andrei Lipov.

The sanctions consist of banning access to the European Union and freezing assets held in its territory. More than a thousand people are already on the European blacklist.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/von-der-leyen.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220504ei54000b6


Romania This Week - May 6, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 6 日, 9462 字, (英文)
Romanian lawmakers table Offshore Law for after May 11The draft revised Offshore Law has already been endorsed by the Legislative Council, interested parties may come up with amendments by May 11 and afterwards, it will be discussed in the ...

News; Domestic
Ukraine On Heightened Alert Ahead Of Russia's Victory Day; Fighting Rages At Mariupol Plant Amid New Rescue Efforts; Americans Reveal Why They're Fighting Alongside Ukrainians; Ex-Defense Secretary: Trump Wanted To Bomb Drug Labs In Mexico; CDC: Investigating 100+ Cases Of Severe, Unexplained Hepatitis In Kids. Aired 6-7p ET
Jake Tapper, Pamela Brown, Nick Paton Walsh, Matthew Chance, Oren Liebermann, Isa Soares, Kaitlan Collins, Brian Todd, Jonathan Martin, Alex Burn, Leana Wen
7317 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
CNN: The Situation Room
CNNTSR
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[18:00:00]

JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm going to be talking to Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Mississippi Governor Tate Reeves, his state, of course, is at the center of that Supreme Court draft opinion and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Geenfield, it's Sunday morning and 9:00 A.M. at noon.

Follow me on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and the TikTok @jaketapper. You can tweet the show @theleadcnn. Listen to our podcast.

Our coverage continues now with Pamela Brown, who's right next door in a place I like to call THE SITUATION ROOM.

PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now, breaking news, war-ravaged Ukraine is now on heightened alert. Officials are issuing new warnings that Russia may increase its attack on Monday and the Putin regime - it's annual Victory Day celebration.

Also breaking, fighting rages on in the besieged city of Mariupol amid new rescue efforts that freed at least 50 civilians. President Zelenskyy is calling the ongoing Russian blockade of the city a form of torture that's left innocent people starving.

Our correspondents are standing by in the war zone in Moscow and at the Pentagon, for CNN's live coverage of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

And welcome to our viewers in the United States and around the world. Wolf Blitzer is off today. I'm Pamela Brown, and you are in THE SITUATION ROOM.

This hour, there's growing anxiety in Ukraine that Kremlin forces are on the brink of unleashing a brutal new bombardment timed to coincide with Russia's Victory Day holiday.

Let's go right to Ukraine and CNN International Security Editor Nick Paton Walsh. Nick, the mayor of Kyiv just issued an urgent plea for residents of the capital city to be on alert.

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR: Absolutely. So imminent, they feel the potential for renewed intensity of missile strikes, that the mayor Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, is saying people should try and stay indoors, and certainly if they hear air raid sirens, pay special attention and seek covered.

Vitali Klitschko saying there is a concern that on the 8th and 9th of May, there may be escalation by Russia around or ahead of the Victory Day parades there, plenty (ph) of calling.

Still, though, now tension building as Russia continues to relentlessly bombard the steel plant in the besieged and essentially conquered city of Mariupol on the south coast.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WALSH (voice over): Escorted by armor, curtains closed, inside are said to be some of the latest civilians to evacuate the unbridled hell of Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol. Yet these are Russian troops escorting them out, not the United Nations who helped evacuate earlier in the week. Ukraine soldiers here Friday said one of theirs died and six were injured in an evacuation bid.

And while Ukraine set it began a new operation to get people out from under this, the savagery of Russian bombardments at the factory, the U.N. said Friday a total of 500 people had got out since their efforts began this weekend, many, many more desperate to flee.

Battered and uninhabitable as much of Mariupol is, still ahead of Monday's Victory Day, it appears the city's drama theater, it's basement is packed with children when it was bombed by Russia, killing hundreds, is now being cleared up, excavated.

These satellite images first on CNN showing rubble visible in April, gone in recent days. Vehicles lined up and the ground around the theater cleared to make it more presentable. It's not clear why they are tidying the scene of what many called a war crime.

The warped world of what Russia calls liberation was also on view here in these rare images filmed inside a filtration camp, where Ukrainians are held before being forced to go to Russia, passports taken, sleeping on the floor or in chairs, illness from the cold, all part of the experience of liberation, according to one woman whose father was there.

And this staged visit, evidence of Russia's rush to assimilate what it's clumsily torn off Ukraine. This is Kherson, the first city it captured, and the man in the beard is Denis Pushilin, separatist leader from Donetsk, and the visit suggesting Kherson on the Russian occupation where protests are crushed will also be declared a tin part people's republic soon. It all has the whiff of empire.

Here, he sits discussing transferring food from Kherson to Russia's separatist areas, watermelon and tomatoes. He might call it trade, Ukraine a food heist.

But Moscow is far from having its way and the costs are heavy.

[18:05:00] These images CNN has confirmed were filmed in a graveyard in Ryazan, the flags over the Russian paratroop division, the elite, and there are many just in this one city. These are the dead behind the propaganda with so much rubble in Russia's tiny victories.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WALSH (on camera): Now, Pamela, well, of course we are looking at incremental advances by Russia in territory here inside of Ukraine. There are concerns certainly that ahead of Monday's May the 9th victory parades, where Russia traditionally celebrates its victory over Nazis, curious that they would choose to revive that and the ludicrous notion of the ideology supporting their invasion of Ukraine, that there may be some bid by Russia to take extra territory or a final push in the days ahead, specifically also in the east, Severodonetsk, one of the towns there is concerned that maybe that might be the focus of a renewed Russian effort.

But still Ukraine pushing back on many occasions, but deep anxiety for the 72 hours ahead around that victory parade. Pamela?

BROWN: Understandably. Nick Paton Walsh, thank you.

And now let's over to Russia to Moscow, where the Kremlin is sharing new details about its plans for Victory Day, what we were just talking about. We want to remind you that Russia has strict new laws in place on the reporting of the Ukraine conflict, prohibiting the broadcast of information the government considers to be false.

Our Senior International Correspondent Matthew Chance joins us live from Moscow. Matthew, what is the Kremlin saying ahead of this key holiday?

MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, there's been some question, Pam, about whether the Victory Day commemorations here in Moscow and elsewhere in Russia might be overshadowed by the fact there is that really ugly military campaign underway across the border in Ukraine. Russia calls it special military operation.

The Kremlin has gone to some lengths today to insist that it won't by overshadowed, the commemorations won't to be have overshadowed by anything that takes place inside Ukraine. They're calling it a sacred holiday for millions of people, around -- not just Russia, but around the former Soviet Union, whose ancestors, whose relatives has let themselves actually engaged in the defeat of Nazi Germany in the 1940s.

But at the forefront of people's minds, there are going to be a lot of concerns about what's taking place in Ukraine, so it won't just be a sort of regular display of Russian military power and forces that it is every year. It's going to have that very potent, poignant backdrop.

Additionally, it may be an opportunity, and the Kremlin has pushed back on this, but it may be an opportunity for Vladimir Putin to make some sort of important pronouncement about his special military operation. There's speculation it could be an opportunity for him to make a formal declaration of war against Ukraine, speculation he could announce a mobilization of Russian forces that will enable him to get more people into the forces, into the military and to deploy them in more strength inside Ukraine. Again, that's been pushed back on by the Kremlin.

But, Pam, in the past the Kremlin has said it's going to do one thing and then does something entirely different. And so no one really is ruling anything out at this stage.

BROWN: Matthew Chance, thank you.

And tonight, we are learning more about U.S. assistance to the Ukraine military. Sources tell CNN that the United States shared intelligence that helped Ukraine sink a prized Russian warship in the Black Sea.

NN Pentagon Correspondent Oren Leibermann has more on that. Oren, this is clearly a sensitive issue for the Pentagon. What can you tell us?

OREN LEIBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: It very much is a sensitive issue, as has pretty much all of the intelligence sharing between the U.S. and Ukraine, this pipeline going back and forth between the two.

And it's not just the Pentagon, it's the entire Biden administration. They have been very careful when it comes to this issue, not only about the intelligence that's shared, but what's said about the intelligence that's shared.

Sources tell CNN, sources familiar with this situation, that back in mid-April, the Ukrainian thought they had the Moskva, they knew where it was in the Black Sea, but they couldn't do it on their own. They asked the U.S. for confirmation, according to these sources, and these sources says, yes, the U.S. confirmed that it wasn't fact the Moskva they were looking at.

It was then after that that the Ukraine took a shot at the flagship of Russia's Black Sea Fleet with two Neptune missiles, eventually sinking it as the Russians tried to tow it back to port.

The Pentagon has pushed back on any notion or suggestion that it was involved in a decision to strike the Moskva, or that it had provided what the Pentagon was calling the specific targeting information. Here's Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOHN KIRBY, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: We did not provide specific targeting information about the Moskva to the Ukrainians. We weren't involved in their decision to conduct that strike, and we certainly weren't involved in the actual execution of that strike.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

[18:10:05]

LEIBERMANN: The Pentagon went on to point out that there are other countries providing information and intelligence to the Ukrainian as well and that the Ukrainians have their own ability to gather intelligence. But that seems a way of trying to distance themselves from the story and the risk that come along with this being sort of openly stated by the media as the Russians perhaps are watching. Pamela?

BROWN: All right, Oren Lieberman, thank you very much.

And just ahead in THE SITUATION ROOM, is the U.S. bracing for Vladimir Putin to chart a new course for his war on Ukraine during next week's Victory Day celebration in Moscow? The State Department spokesperson, Ned Price, is standing by to join me, up next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:15:00]

BROWN: More now to the breaking news, a senior Ukrainian official saying tonight, that Russia wants to seize key city in the eastern Ukraine to declare a, quote, grand victory. This comes ahead of Monday's annual Russian celebration marking the Soviet victory over the Nazis in World War II.

And joining us now, State Department Spokesperson, Ned Price. Hi there, Ned. So, what is the U.S. bracing for in the coming days ahead of the Russia's Victory Day?

NED PRICE, STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON: Well, Pamela, we'll have to wait and see what the Russians have in mind but I can tell you what we have in mind. We will be working very closely, speaking with one voice together with our allies and partners, including our allies in Europe, in the G7, in NATO, about what is coming up. It is not only a holiday that is mark in Russian,

V.E. day, Victory in Europe day is something that we mark every year, together with our European partners. This is the day 77 years ago on Sunday when, together with our European partners, we stopped the forces of Nazism, the genocidal forces of totalitarianism and despotism that had swept across Europe, rolled it back.

Once again, we are working with our partners and allies to stop blatant aggression to end this violence and see to it that the brutality that the Russians are inflicting on the Ukrainian people comes to an end.

BROWN: I want to ask you about the latest information we're getting here at CNN. As we know, Ukraine successfully hit the Russian warship, the Moskva, last month, thanks to help from U.S. intelligence. How likely is it that Putin will retaliate against the U.S. directly for its role and intelligence sharing?

PRICE: Pam, we've watching very closely. We've heard a lot of bluster, a lot of propaganda, statements that constitute the hike of irresponsibility, especially coming from a nuclear power. But what we are most concerned about is what we see, not what we hear. And we are going to continue to execute to execute on the strategy we put forward principally because we know that it is a strategy that will allow Ukraine to win. It's a strategy that has two key components when it comes to Ukraine. It is continuing to provide our Ukrainian partners with the security assistance they need to defend themselves.

And just moments ago, we announced that the United States is providing an additional $150 million in security assistance to our Ukrainian partners. That's what we're doing to support Ukraine on the battlefield. We're also at the same time holding Russia to account. And to date, we've enacted together with dozens of countries across four continents a series of financial sanctions, a series of expert controls, precisely what we need to put pressure on Moscow.

So, we're doing two things at once. We're strengthening Ukraine's hand on the battlefield, we are strengthening Ukraine's hand in turn at the negotiating table and we're putting pressure on Moscow to change its approach, to change an approach that heretofore, at least, has not -- a country that has not been willing to engage in diplomacy, not been willing to engage in good-faith dialogue. And that's what we seek to facilitate.

BROWN: Let me just jump in there because you just laid out about what the U.S. is doing. And it's a tricky line to walk. Of course, you've had talked about the concern of escalation with Russia. You just pointed out it's a nuclear power. Where is the line about what the U.S. will and won't do and share with Ukraine, because, for example, if U.S. intelligence is being used by the Ukrainians to kill Russian soldiers and Russian generals, could Russia view the U.S. as a co- combatant?

PRICE: Pamela, we have provided our Ukrainian partner with precisely what they need at this moment. We provided them with billions of dollars in humanitarian support, and economic support, and, to-date, since the invasion, $3.8 billion in security assistance. That's we provided them in terms of funding.

Yes, we are also providing them with intelligence that they need to defend their country, to defend their territorial integrity, their freedom and their democracy. Everything that we're providing our Ukrainian partners in terms of security assistance, in terms of intelligence is to promote their efforts to defend their country against this aggression.

BROWN: I understand that, but is there concern that Russia could retaliate, could view the U.S. as a co-combatant with Ukraine?

PRICE: I think the Russians know that we have been very clear, than any effort to intimidate, to wage aggression against NATO, against any NATO ally would be met with a strong response. But we're going to continue to do what we have found to be effective and more importantly what our Ukrainian partners have found to be effective when it comes to this support for them.

If you take a step back and look at where we are, Vladimir Putin, on February 24th, thought that within 72 hours or so, he would be the de facto leader of Ukraine. He would be in charge a de facto of its government, ruling, controlling its people and the country. [18:20:00]

We are now more than 70 days into this conflict. Russia has lost the battle of Kyiv. Russia has been force to narrow its war aims, now rather than take the country, Russia has been forced to target much of its effort, much of it focus on a single steel plant, in a single city in the eastern part of Ukraine.

And so I think you see the effectiveness of this strategy every day. It is the grit, it is the determination, the tenacity of our Ukrainian partners, using the key enabling force of our security assistance.

BROWN: Yes, the Ukrainians have certainly showed so much perseverance and grit in the face of this. State Department Spokesperson Ned Price, thank you for joining us.

PRICE: Thanks, Pamela.

BROWN: And coming up at THE SITUATION ROOM, we're going to have an inside look at some of the foreign fighters, including Americans battling alongside the Ukrainians against Putin's invasion.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:25:00]

BROWN: We are following breaking news on a heightened state of alert in Ukraine. Tonight, officials are warning that attacks may be escalated attacks on Monday during its annual Victory Day celebration.

Now, let's turn to chilling new accounts of the war from foreigners who have been fighting alongside the Ukrainians, including two Americans. CNN's Isa Soares has our report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ISA SOARES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): For weeks now, these volunteer fighters have been developing a country that is not theirs.

DOC, VOLUNTEER FIGHTER IN UKRAINE: I saw on the news, just like everybody else, the atrocities that the Russians were committing. That's the reason why I came.

SOARES: The two Americans and a Canadian, who we prefer we identify them by their nicknames, tell me that from their experiences with one particular unit, the Ukrainian forces they have been fighting alongside on the frontlines are ill-equipped and cut-off from resources.

RAT, VOLUNTEER FIGHTER IN UKRAINE: Specifically, NATO munitions in terms of anti-tank weapons, as well as artillery, like howitzers, or tanks, or even like MRAP type vehicles, anything like that, it's nowhere on the front.

SOARES: Doc, Rat and Shadow said they have fought near Kyiv and in the east in the Kharkiv region, where Russian troops has strengthened their presence.

RAT: So, they would push here, send troops, massive column on the main road, push them here.

SOARES: This video filmed by them shows the challenging terrain.

RAT: It's just field as far as the eye can see with nothing but open ground and next to zero concealment.

SOARES: A battleground that without the right equipment can be deadly, the former Canadian Armed Forces sergeant tells me.

SHADOW, VOLUNTEER FIGHTER IN UKRAINE: It's a miracle, it's really miracle to be here still alive.

DOC: You basically have to be a tank or artillery or an aircraft right now to fight in the eastern part.

SOARES: So far, the U.S. has approved more than $3 billion in military assistance to Ukraine, including thousands of Javelin, Stinger missiles, and other critical weapons, equipment that these former U.S. marines say they haven't seen.

DOC: The stuff from these packages need to get to the front. They do.

SOARES: So much so, they are being teased about it.

RAT: We have guys coming up to us with Google translates, where are the howitzers? Where is Biden's help? Or where is NATO'S help?

SOARES: Last month, the Pentagon said military gear and equipment was getting to Ukraine, between 24 and 48 hours after it was shipped, but the U.S. was transferring it on Ukrainian hands and not dictating how fast they get it to the frontline or what unit gets them.

These fighters have just one glimpse of one frontline, but they're not alone in thinking that Ukraine's military remains desperately outgunned.

RAT: Both parties, it's one side has nothing and doing everything they can, and then the other side has everything and they're too afraid to do anything with that.

SOARES: Despite the challenges of the battlefield, Doc and Rat are returning to the frontline moved by Ukraine's fighting spirit.

DOC: The Ukrainians are giving it their all, and they're doing it every single day, every single minute, every single hour.

SOARES: Shadow, meanwhile, staying away from the front lines in Lviv after learning he's going to be a father, camaraderie and a common cause as they fight for freedom in a foreign land.

Isa Soares, CNN Lviv, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE) BROWN: And CNN reached out to the Ukrainian Defense Ministry for comment on these claims of the foreign fighters featured in the story, the military aid is not reaching the frontlines in the north east of Ukraine and why. But, so far, we haven't received a response.

And joining me now, the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, William Taylor. Hi, Ambassador.

So, there are disturbing signs that Russia is digging in the south of Ukraine, putting up Russian flags, restoring Soviet monuments. As someone who served as the ambassador to Ukraine, how do you expect Ukrainians to push back on that Russian grip?

WILLIAM TAYLOR, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE: Pam, we've seen the push back in several places. We've seen the military push back around Kyiv. We've seen the Ukrainians push to Russians back to the north, back to Belarus, back into the Russia.

In the northeast, where your report was just describing the fight, I've talked to -- I've got friends in the military, in the Ukrainian military, who are telling me -- told me as recently as three days ago, that those howitzer, those big howitzers, the 155 millimeter howitzers that are in the packages, coming from the United States, are on the frontlines and are already engaging Russians at long distances, exactly as they said is necessary.

[18:30:25]

And your point about the Russians trying to dig in and taking over places in the south, yes, that's what they have done. That's what they did in Donbas, in Donetsk and Luhansk. They put in puppets to govern. And then they forced Ukrainians to take passports, to switch passports into Russian. They forced the Ukrainians and use rubles. They use the Russian currency.

So, this is what they have done in Donbas. This is what they have done in Crimea. This is what they'll try to do in places like Kherson, which is just north of Crimea and just to the west of Donetsk.

So, that is the play book that they used. The Ukrainians are pushing back. The Ukrainians are not going to be able -- the Russians are not going to push Ukraine to do that without large forces, without military forces. And we know that they don't have those forces now.

BROWN: I want to talk about this video address that came out just recently from President Zelenskyy of Ukrainian. And he says, quote, they are working on diplomatic options to save Ukrainian troops in the besieged steel plant in Mariupol. He says influential mediators are involved. So, what would that look like?

TAYLOR: I hope it would be the United Nations. The United Nations and the Red Cross have had some success in getting civilians out of Mariupol, and they have negotiated ceasefires, or at least humanitarian corridors to allow these convoys to get these folks out. So, I'm hoping that the U.N. will continue to have that progress.

BROWN: All right. Former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine William Taylor, thank you.

TAYLOR: Thank you, Pam.

BROWN: And just ahead in THE SITUATION ROOM, the European Union is preparing new sanctions for Vladimir Putin's reputed girlfriend. Who is she? And why does Putin deny the relationships, despite being romantically linked for more than a decade?

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:35:00]

BROWN: More now on the breaking news tonight, President Biden just authorized a new $150 million aid package to Ukraine as it struggled to fight off Russia's unprovoked invasion. CNN Chief White House Correspondent Kaitlan Collins has the details.

So, Kaitlan, another big move from the White House, what do you learning?

KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Pam, this is the package that is to the tune of $150 million that President Biden is authorizing to go to Ukraine. This one includes artillery rounds, these counter artillery rounds, these counter artillery radar systems, jamming equipment, other spare parts that the Ukrainian forces fighting need. Of course, this is something that the White House will work to get to Ukraine quickly as they have been sending those other packages, the last two, $800 million packages that President announced, sending them very quickly

But, Pam, crucially what also comes alongside, the statement from President Biden authorizing this latest package, is he says that now with this announcement, they nearly exhausted the funding that they have from Congress, that authorization that they got of what they can send to Ukraine.

And so, in light of that, he is calling on Congress to quickly pass that $33 billion package that he's asked for. That's for mainly sending weapons to Ukraine but also humanitarian and economic assistance. So far, lawmakers have not made enough progress where they have been able to be prepared to send that, to pass that, to send it to the President Biden's desk, and he's asking them to move quickly to do so, so they can continue sending these weapons into Ukraine without any interruptions.

BROWN: And, of course, this comes as the first lady, Dr. Jill Biden, is in Eastern Europe and will be there through the weekend. What do we know about her plans there while she's there?

COLLINS: Yes. So far, she's gone to Romania. She's visiting with U.S. forces who are deployed there. You saw her today, of course, getting on her plane, going over there to make several of these stop. She visited with these forces, even brought them ketchup, which apparently was in short supply at the base that they were visiting, but really putting emphasis on the humanitarian aspect of this, which is not just the U.S. forces that have been sent there to reinforce NATO allies, she's also going to go to the border. She's going to go to Slovakia, as well the border with Ukraine, to visit with a lot of these displays Ukrainian refugees who have been force from their home.

Of course, the visit of this weekend is especially timely given it's Mother's Day on Sunday and that will be part of her visit as well, Pam.

BROWN: All right, CNN's Kaitlan Collins, thank you.

CNN has also learned that the longtime girlfriend of Vladimir Putin is on the list of sanction targets. What are you finding out?

And CNN has also learned that the woman widely believe to be Russian President Vladimir Putin long time girlfriend is named on the proposed list of European Union sanctions target.

CNN's Brian Todd is working the story for us. So, Brian, what are you finding out?

BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Pamela her name is Alina Kabaeva. And Vladimir Putin has been very secretive about her and their relationship as he has been about his entire family. But this woman, who's about 30 years younger than Putin, has benefited financially and politically from her association with him.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (voice over): She's been linked romantically to Vladimir Putin for more than a decade, though he has always denied it. An early photograph of them together at the time she was a decorated gymnast shows Putin looking infatuated with her.

Tonight the E.U. appears to set new sanctions on Alina Kabaeva, according to two European diplomatic sources.

LOUISE SHELLEY, TERRORISM, TRANSNATIONAL CRIME AND CORREPTION CENTER: This is very personal. She is not only part of his inner circle but she also probably holds a lot of money for Putin.

TODD: Kabaeva also, late last month, in a rare public appearance at a gymnastics event in Moscow, spoke out in support of Putin's war in Ukraine.

ALINA KABAEVA, FORMER OLYMPIC GYMNAST: Every family has a history of war and we shouldn't forget about it. We should hand it over from generation to generation.

BEN JUDAH, THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL: Alina Kabaeva has participated in a lot of propaganda state efforts to shore up the Putin regime over the years.

[18:40:03]

TODD: Kabaeva and Putin have rarely been seen in public together, but analyst say, she and her family have gotten rich because of her close ties to the Russian president. SHELLEY: She spends much of her time overseas, even though she has lavish properties in Russia to the tune of tens of millions of dollars.

TODD: Experts say targeting Putin's purported girlfriend for sanctions is a cold-eyed method of punishing the former KGB colonel for the Ukraine invasion.

JUDAH: One of the leaders to make him feel some of the costs of this is to sanction those closest to him and American officials believe that she is very close indeed.

TODD: Putin's two adult daughters from his first marriage were sanctioned by the U.S. last month. A U.S. official confirmed their names are Maria Putina, who also goes by the name Maria Vorontsova, and Katerina Thikhonova shown here speaking at an economic conference. Both are believed to be in their mid 30s.

CASEY MICHEL, KLEPTOCRACY INITIATIVE, THE HUDSON INSTITUTE: We know they have traveled widely, especially in the west. We know one of them, Katerina, was married to Russia's youngest billionaire, and we know that she also tried to pursue a career in acrobatic rock-and- roll.

The other one, Maria, we don't know quite as much about. We know she has pursued or at least purportedly pursued a career in medical sciences.

TODD: As for Alina Kabaeva, last month, The Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. official had debated whether to placed American sanctions on her, but held off out of concerns that so personal a strike at Putin would escalate tensions even more now that the E.U. could soon sanction Kabaeva and the U.S. has already sanctioned Putin's daughter.

SHELLEY: Putin might take this personally and strike out more at Ukraine and against the U.S.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (on camera): Analyst say there is also Putin's ex-wife, Lyudmila, the mother of Maria and Katerina, who also may have account where Putin is hiding his assets, one expert who tracks Putin's finances. So he does not believe that Lyudmila has been placed under any sanctions yet but he says that could be coming as the U.S. seeks to ratchet up the personal pressure on Vladimir Putin. Pamela?

BROWN: All right. Brian Todd, thanks for bringing us the latest there.

And coming up in THE SITUATION ROOM, stunning revelations from Donald Trump's former defense secretary who claims in a new book the former president wanted to launch missile at Mexico.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:46:44]

BROWN: A Georgia state judge says that far-right Republican Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene should not be disqualified from this month's primary over her role in the January 6th insurrection.

In an unprecedented hearing, lawyers for voters who challenged Greene's candidacy, tried to connect her rhetoric to the violent attack on the Capitol.

And we're also following startling new allegations about former President Trump.

Let's get more on that with CNN political analysts Jonathan Martin and Alex Burns. They are both national political correspondent for "The New York Times" and co-authors of the new book "This Will Not Pass: Trump, Biden and the Battle for America's Future."

Great to see you both. Congratulations on your book.

JONATHAN MARTIN, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: Thank you.

There you go.

BROWN: So many headlines out of it. We've going to dive into that.

But I have to ask about the other book from the former Trump Defense Secretary Mark Esper, this idea that Trump floated launching missile strikes into Mexico to take out drug labs.

MARTIN: Yes.

BROWN: Now, your book is full of stories detailing other wild ideas from Trump. I covered the Trump White House, and I remember hearing from officials they had to rein in his most outlandish instincts when it came to stuff.

Take me behind from all the reporting you did on this book on what that was like with officials trying to rein him and at every turn.

MARTIN: Yeah. I mean, it was not just his own staff, it was every level of government he was dealing with. We have a lot of material in the book from 2020 during the height of COVID when there are these governors across America who are desperately trying to get relief, literally a matter of life and death, trying to help people in their state. And they're calling the president, almost begging for help.

And the president is saying back to them, you have to show me some measure of appreciation and gratitude for me to help your state. That's the kind of operation that he had running. It was shocking to governors in both parties to find that trigger, but that was the nature of the Trump administration that we talk about in great length in the book.

BROWN: Yeah, just a transactional type nature.

MARTIN: That's right. ALEX BURNS, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: You know, one of the things that was also striking reporting in the book was the way people around President Trump who were somewhat less forthright than Secretary Esper who kind of rationalizing his wild behavior and trying to play down some of the really aberrational things he did as president, like his coercive behavior with governors. And like some of the, you know, to use technical terms, bonkers ideas, like sending missiles into Mexico.

There was a senior Trump administration official that we interviewed, we ran a particular Trump idea, pass this person, I won't get into that idea. The response we got is well, that idea never went through the inter agency process, as though that makes a difference whether the president of the United States is suggesting stuff, it's way out there in terms of mainstream political acceptance.

BROWN: You know, it's interesting because in covering the Trump White House, I got a lot of that, too. And they would either sometimes say you guys are making a big deal out of nothing, or they would say and rationalize it, this is how Trump's. This is why he so successful. He thinks outside the box, a lot of that.

And I'm wondering --

MARTIN: Or he was just kidding around.

BROWN: Or he was just kidding. That was another when you hear a lot of.

[18:50:01]

But it is pretty striking when Esper comes out and says bluntly quote, he should not be in a position of public service. I'm curious, in the course of your reporting, if you heard that same sentiment?

MARTIN: Oh, Sure. If you talk to a lot of people in the GOP, off the record, or not for attribution, they will be totally -- they don't want Donald Trump to be their standard bearer again. I think part of the reason why January 6th was consequential politically, at least in the short term, it is because the vast majority of the GOP lawmakers saw that is their opening. We can finally rid of this fellow. We can stop faking it.

This is one of the big storylines in our book. Divide between the leadership of the pub Republican Party and the voters. The leaders of the party have little regard for Trump. They have to put on this facade for the public, but in private and when he detailed this at great length in the book, they can't stand the fellow. The last thing they want is for him to run again for president.

BROWN: You know, it's interesting, because you do laid out really well in the book. I've heard from Republicans who don't like Trump. They say, well, if we stand up to him and we will lose and then you will have Marjorie Taylor Greene types, for example. You hear lot of that kind of rationalizing it.

But the audio that you released to back up all this excellent reporting you have in your book is really startling. Just with the Kevin McCarthy right after January 6th and comparing that what we are hearing now.

I also want to ask you when it comes to leading up to January 6th were all the election lies as we know, but also we're all the racial injustice. I know you touched on this in the book. Esper also confirms he floated the idea of shooting some of the protesters.

How close do the U.S. come to an even more violent crackdown on these demonstrators?

BURNS: Well, we are very fortunate as a country. The president never, to our knowledge, put to the test a direct order to the military to do something like that.

But one of the things that we uncovered in the reporting in our book was that the chairman of the joint chief of stacks, Mark Milley had told people at the time, told folks on the hill, including Democrats on the hill, I know that I don't have to follow an illegal order. That is a shocking thing for the nation's top general to be saying.

The implication of what he thinks of with the commander of chief couldn't be clearer.

MARTIN: And Trump when was really feeling the heat, our colleague Maggie Haberman, memorably reported, that he was brought to a bunker. He did this conference called with the nation's governor -- the governors couldn't believe this was the president of the United States. The governor of Maine, Gina Mills, turned to someone in her office said, the president of the United States is having a nervous breakdown.

So, it's an extraordinary scene. It's all there in the book.

BROWN: Yeah. Well, we will be reading it. If you haven't read it, check it out.

Jonathan Martin, Alex Burns, thank you.

MARTIN: Thank you.

BURNS: Thanks a lot.

BROWN: We will have more just ahead a wave of unexplained and severe hepatitis cases in young children has the CDC grasping for answers.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:57:26]

BROWN: There is more breaking news we're following tonight, the CDC now investigating more than one cases of severe hepatitis with children.

Let's dig deeper with CNN analyst, Dr. Leana Wen, an emergency room physician and former Baltimore health commissioner. Also a mother like I am.

This is so frightening. How concerning is this outbreak, and what would be the cause, Dr. Wen?

DR. LEANA WEN, CNN MEDICAL ANALYST: Well, it's something that we should keep an eye on. Right now the two elements are that it is so far unexplained, ease cases of hepatitis inflammation in the liver are already supposed to be very uncommon in children, right now we don't know the cause. It does not appear to be due to the hepatitis viruses, it is not due to medicines or toxins that causes unknown. And the other thing too is even though it's only effected relatively few children this far, just over 100 children that's known, it's caused very severe illness in these children. Most have had to be hospitalized, 15 have needed liver transplants and five children have died.

So parents should be on the lookout for symptoms like very high fever, prolong abdominal pain, very importantly, jaundice, yellowing of the skin, yellowing of the whites and the eyes. Light colored school -- stools, dark colored urine, if any of the symptoms, call your doctor right away.

BROWN: All right. I want to ask you, the FDA is importing -- imposing strict limits on who should get the J&J COVID vaccine. I know you had that and they're saying it's because of the rare but dangerous blood clotting condition, this rare side effect.

What do you make of this new warning?

WEN: We in the U.S. are fortunate. We have two other vaccines that are very safe and very effective, the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. So, the FDA simply saying choose those two other vaccines first. If you can't get one of these other vaccines first for some reason, you could still get the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.

Very importantly, if you've got the J&J vaccine already, don't worry. I got the change a vaccine over your go and you are not to have long term side effects from that. The side effects of this is very rare, but again, serious side effects of blood clots disorder is only seen in the first to three weeks so that's when you should be worried but not after.

BROWN: All right. Dr. Leana Wen, thank you so much joining us.

WEN: Thank you.

BROWN: And we are following breaking news out of Cuba where a massive explosion at a prominent hotel in Havana has killed at least nine people and injured dozens. Officials say a gas leak is believed to be the cost of the blast. It destroyed the historic hotel there, Saratoga, as well as buses and cars outside.

A CNN team there saw rescuers using their bare hands to reach people trapped in the rubble.

Thank you very much for watching, I'm Pamela Brown. Join me tomorrow for CNN newsroom starting at 6:00 p.m. Eastern.

"ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT" starts right now.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNTSR0020220507ei5600001


SOCIAL
Russians hit Odessa with Kinjal hypersonic missiles. Bodies 44 civilians found under bombed-out building in Izium
1601 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
Attacks by Russian troops were focused in eastern Ukraine overnight, with numerous explosions being reported in the Lugansk region, where fighting for control of two localities is taking place. Ukrainian troops withdrew from Popansa, which is now under Russian control. In the Donetsk region, the mayor of Sloviansk announced that the city center had been bombed.

Shootings also continued in Nikolaev, one of the cities targeted since the early days of the war. A spokesman for the Pentagon said in Washington that the United States had signs that Ukrainians had been forcibly taken to Russia.

The Kyiv government is talking about more than a million people who have been deported and imprisoned in camps. “I don’t know how many camps there are or what they look like. But we have information that Ukrainians are being sent against their will to Russia,” the US official said.

Odessa, hit by Russian missiles

A person was killed and other five injured following the missile attack on Odessa, the Ukrainian Army reports.

?The consequences of the shelling of Odessa city

As a result of the missile attack on #Odessa[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Odessa?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] city, 1 person was killed, 5 more were injured.

With one hand, #Putin[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Putin?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] laid flowers on the hero city of Odessa, with the other hand, he fired deadly missiles there. pic.twitter.com/OjX2qQMTR3[https://t.co/OjX2qQMTR3]

— Ukraine – War – Police – SID (@Ukraine_SID) May 10, 2022[https://twitter.com/Ukraine_SID/status/1523942123527151617?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Three Kinjal missiles – Russia’s new hypersonic missiles – were shot down from a plane and hit “a tourist infrastructure target”, said Sergei Bratchuk, a spokesman for the Odessa regional military administration, quoted by CNN.

Bratchuk did not identify the target of the attacks, but CNN verified the authenticity of two videos shared on social media, which show significant damage to a hotel in Zatoka.

This is the second hotel in the Odessa region to be bombed on Monday. One of the videos was first posted by Odessa City Council. It is unclear why the two hotels were the target of the attacks or who was staying in them. A shopping center was also hit by seven missiles, according to the Southern Operational Command of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.

Zelensky asks for help to resume trade: No port operates in Odessa

Trade in Ukrainian ports is blocked, said President Volodymyr Zelensky, who called on the international community to take immediate action to resume wheat shipments and prevent a global food crisis, Reuters reports.

Volodymyr Zelensky made the remarks after speaking with European Council President Charles Michel, who was visiting Odessa – the main port on the Black Sea for agricultural exports, where missiles hit tourist sites and destroyed several buildings on Monday.

“No port is operating in Odessa. This probably never happened in Odessa after World War II,” he said, noting that normal maritime life is blocked by Russia, and this affects not only Ukraine.

“Without our agricultural exports, dozens of countries around the world are already on the brink of food shortages. And over time, that can be a daunting task. Politicians are already discussing the possible consequences of the price crisis and the famine in Africa and Asia. This is a direct consequence of Russian aggression, which can only be overcome together – by all Europeans, by the whole free world. It can be overcome by putting pressure on Russia, effectively forcing Russia to stop this shameful war,” Volodymyr Zelensky added.

44 bodies found under the ruins of a bombed-out building in Izium

The bodies of 44 civilians were found in the rubble of a building in Izium, bombed by Russia in March, a Ukrainian official said. On the other hand, at least 100 civilians are still trapped inside the Azovstal steel plant, which is still being bombed by the Russians. An adviser to the mayor of Mariupol said that at least 100 civilians are still there, in addition to the soldiers fighting, writes SkyNews. Ukraine’s defense minister says Russian troops are carrying out “assault operations”, attacking with tanks and artillery.

Ragged Ukrainian flag resists over Azovstal plant

A ragged Ukrainian flag still flutters over the Azovstal steelworks, where the last defenders of the port city of Mariupol have retreated and taken refuge, reports The Guardian. A short video distributed by the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense shows on the 75th day of the conflict an image that seems to be symbolic for the whole country under siege, a flag in the colors of Ukraine still stands hoisted at the factory, although torn . “Damaged, but persists,” said Politico journalist Christopher Miller. “A Victorian flag is not somewhere in a foreign capital. It flies over its own land, “the Ukrainian Defense Ministry wrote in the short images.

A Ukrainian flag flies over Azovstal. A Ukrainian flag over Mariupol. On the 75th day of the defence. The true Flag of Victory is not somewhere in a foreign capital. It flies over its own land. #UAarmy[https://twitter.com/hashtag/UAarmy?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/ZjsF7qEuTm[https://t.co/ZjsF7qEuTm]

— Defence of Ukraine (@DefenceU) May 9, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceU/status/1523732519203471360?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

British Defense Ministry: Russia’s invasion plan based on wrong assumption

In Tuesday morning’s analysis of the war, the British Ministry of Defense points out that Russia’s underestimation of Ukrainian resistance and poor planning of the “best scenario” have led to demonstrable operational failures, preventing Vladimir Putin from announcing success. significant military in Ukraine at the Victory Day parade on May 9.

The British say that it is very likely that Russia’s invasion plan was based on the wrong assumption that it would meet with limited resistance and be able to encircle and bypass the urban population centers at a rapid pace. London says that this assumption led the Russian forces to try to carry out the opening phase of the operation with an easy, precise approach, meant to achieve a quick victory with minimal costs. This miscalculation has led to unsustainable losses and a subsequent reduction in Russia’s operational concentration, according to the British Ministry of Defense.

Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine – 10 May 2022

Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/l07FXELmoB[https://t.co/l07FXELmoB]

?? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ?? pic.twitter.com/1c0D5OtBGX[https://t.co/1c0D5OtBGX]

— Ministry of Defence ?? (@DefenceHQ) May 10, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1523896628578598912?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

The United States will provide additional $ 40 billion in aid to Ukraine

Democrats in the US Congress have agreed to provide an additional $ 39.8 billion in aid to Ukraine, Reuters reports, citing sources close to the talks. On April 28, Joe Biden asked Congress for $ 33 billion to support Ukraine, including more than $ 20 billion in military assistance. The new proposal includes an additional $ 3.4 billion in military aid and $ 3.4 billion in humanitarian aid, sources said.

On Monday, President Joe Biden called on Congress to pass Ukraine’s aid law “immediately”, warning for the first time that existing aid would run out in “about ten days”. Democrats and Republicans have said they support more aid for Ukraine and will quickly approve emergency funding, but it has been delayed by disputes between the parties over whether additional funding should be included to improve Covid-19 or stricter controls on immigration.

German FM visits Bucha

German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock arrived in Ukraine on Tuesday, the most important German official to visit the country since the Russian invasion began on February 24, Reuters and AFP reported. She. visited Bucha, , one of the places where Russians committed war crimes.

? #ÚltimaHora[https://twitter.com/hashtag/%C3%9AltimaHora?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] : La ministra ?? de Exteriores, @ABaerbock[https://twitter.com/ABaerbock?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw], está ya en Kiev

????? Durante su visita a Bucha ha estado acompañada por la fiscal general de Ucrania, Iryna Wenediktowa

?? Tiene también previsto reunirse con su homólogo ucraniano, Dmytro Kuleba pic.twitter.com/6O0kqZFy2B[https://t.co/6O0kqZFy2B]

— Embajador de Alemania en Madrid (@AlemaniaDiplo) May 10, 2022[https://twitter.com/AlemaniaDiplo/status/1523959821409652738?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Charles Michel talks to Ukrainian PM in anti-aircraft shelter

The moment that European Council President Charles Michel, who was visiting Odessa on Monday, is taking refuge in an anti-aircraft shelter as Russians launch new attacks was captured on cameras.During a meeting with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal, “participants had to interrupt the meeting to take shelter while the missiles hit the region again.” The image of the two talking in the shelter was published by the Prime Minister of Ukraine on twitter.

Official part of our meeting with @eucopresident[https://twitter.com/eucopresident?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] was interrupted today by air raid alert & missiles fired by aggressor near #Odesa[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Odesa?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]. Used every minute in the bomb shelter to tackle joint actions: how to stop russia & rebuild #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]. Grateful for the visit of a true ??'s friend pic.twitter.com/F1B0cIIrLY[https://t.co/F1B0cIIrLY]

— Denys Shmyhal (@Denys_Shmyhal) May 9, 2022[https://twitter.com/Denys_Shmyhal/status/1523700067391000577?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Ursula von der Leyen announces “progress” after dinner with Viktor Orban discussing EU embargo on Russian oil

Both European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said that after Monday’s meeting between EU official and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, progress had been made on imposing the European embargo on imports. However, the head of diplomacy in Budapest reiterated the idea that banning Russian oil “in its current form” would mean “launching an atomic bomb on the Hungarian economy”. Budapest has so far blocked the embargo on the grounds that such a sanction against Moscow would affect Hungary’s energy security.

This evening’s discussion with PM Viktor Orban was helpful to clarify issues related to sanctions and energy security.

We made progress, but further work is needed. I will convene a VC with regional players to strengthen regional cooperation on oil infrastructure.

— Ursula von der Leyen (@vonderleyen) May 9, 2022[https://twitter.com/vonderleyen/status/1523725927834075136?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/odessa-missile-e1652176076416.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220510ei5a0002u


CE Noticias Financieras English
Niemann triunfa and Malmoes
725 字
2022 年 5 月 11 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
American grandmaster Hans Moke Niemman's third round win over young Indian Arjun Erigaisi was decisive in his overall victory in the Te-Pe Sigeman International Tournament held in Malmoe, Sweden. He was crowned with 5 points, one more than Erigaisi, who placed second, tied on 4 real points with Sweden's Nils Grandelius and England's Michael Adams.

Final standings: 1st H. Niemann, (2.656) United States, 5; 2nd A. Erigaisi, (2.675), India, 4; 3rd N. Grandelius, (2.635) Sweden, 4; 4th M. Adams, (2.698) United Kingdom, 4; 5th. D. Navara, (2,682) Czech Republic, 3 ½; 6th. J. Van Foreest (2,715) Netherlands, 3; 7th. S. Salem, ( 2,690) United Arab Emirates, 2 ½; 8th. A. Shirov (2,695) Spain, 2 points. Shirov lost 16 points and Van Foreest 9 in his personal Elo. Nieman had a performance of 2,842 which raises his elo from 2,656 by +17.8 points. He concluded with (+3,=4,-0). And in chronological order his performance was as follows: =Adams, =Navara, +Erigaisi, +Salen, +Shirov, =Grandelius and =Van Foreest. The competition was held from May 3 to 9 under the classic 90-30 rhythm with 30" added.

Karjakin's appeal rejected. The Appeals Chamber of the Ethics and Disciplinary Commission of FIDE, rejected last May 6 the appeal presented by Sergei Karjakin, after being suspended for six months, for his pronouncement in favor of the Russian military action in Ukraine. The sanction makes it impossible for Karjakin to compete in the Candidates Tournament to be held at the end of July and beginning of August in Madrid. It would remain for him to go in the next 15 days to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) presided by John D. Coates, Australia and Michael Lenard, United States. It can be considered that FIDE should be attentive to the proceedings of Karjakin. And if he does not appeal to CAS surely the eighth name in the Candidates Tournament could be released on May 27.

Wesley So dominates the Bucharest Superbet. American Wesley So is the solo leader after the fifth round of the Grand Chess Tour Superbet being held in Bucharest, Romania. He carries 3 ½ points, in a very discrete competition for the four masters who are going to compete in the Candidates Tournament.

Ranking to R-5: 1, W. So, USA 3 ½ ; 2. L. Aronian, USA, 3; 3rd. M. Vachier-Lagrave, France, 3; 5th. B. Deac, Romania, 3. 5th I. Nepomniachtchi, Russia, 2 ½; 6th. F. Caruana, USA, 2 ½; 7th. F. Caruana, France, 2; 8th. L. Dominguez, USA, 2. 9th R. Rapport, Hungary, 2; 10th. S. Mamedyarov, Azerbaijan, 1 ½ points.

White: Fabiano Caruana, USA, 2,786.

Black: Shakhriyar Mamedyarov, Azerbaijan, 2,759.

Petrof Defense, C42. R-5, SuperBet Classic, Bucharest, Romania, 09-05-2022. 1.e4 e5 2.Nf3 Nf6 3.Nxe5 d6 4.Nf3 Nxe4 5.d4 d5 6.Bd3 Ae7 7.0-0 Bf5 8.Te1 0-0 9.Nbd2 Nd6 10.Nf1 Axd3 11.Dxd3 c6 12.Bf4 Ca6 13.h4 Nc7 14.Ng5 g6 15.Ch2 Dd7 16.h5 Axg5 17.Axg5 Tfe8 18.hxg6 hxg6 19.Bf6 Txe1+ 20.Txe1 Te8 21.Tf1 Ca6 22.Ae5 De6 23.f4 Nb8 24.Da3 Ce4 25.f5 gxf5 26.Dh3 f6 27.Txf5 Nd7 28.Bf4 Rf8 29.Da3+ Rg7 30.Th5 a6 31.Db3 b6 32.Df3 Th8 33.Txh8 Rxh8 34.Dh5+ Rg8 35.Dg6+ Rf8 36.Cg4 Re7 37.Ch6 Rd8 38.Nf7+ Re7 39.Ch6 Rd8 40.Cf5 Rc8 41.Dg4 Rd8 42.Dh3 De8 43.Dh7 Cg5 44.Axg5 fxg5 45.Dg7 De1+ 46.Rh2 Dd2 47.De7+ Rc7 48.Dd6+ Rd8 49.Ce7 Dxc2 50.Cxc6+ Rc8 51.Ce7+ Rd8 52.Cc6+ Rc8 53.Ce7+ Rd8 54.Cxd5 Dh7+ 55.Rg1 Db1+ 56.Rh2 Dh7+ 57.Rg1 Db1+ 58.Rf2 Dc2+ 59.Re3 Dc1+ 60.Rd3 Rc8 61.De6 Df1+ 62.Rc3 Dc1+ 63.Rb3 Dd1+ 64.Ra3 Dd3+ 65.b3 Db5 66.Rb2 1-0.t

Copyright law strictly prohibits copying Excélsior materials in whole or in part without prior written permission and without including a link to the original text.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220511ei5b004yk


Energo Monitor This Week - May 13, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 13 日, 6503 字, (英文)
EBRD allocates $51mn for SPP in AzerbaijanThe European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) has approved a $51mn loan for the construction and operation of the Garadagh Solar Power Plant (SPP) in Azerbaijan. The groundbreaking ...

news
The Bosphorus ship-spotter hunting Russian sanction-busters
Louise Callaghan, Istanbul
1521 字
2022 年 5 月 21 日 23:01 GMT
sundaytimes.co.uk
SUNDTI
英文
© Times Newspapers Limited 2022
Squinting into the salt-tinged breeze, Yoruk Isik looked out over the Bosphorus from the passenger deck of an Istanbul ferry. Each day, the veteran ship-spotter obsessively tracks the vessels that pass through this narrow waterway, carrying iron ore from South America, vehicle parts from Romania, oil from the Black Sea port of Novorossiysk.

Since the war in Ukraine began, however, his observations have taken a different turn.

These straits, where the warships of Alexander the Great and Suleiman the Magnificent once sailed to battle, have now become a vital artery for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Despite western sanctions and arms embargoes, Moscow is continuing to trade and resupply through the straits — putting Turkey, a Nato member that sold

arms to Kyiv[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/ukraine-crisis-russia-will-only-use-nuclear-weapons-if-its-existence-is-threatened-f3c2cldjd]

but has tried to keep in with the Kremlin, in a decidedly awkward position.

“The entire commercial activity of southern Russia, imports and exports, passes through here,” said Isik, 55, as a seagull coasted past, hanging in the breeze. “It puts it into perspective a bit. Not everything is so dire for Russia. Some of their business continues.”

Each week, from his observation spots on the straits, he spots something new:

grain stolen by Russia[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/russian-grain-theft-from-ukraine-threatens-another-famine-3lqggg2tw]

from the occupied Ukrainian territories and shipped to Syria; millions of litres of Russian oil sent to India; mysterious supplies ferried on Russian-flagged civilian ships that are part of an auxiliary arm of the Russian navy.

“It’s mind-boggling,” said Isik, who is also a geopolitical analyst with the Middle East Institute. “It’s capitalism par excellence.”

Meanwhile, Russia is maintaining a

full naval blockade of Ukraine[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/russia-bombards-odesa-as-naval-blockade-threatens-global-food-shortage-slvv9jngj]

, strangling its economy and preventing exports of vital commodities like grain and oil amid fears of rising global hunger.

None of this violates the 1936 Montreux Convention, the agreement which governs the straits and allows complete freedom of passage of all civilian vessels in peacetime — as well as giving Turkey the power to restrict the passage of navies that are not part of the Black Sea states.

It does, however, highlight the increasingly difficult bind that Turkey finds itself in: attempting to navigate its way around a war without being drawn into it.

A few days after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began, Turkey shocked the world by announcing a ban on all military vessels through the Bosphorus for the first time since the Second World War.

Since then it has trodden an extremely delicate path: expressing sympathies and support to the Ukrainian people — and, more concretely, selling them

Bayraktar TB2 armed drones[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/ukraines-bayraktar-drones-sink-two-russian-gunboats-in-black-sea-pjx3xz2h6]

, which are continuing to do enormous damage to Russian forces — while at the same time trying not to antagonise the Kremlin.

Unlike many of its Nato allies, Turkey has declined to impose sanctions on Russia, and has attempted to position itself as an interlocutor between the two warring sides. The last round of discussions, held in Istanbul, didn’t result in any lasting agreements, but did end with the Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich — a member of the negotiating team — apparently having been poisoned.

Turkey has also fallen out with its fellow Nato states over its refusal to allow Finland and Sweden to enter the alliance. Last week, western and Turkish diplomats appeared to believe that the issue would soon be resolved. Publicly, however, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and pro-government media outlets kept up a steady stream of outrage at what they claim is Sweden’s lax attitude towards Turkey’s security concerns, particularly concerning Kurdish militants.

Direct criticism of Russia, meanwhile, has been relatively muted.

“The Turkish government is in an awkward situation, stuck between the west and Russia,” said Selim Kuneralp, a retired Turkish diplomat who has worked closely on the Montreux Convention — and is a cousin of Boris Johnson through his Turkish great-grandfather. “And the longer the war goes on, the more difficult this situation will be to maintain.”

There was, he said, little that Turkey could do to strangle Russia’s ability to trade and resupply through civilian ships that are part of the Russian navy’s auxiliary arm. According to the 1936 convention, Turkey does not have the power to stop and inspect vessels passing the straits. Yet it can block passage to military craft in times of war.

“As long as Turkey is not a party to any war, it can’t close the straits to non-military traffic, so that’s that,” said Kuneralp.

Isik, the ship-spotter, disagreed. “I think if there was a will, there would be a way to find it,” he said, later adding: “I don’t think we’re close to this point because Turkey is still trying to achieve things without offending Russians.”

Any attempt by Turkey to stop or inspect Russian civilian ships sailing through the Bosphorus would have enormous consequences.

Since the time of Catherine the Great, Russia has sought to ensure itself free passage through the straits; its only direct route to the warm waters of the Mediterranean. Stalin, rattled by two German warships that snuck into the Black Sea disguised as civilian ships during the Second World War, repeatedly demanded that the Soviets be allowed to build bases on the Bosphorus.

The pressure eventually helped push Turkey into the western camp during the Cold War.

“Almost every hostility that happened between Turkey and Russia in the last 200 years pretty much happened because Russia has demanded or desired to have uninterrupted access to the Turkish straits,” Isik said.

When the war in Syria was at its peak, Russian naval warships would transit regularly through the straits to resupply their allies in Damascus. Early this year, however, Isik noticed something quite different: rather than heading out to the Mediterranean, Russian warships were coming back home from their far-flung fleets in the Baltic and North seas.

“Given that the Black Sea fleet actually has plenty of landing ships, bringing additional ships was the first sign that Russia was planning a military operation which will include simultaneous twin amphibious landings,” he said.

Russian officials said at the time that the ships were returning home for military exercises. A few weeks later, the war began — and Russia imposed a naval blockade on Ukraine, preventing it from sending desperately needed exports of grain and sunflower oil via the Black Sea.

Meanwhile, satellite photographs show that Russia has continually stolen grain from occupied Ukrainian territories, including Crimea, and exported it through the Black Sea and the Bosphorus marked as its own.

“They take grain from occupied territories in Kherson, Zaporizhzhia, and deliver it to trucks to Crimea, and export it via Crimean ports, which is prohibited because it’s illegal, because it’s occupied territory officially,” said Olena Neroba, business development manager at Maxigrain, a Ukrainian agricultural brokerage firm.

Last week David Beasley, director of the World Food Programme, warned that the war in Ukraine had created an “unprecedented crisis” of sharply rising food prices, sparking riots and pushing millions towards starvation.

Speaking at a UN Security Council meeting, he argued that a “political solution” was desperately needed to reopen Ukrainian ports.

“Failure to open those ports in the Odesa region will be a declaration of war on global food security, and it will result in famine and destabilisation and mass migration around the world,” he said.

For now, said Neroba, Ukraine was staring down the barrel of an overwhelming economic and food crisis.

“Usually on average Ukraine exports around 70 million tonnes of agricultural products per year, about six million tonnes a month. Now we’re doing one million,” she said. “We are trying to do more, to organise exports via the western borders by railway ... but that’s not enough.”

In the new planting season, which begins in a few months, Neroba estimates that Ukraine will make still further losses.

“Instead of exports of around 25 million tonnes of wheat next season, in current circumstances we’ll do around five million tonnes. That means 20 million tonnes next season will be lost for the global market,” she said. “And there are no other countries in the world that can replace us. Even all the other countries together who produce wheat can’t produce it in the next season.”

India had been expected to try to make up some of this shortfall. But they and Pakistan have faced extremely high temperatures, which has reduced their output to the point that they have stopped exporting.

A rise in the price of fertiliser, Neroba said, had also led to farmers using them more sparingly, and crop yield declining as a result.

“Even with great weather conditions, which I doubt we’ll have, then we’ll face a huge shortage next season. And if the situation stays the same, in two years it’ll be an even deeper problem because for this season, Ukrainian farmers planted with fertilisers they bought in advance, and for the next season we won’t have anywhere to buy fertilisers,” she said.

“Russia is not just killing Ukrainians physically, directly, but they are blackmailing the world through hunger.”

@LouiseElisabet

@LouiseElisabet

News UK & Ireland Limited

文件 SUNDTI0020220521ei5l0016n


News
From a ferry on the Bosphorus, the ship-spotter on the lookout for Russian sanction-busters
Louise Callaghan
1052 字
2022 年 5 月 22 日
The Sunday Times
ST
1; National
16,17
英文
© Times Newspapers Limited 2022
Squinting into the salt-tinged breeze, Yoruk Isik looked out over the Bosphorus from the passenger deck of an Istanbul ferry. Each day, the veteran ship-spotter obsessively tracks the vessels that pass through this narrow waterway, carrying iron ore from South America, vehicle parts from Romania, oil from the Black Sea port of Novorossiysk.

Since the war in Ukraine began, however, his observations have taken a different turn.

These straits, where the warships of Alexander the Great and Suleiman the Magnificent once sailed to battle, have now become a vital artery for Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Despite western sanctions and arms embargoes, Moscow is continuing to trade and resupply through the straits putting Turkey, a Nato member that sold arms to Kyiv but has tried to keep in with the Kremlin, in a decidedly awkward position.

"The entire commercial activity of southern Russia, imports and exports, passes through here," said Isik, 55, as a seagull coasted past, hanging in the breeze. "It puts it into perspective a bit. Not everything is so dire for Russia. Some of their business continues."

Each week, from his observation spots on the straits, he sees something new: grain stolen by Russia from the occupied Ukrainian territories and shipped to Syria; millions of litres of Russian oil sent to India; mysterious supplies ferried on Russian-flagged civilian ships that are part of an auxiliary arm of the Russian navy.

"It's mind-boggling," said

Isik, who is also a geopolitical analyst with the Middle East Institute. "It's capitalism par excellence."

Meanwhile, Russia is maintaining a full naval blockade of Ukraine, strangling its economy and preventing exports of vital commodities like grain and oil amid fears of rising global hunger. None of this violates the 1936 Montreux Convention, the agreement which governs the straits and allows complete freedom of passage of all civilian vessels in peacetime as well as giving Turkey the power to restrict the passage of navies that are not part of the Black Sea states.

It does, however, highlight the increasingly difficult bind that Turkey finds itself in: attempting to navigate its way around a war without being drawn into it.

A few days after Russia's invasion of Ukraine began, Turkey shocked the world by announcing a ban on all military vessels through the Bosphorus for the first time since the Second World War.

Since then it has trodden an extremely delicate path: expressing sympathies and support to the Ukrainian people, and selling them

Bayraktar TB2 armed drones, while at the same time trying not to antagonise the Kremlin. Unlike many of its Nato allies, Turkey has declined to impose sanctions on Russia, and has attempted to position itself as an interlocutor between the two warring sides.

The last round of discussions, held in Istanbul, didn't result in any lasting agreements, but did end with the Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich a member of the negotiating team apparently having been poisoned.

Turkey has also fallen out with its fellow Nato states over its refusal to allow Finland and Sweden to enter the alliance. Last week, western and Turkish diplomats appeared to believe that the issue would soon be resolved. Publicly, however, President Recep

Tayyip Erdogan and progovernment media outlets kept up a steady stream of outrage at what they claim is Sweden's lax attitude towards Turkey's security concerns, particularly concerning Kurdish militants.

Direct criticism of Russia, meanwhile, has been relatively muted.

"The Turkish government is in an awkward situation, stuck between the west and Russia," said Selim Kuneralp, a retired Turkish diplomat who has worked closely on the Montreux Convention and is a cousin of Boris Johnson through his Turkish great-grandfather. "And the longer the war goes on, the more difficult this situation will be to maintain."

There was, he said, little that Turkey could do to strangle Russia's ability to trade and resupply through civilian ships that are part of the Russian navy's auxiliary arm. According to the 1936 convention, Turkey does not have the power to stop and inspect vessels passing the straits. Yet it can block passage to military craft in times of war.

"As long as Turkey is not a party to any war, it can't close the straits to non-military traffic, so that's that," said Kuneralp. Isik, the shipspotter, disagreed. "I think if there was a will, there would be a way to find it," he said.

Any attempt by Turkey to stop or inspect Russian civilian ships sailing through the Bosphorus would have enormous consequences.

"Almost every hostility that happened between Turkey and Russia in the last 200 years pretty much happened because Russia has demanded or desired to have uninterrupted access to the Turkish straits," Isik said.

When the war in Syria was at its peak, Russian naval warships would transit regularly through the straits to resupply their allies in Damascus. Early this year, however, Isik noticed that rather than heading out to the Mediterranean, Russian warships were coming home from their far-flung fleets in the Baltic and North seas.

"Given that the Black Sea fleet actually has plenty of landing ships, bringing additional ships was the first sign that Russia was planning a military operation," he said.

Russian officials said at the time that the ships were returning home for military exercises. A few weeks later, the war began and Russia imposed a naval blockade on Ukraine, preventing it from sending desperately needed exports of grain and sunflower oil via the Black Sea.

Meanwhile, satellite photographs show that Russia has continually stolen grain from occupied

Ukrainian territories, including Crimea, and exported it through the Black Sea and the Bosphorus marked as its own.

A spokesman for the Russian embassy in London said: "Recent accusations against Russia of creating a threat of a global food crisis by not letting cargo ships with grain out of Odesa and other Ukrainian ports have nothing to do with reality."

Last week David Beasley, director of the World Food Programme, warned that the war in Ukraine had created an "unprecedented crisis" of sharply rising food prices, sparking riots and pushing millions towards starvation. @LouiseElisabet

Business, pages 2 and 3

News UK & Ireland Limited

文件 ST00000020220522ei5m000f0


WATCH: Romania's Irina-Camelia Begu apologises after racquet hits youngster at French Open 2022
403 字
2022 年 5 月 27 日
Times Now
TIMNOW
英文
Copyright 2022 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd.
Romanian tennis player Irina-Camelia Begu apologised on Thursday for throwing her racquet into a French Open crowd where it hit a child in the face. Begu's racquet bounced off the ground and flew towards the fans during the second set of her match against Ekaterina Alexandrova on Court 12 in the French Open.

watch: romania's irina-camelia begu apologises after racquet hits youngster at french open 2022[https://static.tnn.in/thumb/msid-91821613,imgsize-62946,width-1280,height-720/91821613.jpg]

Paris: Romanian player Irina-Camelia Begu made an apology for bouncing her racquet into the crowd. The racquet hit a child in the face. The incident took place during the second set of her match against Ekaterina Alexandrova on Court 12 in the French Open 2022. The play was delayed for five minutes due to the incident."It's an embarrassing moment for me, so I don't want to talk too much about it. I just want to apologise," reported news agency AFP quoting Begu as saying. The world no. 63 further added that she felt bad for what she did. "My whole career I didn't do something like this, and I feel really bad and sorry. So I'm just going to say again, sorry for the incident and it was just an embarrassing moment for me," stated Begu.Here is the video:The Romanian player threw the racquet at her chair in frustration. It bounced and hit the boy sitting close to umpire Anis Ressaissi's chair. After the boy started crying, the tournament referee arrived to mediate between Begu and the parents of the child. Begu took the child in her arms.Also Read: French Open 2022: Rafael Nadal sails into third round with 300th Grand Slam match victory[https://www.timesnownews.com/sports/tennis/french-open-2022-rafael-nadal-sails-into-third-round-with-300th-grand-slam-match-victory-article-91799928] Notably, Begu was only given a warning and was not defaulted with the tournament. "It was a difficult moment. You hit the clay with the racquet, but you never expect to fly that much," reported the news agency quoting the Romanian player as saying. Begu won the match 6-7 (3/7), 6-3, 6-4. On Tuesday, Russia's Andrey Rublev escaped sanction at Roland Garros when he angrily smashed a ball and it narrowly missed a court groundsman. In 2020, Novak Djokovic was disqualified from the US Open after he swiped at a ball in anger and it hit a line judge.

Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.

文件 TIMNOW0020220526ei5r000rv


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary seeks gas from Romania to avoid dependence on Russia
1321 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The invasion of Ukraine has forced several countries to seek alternative routes to their gas supply in the face of Russian dependence. Hungary is one of them and has targeted an interesting ally: Romania.

Thus, Hungary intends to start importing gas from this producer country. Romania produces around 11 billion cubic meters per year, according to S&P Global. According to Electricity Map, 18.41% of Romania's electricity comes from natural gas, while hydropower accounts for 31.04%. Also, the production found in the Black Sea could turn Romania into a gas exporter to the entire Eastern European region.

Black Sea Oil & Gas (BSOG) is a company with a track record of more than 25 years in the Romanian offshore oil and gas sector. It is the first company to develop a new gas field in the Romanian offshore sector in the last 30 years.

The company will start extracting gas from its Romanian offshore project in the second quarter of 2022. Gas producers have been preparing to exploit Romania's estimated 200 billion cubic meters in the Black Sea for more than a decade, but four years ago they suspended their projects when an additional offshore tax was introduced, according to Black Sea Oil & Gas' own website.

Libre Mercado has had the opportunity to interview Attila Steiner, the Hungarian State Secretary for the Development of Circular Economy, Energy and Climate, to discuss different energy issues.

"Security of supply is an important element of national sovereignty. The Hungarian government aims to strengthen its energy independence and market integration by creating a diversified supply portfolio through the support of energy infrastructure development, the maximum sustainable use of domestic hydrocarbon assets (conventional and unconventional) and renewable resources, and the maintenance of nuclear capacity in energy" Steiner explained.

As of October 1, 2019, a reverse flow capacity of 1.75 billion cubic meters/year is available at the interconnection point between Romania and Hungary. "Romania has sufficient domestic onshore gas production, which covers more than 40% of its domestic demand. Likewise, it is also part of the Trans-Balkan Corridor, which can transport natural gas from Bulgaria and Greece, including LNG and other sources from Turkey and the Middle East," Steiner said.

Steiner has assured that not only Romania's own gas can be crucial for the Magyar country, but the Black Sea can be key:"The Black Sea also has huge untapped gas potential, which is expected to be explored in the next 5 years. New compressor stations in Hungary and the development of some pipelines will open up the possibility of transporting offshore Black Sea gas production to Hungary."

The Russian gas dilemma Hungary is one of the countries most dependent on Russian gas. The same goes for oil. At least two-thirds of crude oil and 75/80% of natural gas comes from Russia, according to Eurostat. As a result, the Hungarian government rejects all energy sanctions against Russia. It is not the only country: Bulgaria, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have also done so.

Despite pressure from the European Union to sanction Russian oil and gas, Hungary is standing firm on the decision to maintain supplies."The government's priority is to ensure the energy security of the population and to maintain regulated energy prices, which are conditional on the availability of oil and gas, and the return to normal energy prices as soon as possible," Steiner said.

Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, said on a radio that if the latest sanctions package were to be carried out, the Hungarian economy would suffer "an atomic bomb".

Steiner insists on that idea. "The economic consequences of sanctions imposed on Russia are serious, but if they were imposed on oil and gas imported into Europe, they would be even more serious, considering that 85% of all gas consumed in Hungary comes from Russia, 85% of Hungarian households run on gas and we produce fuel with oil, 64% of which also comes from Russia. We cannot allow the Hungarian people to pay the price of war," he says.

It is a truism that the invasion has created an opportunity for other countries to rethink their energy strategy, and Hungary is one of them. "The current war has initiated and accelerated the search for alternative solutions. The Hungarian pipeline network is connected to all its neighbors, with the exception of Slovenia. Of the 6 interconnectors, 5 bring Russian gas to Hungary. Our interconnection capacity is sufficient to diversify our gas supply from alternative sources, but the gas sources available on the market are limited," Steiner said.

Also, Hungary' s geographical location makes alternative supplies from other energies difficult, as Steiner explains. "If we want to bring more LNG from Croatia we have to develop the Croatian LNG terminal and the Croatian gas system, as well as the Romanian system, including extraction, to integrate the Romanian offshore resource. Finally, to import gas from Norway or Poland, the Slovak-Polish interconnector must first be put in place."

What is the role of nuclear power in Hungary? Currently, nuclear power represents the largest power supply for the Magyar country. 30.15% of Hungary's electricity is produced by nuclear power, according to Electricity Map.

Steiner says Hungary continues to rely on this energy and tells us about its latest project. "The permitting process for the Paks II project, the largest Hungarian investment of our time, is underway. The two new Paks reactor units will have a total gross electrical output of 2400 MW compared to our 4 reactor units currently in operation, which - due to upgrades and improvements - reached an output of 500 MW/each reactor unit, with a total of 2000 MW capacity. Nuclear power provides a stable backbone and backbone of the electricity system with about 50% of the total national production. With the new Paks II project this contribution can be maintained in the long term."

"We believe that all low-carbon energy sources must be part of a diverse energy mix to meet the growing demand for reliable, affordable and clean electricity. Therefore, realistic and responsible policies must continue to be pursued with the clear understanding thatthe carbon neutral economy cannot be established without nuclear power. Therefore, maintaining and developing our nuclear capacities is one of the main pillars of Hungary's Energy Strategy and National Energy and Climate Plan," concluded Steiner.

Poland, the key country? On the other hand, Poland is one of the European countries that is most openly confronting Russia on energy issues. In fact, the Polish government is seeking the toughest possible sanctions against Putin's country, while it is the country that has taken in the most refugees according to UNHCR and the sixth European country that has sent the most military aid to Ukraine, according to Statista.

In addition, Poland is also looking to its allies for alternatives to Russian gas with which to turn its back on the invader. One of them is the Baltic Pipe, a gas pipeline that will have a capacity of about 10 billion cubic meters per year, which is roughly equivalent to the amount of gas Poland currently imports from Russia, being able to help other Eastern countries in the supply of gas in the future and thus not depend on Putin.

"We are familiar with the project, we constantly discuss security of supply and strategic energy issues with our V4 (Visegrad) partners, including Poland. In 2017, the Polish government secured its long-term capacity supply with its decision to launch the 10 bcma capacity Baltic Pipe project, which connects to Norway and starts operations on October 1, 2022. We support the Baltic Pipe project as it could contribute to the diversification of Hungarian supply routes by making it possible to import gas from Slovakia, facilitating imports through the North-South Gas Corridor," Steiner concluded.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220531ei5v003ih


SOCIAL
Ukraine war: 80% of the city of Severodonetsk under Russian control. Ukrainian counter-offensive in Kherson
1232 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
Ukrainian officials say 80 percent of the city of Severodonetsk is under Russian control, and according to the head of the military administration, people are sheltering from bombings in the basements of the chemical plant, where dangerous substances are probably stored.

The head of the military administration also says people in the city are sheltering from Russian bombings in the basements of the chemical plant, where dangerous substances are probably stored.

At the same time, Petr Andryushchenko, an adviser to the mayor of Mariupol, says the Russian military is preparing new bombings on educational institutions in the Donetsk region, targeting schools in Kramatorsk and Slaviansk. “Be vigilant. Take all security measures and do not ignore the alarm messages,” he warned residents.

Between 60 and 100 Ukrainian soldiers are killed every day in Russia’s war, says Volodymyr Zelensky in an interview with an American news site. Another 500 defenders are injured daily, says the Kyiv leader. Regarding the situation on the eastern front, Zelensky says that the Ukrainian army remains in a defensive position.

The British Ministry of Defense also shows in its latest assessment of the situation on the front that the Russians now control most of Severodonetsk. According to British officials, the main road to the center of Severodonetsk probably remains under Ukrainian control, but the Russians continue to make constant local gains by concentrating artillery, but have also suffered significant losses.

Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine – 2 June 2022

Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/Cgie1d3GJa[https://t.co/Cgie1d3GJa]

?? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ?? pic.twitter.com/oC4NSGhSQT[https://t.co/oC4NSGhSQT]

— Ministry of Defence ?? (@DefenceHQ) June 2, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1532238230137057281?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Institute for War Study: Russians continue to undermine the economic viability of the areas they are trying to occupy

In the assessment from Wednesday night to Thursday morning, the Washington War Institute (ISW) reports that the current Ukrainian counteroffensive in the Kherson region has attracted the attention of Russian forces in the area, and the Russians are trying to secure the vital line of communication that Ukrainians have tried to destroy it.

Ukrainian forces have carried out a series of organized counterattacks targeting settlements on the east bank of the Ihulets River, an area very close to a key highway through which the Russians support their forces further north.

The Russians responded by destroying a bridge that the Ukrainians used in one of these counterattacks, as well as other bridges over the river, in an effort to maintain their line against the anticipated operations of the Ukrainian counter-offensive. Ukrainian forces are probably still close enough to that road to disrupt the use of the road as the main supply route.

The Ukrainian counteroffensive in #Kherson[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Kherson?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] Oblast has gotten the attention of Russian forces in the area. The Russians are now scrambling to secure the vital ground line of communication (GLOC) the Ukrainians have threatened.

New w/ @criticalthreats[https://twitter.com/criticalthreats?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] : https://t.co/7CkH3SCBdL[https://t.co/7CkH3SCBdL] pic.twitter.com/zQUG7rh2nm[https://t.co/zQUG7rh2nm]

— ISW (@TheStudyofWar) June 1, 2022[https://twitter.com/TheStudyofWar/status/1532143772880056320?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Zelensky, his wife – messages in interviews for foreign media

Ukraine’s President, Volodymyr Zelensky told an interview for US media that 60 to 100 Ukrainian soldiers are dying on the battlefield on a daily basis, while other 500 are injured.

He also said that, in those past 98 days since Russia had invaded Ukrainw, 689 children have been injured following attacks, and 243 have died. Other 139 children are reported missing. He even gave the names of ten Ukrainian children killed in the war, saying it is not about numbers, but about distinct worlds that the Russian army ruined.

In her turn, his wife, Olena Zelenska told an interview to ABC News that surrendering territory to Russia would not put an end to Putin’s invasion.

“Ukrainians cannot accept all the statements we sometimes hear from the leaders of the countries – in some cases, the leaders of the big and influential countries. You can’t just cede parts of your territory, it’s like recognizing freedom,” said President Zelensky’s wife.

She reiterated her husband’s position that the Donbas region – where Russia is now focusing its offensive – will once again be Ukrainian. “The aggressor would not stop there, he would continue to press, he would continue … to launch more and more attacks against our territory,” Olena Zelenska added.

Russians will supply the International Space Station with a rocket with the words “Donbas”, decorated with the flags of Donetsk and Lugansk

In defiance, Russia is preparing to send a Soyuz rocket decorated with the flags of the two self-proclaimed separatist republics of eastern Ukraine, Donetsk and Lugansk, to the International Space Station on Friday.

The rocket is currently being transported on the railway in a horizontal position, informs TASS. The second stage of the missile is decorated with the flags of the internationally unrecognized people’s republics of Donetsk and Lugansk, which Russia considers independent.

Ukraine buys howitzers from Poland

Ukraine will buy another 60 AHS Krab self-propelled howitzers from Poland, in addition to the 18 that Warsaw announced it had donated to Ukraine, notes The Kyiv Independent.

AHS Krab self-propelled howitzers use 155mm ammunition and have a maximum range of 40 kilometers.

?? Poland to sell Ukraine additional 60 KRAB self-propelled howitzers.

Polish media outlet Dziennik reported that these weapons will be delivered in the next few months. In May, Poland sent 18 KRAB self-propelled howitzers to Ukraine.

— The Kyiv Independent (@KyivIndependent) June 2, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1532171719598919681?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Hungary blocks the Russian oil embargo by refusing to sanction Patriarch Kirill

Hungary on Wednesday blocked the adoption of the embargo on Russian oil and the new European sanctions decided against Moscow in order to obtain the withdrawal from the EU blacklist of the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, several diplomatic sources have indicated.

The patriarch is considered “a longtime ally of President Vladimir Putin” and has “become one of the main supporters of Russian military aggression against Ukraine”, according to the proposed sanctions submitted to member states.

Leaders of the 27 EU countries meeting at a summit in Brussels on Monday and Tuesday reached an agreement to cut their Russian oil imports by about 90% by the end of the year to stop funding Russia’s offensive against Ukraine.

Russia goes into default after missing the deadline

Russia’s possible default on Wednesday resurfaced on Wednesday after Moscow failed to pay interest on debt, as economic pressure on Russia rose in the fourth month of war in Ukraine.

As the three major international financial rating agencies no longer give ratings to Russia in the application of Western sanctions, they have refrained from declaring the country insolvent or not, as is their usual role.

It is therefore the responsibility of an organization of large international banks (Committees for the Determination of Credit Derivatives) to assess whether or not Russia is paying its creditors. On Wednesday, for the first time, the creditors’ committee said the country had defaulted on $ 1.9 million in interest on its debt, a small amount given the financial strength of a state like Russia.

More precisely, Russia “paid the sums it had to pay on time, but forgot, intentionally or unintentionally, to add interest on arrears,” Eric Dor, director of economics at IESEG School of Management, told AFP.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/kherson.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220602ei6200002


UPDATE Emmanuel Macron: In order for Ukraine to win and ceasefire to come about, we need to negotiate
444 字
2022 年 6 月 15 日 09:31 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, June 15 /Agerpres/ - The Ukrainian president will have to negotiate with Russia, and the Europeans will also be present at the negotiating table, bringing security guarantees, said on Wednesday French President Emmanuel Macron, who visited 57th Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base and had talks with President Klaus Iohannis.

'We, Europeans, share the same continent and geography is stubborn and Russia will stay where it is, where it was yesterday and where it will be tomorrow. Russia is a feared power and we do not want to be at war with the Russian people. We have not said this, but for Ukraine to win and the cease-fire to come about, we must negotiate. The President of Ukraine will have to negotiate with Russia and we, the Europeans, will be present at this table, bringing security guarantees and elements that fall within our remit. This is the reality, it will have to happen at some point and no excessive speech should come to overshadow our future,' the French president told a news conference.

He emphasised that France had taken steps to prevent the war and to sanction Russia, which it had 'designated from day one as responsible' for this 'political, moral and historical mistake'.

'In the face of the war decided by Russia against Ukraine and against the Ukrainian people - the position of France and Europe is clear from day one. First let us do everything to prevent this war - and we have acted on it - and then let us clearly and in an unified manner sanction Russia, which we have designated from day one as responsible for this war and for this political, moral and historical mistake. We have tried, under the French presidency, to maintain the unity of the Europeans and to decide quickly and strongly the first package of sanctions, and since the beginning of the conflict we have taken six series of successive unprecedented sanctions, until the last one, which almost entirely sanction the supply of Russian oil,' Macron said.

The French president added that his country will continue to support Ukraine to defend itself, but also from an economic, financial and humanitarian point of view.

'Very clearly we will continue to support Ukraine, to help it defend itself, to fight, to help it economically and financially, in terms of humanitarian plan. And we will continue to receive (refugees, ed. n.) on European soil, which is the main space in the world that receives these refugees fleeing war,' Emmanuel Macron said.AGERPRES(RO - author: Irinela Visan, editor: Andreea Rotaru; EN - editors: Simona Iacob, Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220615ei6f001gt


CE Noticias Financieras English
Macron warns of "an unprecedented situation at the gates of the EU" after his arrival in Romania
368 字
2022 年 6 月 15 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
MADRID, 15 (EUROPA PRESS)

Macron has taken the opportunity to stress that "there is no country like Romania" and to guarantee that he can count on France's "fraternity". "We have had a friendship for centuries and I am proud that we can enhance it within NATO," he said after meeting Iohannis at an air base in Constanta.

"We have a common vision on the situation in Ukraine and we have addressed Romania's accession to the Schengen area. We want this case to go ahead with the help of France," he asserted before insisting on the need to "do everything in our power to stop the war, sanction Russia and build peace."

Thus, he has pointed out that "at some point the fighting will stop and talks will resume". "The Ukrainian leader will have to negotiate, but so will the Europeans. We have to sit at the table", he insisted before calling for sending a message of support to Ukraine and Moldova, according to information from the newspaper 'Libertatea'.

75% of young Mexicans unable to get formal jobsIrregularities denounced in closure of Hostería La Bota in Cuauhtémoc mayor's officePRI leadership gives ultimatum to 'Alito' and leaves his dismissal in suspenseFor the Gallic president, "we are in a situation in which efforts must be made to facilitate grain exports from Ukraine". "We have to remain united and take into account the Western Balkans region, which is in danger".

Macron, who arrived in Romania on Tuesday evening, was received by the Prime Minister, Nicolae Ciuca. Later Wednesday, he is scheduled to hold a press conference with Iohannis and meet with military personnel deployed at the Kogalniceanu base.

Iohannis, for his part, has welcomed Macron and stressed that the commitment of troops and other allies shows "unity and allows to increase security in the Black Sea and the Euro-Atlantic region", as he has indicated in a message via Twitter.

Ukrainian sources have reported that Iohannis and Macron, along with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, are scheduled to travel to Kiev on Thursday.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220615ei6f004q5


President Macron: At EU gates, an original geo-political situation is playing out
618 字
2022 年 6 月 15 日 10:16 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Constanta, June 15 /Agerpres/ - French Republic President Emmanuel Macron said Wednesday that messages of support are needed for Ukraine, but also for the Republic of Moldova, a country 'destabilized by separatist political movements and the large number of refugees' it receives on its territory.

'We must send a message of support to Ukraine at this critical moment. Let's also consider the situation of Moldova, a neighbouring country, where I will travel today. We must support it, because it is destabilized by separatist political movements and by the large number of refugees it generously receives on its soil. The representatives of the humanitarian organizations will accompany me. We must also bear in mind the effects on the Western Balkans region, which have also been engaged in this accession process for several years. A region that risks being destabilised by any movement. We see that an original geo-political situation is playing out at the gates of the European Union. The geo-political context and the decisions that European nations must make justify new in-depth discussions and new progress,' Emmanuel Macron said at a press conference held by President Klaus Iohannis, at the Mihail Kogalniceanu military air base in southeastern Constanta County.

The French leader stressed the importance of talks with Ukraine, adding that the EU must send 'clear' political signals to the country and to the Ukrainian people, 'who have been heroically resisting' for several months.

'From a political and logistical point of view, I believe that we are in a situation of convergence at the present time in order to have new discussions with Ukraine, to continue the cooperation and equipment effort and the financial effort. We are in a context where we need to ensure the export of cereals from Ukraine. We are also at a time when we need to send out political signals, we, Europeans, the European Union. Clear political signals to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people who have been heroically resisting for many months. That is why the Europeans need to remain united, it is our work for several weeks, which focuses on this issue and the European Council must take decisions in this regard,' Macron said.

He reiterated France's view that Russia 'is the aggressor country' and added that 'the only possible resolution of the conflict' is either a military victory for Ukraine or a discussion for an agreement between Ukraine and Russia. In this regard, he said he was 'struck' by the fact that 'there is a form of verbal escalation', without an analysis of the consequences of these statements.

'We have strongly condemned this war in all international structures and we have taken measures. The difficulty, at the moment, that we have discussed at length with President Iohannis is that, of course, we denounce this situation, we sanction Russia, we support the Ukrainians to fight, but to be lucid, to find that we do not launch ourselves into a war, we are not at war, we are not at war with Russia. So the only way out, the only possible solution to the conflict is either a military victory of Ukraine or at some point a discussion, because it is the only solution that allows for an agreement between Ukraine and Russia. So (...) it's a matter of common sense. I am struck to see that there is a form of verbal escalation, without an analysis of the consequences of these statements. I try to be coherent in what I say and in accordance with the situation on the ground,' the French president said.AGERPRES(RO - author: Irinela Visan, editor: Mihai Simionescu; EN - editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220615ei6f001up


DEFENCE
President Macron, at the 57th Military Air Base Mihail Kogalniceanu: For France, Romania is not a country like any other, the alliance between the two countries is based on a two-century friendship
3137 字
2022 年 6 月 15 日
Nine O'Clock Online
NINEOC
英文
Copyright 2022. Nineoclock.ro. All rights reserved.
For France, Romania is not a country like any other, the alliance between the two countries is based on a two-century friendship, the President of the French Republic, Emmanuel Macron, who visited the 57th Military Air Base Mihail Kogalniceanu, in southeastern Constanta County, and had talks with his Romanian counterpart, Klaus Iohannis, said on Wednesday.

“For France, Romania is not a country like any other. The alliance of our countries is based on a friendship of two centuries. I have evoked this together and several times. In the face of serious crises threatening its security, Romania was able to count on the brotherhood of France. I am proud that today we continue this historical tradition. In order to go further, we want to continue to advance bilaterally, we are working at the request of the Romanian authorities on an ambitious plan to support the Romanian Naval Forces. The relevant ministers were able to discuss and establish a framework document and, on the political and military level we want to strengthen this framework document and this cooperation,” the French president said.

Emmanuel Macron added that the French military apparatus operating within NATO in Romania will increase.

“And also, within NATO, because in this framework the French army is on Romanian territory, together with the other allies and with the support of the Romanian Army, the current device will grow, will increase its capabilities. The summit to be held in Madrid will confirm this ambition and is an additional proof of our unity to remove any military threat from the eastern flank of the EU and NATO,” Macron said.

The French president stressed that he shares a common vision with his Romanian counterpart on several topical issues in the region.

“That is why my visit makes a special sense, we have a common vision, together, Mr. President, when it comes to the political approach to the situation in Ukraine, a common approach to the file of the Western Balkans and especially to the ongoing discussions between North Macedonia and Bulgaria,” Macron said.

He also expressed the wish of the French side ‘that the file on Romania’s accession to the Schengen area should move forward.

“The French Presidency, as you know, has been particularly committed and the next few hours will be decisive. It is also about Romania’s accession to the Schengen area. We have discussed this subject and we want this dossier to evolve, to move forward. (…) We want to make the situation progress together,” Macron said.

He also referred to the importance of adopting and strengthening the Strategic Compass for the Black Sea region.

Macron also pointed out the joint commitment to supporting Ukraine in all its forms – political, humanitarian, financial, military, but also to ensure energy independence and improve global food security.

“Because here together we have also condemned the aggressor country, as shown by the unprecedented level of sanctions adopted by the European Union against Russia. And we continue together the same efforts to ensure our energy independence, to build a common defence and to improve the food security not only of Europeans, but also of the rest of the world in this context. And finally, we have approached together with President Iohannis the proposal of a European political community, which we want to see progressing, which, beyond bilateral cooperation, has the vocation to structure on a political level, on a level of security and energy and infrastructures, to structure our continent and, as a whole, all states that have a common geography and common values,” said the French president.

The President of France, Emmanuel Macron, was officially welcomed on Wednesday morning at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Military Air Base by the President of Romania, Klaus Iohannis. The two presidents had one-on-one talks and official talks, then they met with the military deployed in the Mihail Kogalniceanu military base.

The President of the French Republic arrived in Romania on Tuesday evening. He was greeted at the Mihail Kogalniceanu International Airport in Constanta County, by the Prime Minister of Romania, Nicolae Ciuca.

Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuca sent a message of thanks to France for its military presence in Romania as part of NATO’s rapid reaction force, on the occasion of welcoming French President Emmanuel Macron to Romania.

“I had the pleasure of welcoming French President Emmanuel Macron in Romania. Welcome, Mr. President! Once again, a big thank you to France for its military presence in Romania, as part of NATO’s rapid reaction force,” Nicolae Ciuca said on Tuesday evening, in a message on the Government’s twitter page.

From Romania, Emmanuel Macron will leave for Chisinau, where he will be received by the President of the Republic of Moldova, Maia Sandu.

“In order for Ukraine to win and ceasefire to come about, we need to negotiate”

The Ukrainian president will have to negotiate with Russia, and the Europeans will also be present at the negotiating table, bringing security guarantees, said on Wednesday French President Emmanuel Macron, who visited 57th Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base and had talks with President Klaus Iohannis.

“We, Europeans, share the same continent and geography is stubborn and Russia will stay where it is, where it was yesterday and where it will be tomorrow. Russia is a feared power and we do not want to be at war with the Russian people. We have not said this, but for Ukraine to win and the cease-fire to come about, we must negotiate. The President of Ukraine will have to negotiate with Russia and we, the Europeans, will be present at this table, bringing security guarantees and elements that fall within our remit. This is the reality, it will have to happen at some point and no excessive speech should come to overshadow our future,” the French president told a news conference.

He emphasised that France had taken steps to prevent the war and to sanction Russia, which it had “designated from day one as responsible” for this “political, moral and historical mistake”.

“In the face of the war decided by Russia against Ukraine and against the Ukrainian people – the position of France and Europe is clear from day one. First let us do everything to prevent this war – and we have acted on it – and then let us clearly and in an unified manner sanction Russia, which we have designated from day one as responsible for this war and for this political, moral and historical mistake. We have tried, under the French presidency, to maintain the unity of the Europeans and to decide quickly and strongly the first package of sanctions, and since the beginning of the conflict we have taken six series of successive unprecedented sanctions, until the last one, which almost entirely sanction the supply of Russian oil,” Macron said.

The French president added that his country will continue to support Ukraine to defend itself, but also from an economic, financial and humanitarian point of view.

“Very clearly we will continue to support Ukraine, to help it defend itself, to fight, to help it economically and financially, in terms of humanitarian plan. And we will continue to receive (refugees, ed. n.) on European soil, which is the main space in the world that receives these refugees fleeing war,” Emmanuel Macron said.

French President: At EU gates, an original geo-political situation is playing out

French Republic President Emmanuel Macron said Wednesday that messages of support are needed for Ukraine, but also for the Republic of Moldova, a country “destabilized by separatist political movements and the large number of refugees” it receives on its territory.

“We must send a message of support to Ukraine at this critical moment. Let’s also consider the situation of Moldova, a neighbouring country, where I will travel today. We must support it, because it is destabilized by separatist political movements and by the large number of refugees it generously receives on its soil. The representatives of the humanitarian organizations will accompany me. We must also bear in mind the effects on the Western Balkans region, which have also been engaged in this accession process for several years. A region that risks being destabilised by any movement. We see that an original geo-political situation is playing out at the gates of the European Union. The geo-political context and the decisions that European nations must make justify new in-depth discussions and new progress,” Emmanuel Macron said at a press conference held by President Klaus Iohannis, at the Mihail Kogalniceanu military air base in southeastern Constanta County.

The French leader stressed the importance of talks with Ukraine, adding that the EU must send “clear” political signals to the country and to the Ukrainian people, “who have been heroically resisting” for several months.

“From a political and logistical point of view, I believe that we are in a situation of convergence at the present time in order to have new discussions with Ukraine, to continue the cooperation and equipment effort and the financial effort. We are in a context where we need to ensure the export of cereals from Ukraine. We are also at a time when we need to send out political signals, we, Europeans, the European Union. Clear political signals to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people who have been heroically resisting for many months. That is why the Europeans need to remain united, it is our work for several weeks, which focuses on this issue and the European Council must take decisions in this regard,” Macron said.

He reiterated France’s view that Russia “is the aggressor country” and added that “the only possible resolution of the conflict” is either a military victory for Ukraine or a discussion for an agreement between Ukraine and Russia. In this regard, he said he was “struck” by the fact that “there is a form of verbal escalation”, without an analysis of the consequences of these statements.

“We have strongly condemned this war in all international structures and we have taken measures. The difficulty, at the moment, that we have discussed at length with President Iohannis is that, of course, we denounce this situation, we sanction Russia, we support the Ukrainians to fight, but to be lucid, to find that we do not launch ourselves into a war, we are not at war, we are not at war with Russia. So the only way out, the only possible solution to the conflict is either a military victory of Ukraine or at some point a discussion, because it is the only solution that allows for an agreement between Ukraine and Russia. So (…) it’s a matter of common sense. I am struck to see that there is a form of verbal escalation, without an analysis of the consequences of these statements. I try to be coherent in what I say and in accordance with the situation on the ground,” the French president said.

Iohannis: Cooperation between Romania and France in the field of security has recently seen a special and welcome intensification

Cooperation between Romania and France in the field of security has recently seen a special and welcome intensification, amid the crisis generated by the military aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, said President Klaus Iohannis, who pointed out that the visit of his French counterpart, Emmanuel Macron, is further evidence of the “excellent bilateral relationship” between the two countries.

“Your visit, Mr. President, and the substantial consultations we have just concluded are further evidence of the excellent bilateral relationship of genuine strategic partnership between our countries. Welcome, dear Emmanuel! Even in the midst of the crisis generated by the military aggression of the Federation Russia in Ukraine, our cooperation on security has recently intensified and, I can say, very welcome,” Klaus Iohannis said on Wednesday at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Base.

Iohannis thanked once again for the presence of the French military in Romania and for the assuming by France of the quality of leader of the NATO battle group in our country, whose operationalization as soon as possible is a top priority.

“In fact, a special focus of our discussions was on the preparation of the NATO Summit in Madrid, which will take key decisions for the future of the Alliance and for our common security. Thus, we firstly discussed the need to strengthen the deterrence and defense posture on the Eastern Flank, especially, certainly, on the Black Sea, about the new strategic concept, about the support of the Alliance partners and the prospects of the Sweden and Finland’s accession,” added Iohannis.

“I presented the measures taken by Romania for Ukrainian refugees coming to Romania, as well as the support we provide to Ukraine, including through the hub in (northeastern, ed. n.) Suceava, which France has also used intensively,” Iohannis said.

The Romanian head of state specified that another topic of primary common interest was ensuring global food security, which is deeply affected by Russia’s abusive blockade of Ukrainian ports.

He pointed out that Romania is making sustained, multidimensional efforts in support of Ukraine, by offering routes for the export of cereal, including through the Port of Constanta on the Black Sea and through the Romanian ports on the Danube.

“Our authorities are looking for integrated solutions to make this transit as efficient as possible, including with the support of our external partners. We have thus agreed with Mr. [French] President to work closely together to achieve this goal,” Iohannis said.

“We discussed how we can help the Republic of Moldova to cope with the many challenges it faces as a result of the security crisis generated by Russia’s war against Ukraine. An important initiative in this regard is the International Moldova Support Platform, which Romania, France and Germany launched in Berlin in April, and we approached the preparations for the follow-up conference on this topic, which Romania will host this summer,” the Romanian head of state said.

Klaus Iohannis pointed out that the issue of energy security was also addressed, in the light of developments in Ukraine and the EU’s strategic decisions to eliminate dependence on the Russian Federation, context in which he stressed that Romania is ready to play an active role in achieving the Union’s strategic goals and will make every effort to ensure the long-term resilience of the energy sector.

The Romanian head of state pointed out that a comprehensive topic of discussion with President Macron focused on the prospects of expanding the Schengen area, context in which he explained Romania’s legitimate expectation regarding accession.

Iohannis underscored the strong support for the European integration of Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and Georgia in their EU membership bids.

“I supported the importance of a clear political signal on the European Union’s determination to engage with partners on an ambitious pro-European path to be adopted at this month’s European Council in June,” he said.

With respect to the Western Balkans, President Iohannis went on to say that he reaffirmed Romania’s support for the adoption, as soon as possible, of the decision to launch accession negotiations with Albania and the Republic of North Macedonia.

Romanian president: Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia should be granted EU candidate status as soon as possible

President Klaus Iohannis reiterated that the Republic of Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia should be granted EU candidate status as soon as possible, adding that there are chances for European Council discussions on this subject to be finalized by the end of this month.

Iohannis thus answered a question as to whether there is a European consensus with regard to the EU candidacy of the Republic of Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia.

“As far as the application for accession of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia is concerned, this has been repeatedly discussed and we are expecting a decision by the end of this month. The Commission is working on this case, the French Presidency is extremely involved. And in my opinion, chances are that we complete the discussion in the Council by end-June,” Klaus Iohannis said on Wednesday in a press conference delivered together with French President Emmanuel Macron at the 57th ‘Mihail Kogalniceanu’ Air Base.

“I can only speak on my own and on Romania’s behalf, I said it and I will repeat it: in my opinion, the candidate status should be granted as soon as possible. It is a solution that would be morally correct, a solution that would be correct economy- and security-wise. President Macron and I discussed the matter extensively today and we will try to find a feasible and sustainable solution,” said Klaus Iohannis.

Romania, determined to play positive part in solving issue of Ukrainian cereals transport

Romania is determined to play a positive role in solving the problem related to the transport of cereals from Ukraine to international markets and is looking for the best logistical solutions in this regard from the government level, President Klaus Iohannis said on Wednesday at the Mihail Kogalniceanu military air base in southeastern Constanta County.

“In order to find the best logistical, practical solutions, Prime Minister Ciuca has already set up an inter-ministerial committee and is working intensively on finding solutions. We have to see first where we are. These logistical routes, this whole large capacity transport logistics at the moment do not exist. We are in a position to develop, not quite from scratch, but from a fairly low level to a very high level the transport capacities,” Klaus Iohannis said, in the joint press conference with visiting French President Emmanuel Macron, at the 57th Air Base Mihail Kogalniceanu.

Iohannis added that in order to achieve the mentioned objective, certain infrastructure projects need to be put into practice quickly.

“For example, let’s bring a large overall line to a port, probably in the Galati area. There is a need to facilitate the procedures on the Danube, the barge transport on the Danube and so on. There is a need to significantly increase the capacity of the Port of Constanta to trans-ship important quantities of cereals and many, many other things,” Iohannis added.

“We have transported hundreds of thousands of tonnes of wheat from Ukraine to Constanta and from there to the markets of the world, but, obviously, a significant increase in this capacity is needed and we are, together with our partners, willing and interested to develop these ways quickly,” Klaus Iohannis said.

Compiled from Agerpres

Photo: www.presidency.ro[http://www.presidency.ro]

Read also:

French President, expected in Romania to meet the French troops deployed here. Iohannis to welcome Macron at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Military Air Base[https://www.nineoclock.ro/2022/06/14/french-president-expected-in-romania-iohannis-to-welcome-macron-at-the-mihail-kogalniceanu-military-air-base/]

Click to view image[https://www.nineoclock.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/iohannis-macron.jpg]

Cristiana Invest Press SRL

文件 NINEOC0020220615ei6f0002t


Ukraine, Europe will have to negotiate with Russia over war: Macron
254 字
2022 年 6 月 15 日
UNI (United News of India)
UNNIND
英文
Copyright 2022. United News Of India
Bucharest, June 15 -- French President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday said that "it is the reality of things" that Ukraine and Europe "will have to negotiate" with Russia over the ongoing war at some point.

While on his visit to meet the French troops at the Mihail Kogalniceanu airbase in eastern Romania, Macron said, "The only desirable end to the conflict is either a Ukrainian military victory or talks at some point because fighting has stopped, so at some point we must talk.

We Europeans will be around the table to negotiate, at some point that will happen."

CNN quoted the French leader, on a two-day visit to Romania and Moldova, stressed that France is not at war with Russia, despite European support for Ukraine.

"The difficulty in which we were all plunged, is that while we condemn, we sanction, we support the Ukrainians in their fight but we are not at war with Russia," he said.

He further said that the current deployment of French forces to NATO's eastern flank "will increase in strength."

According to the French armed forces, France has about 500 troops deployed in Romania under NATO command other than fighter and surveillance aircraft, and about 300 troops in Poland and Estonia.

UNI RNJ

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from United News of India.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

United News Of India

文件 UNNIND0020220615ei6f0026h


POLITICS
Klaus Iohannis – Emmanuel Macron meeting at the Mihail Kogălniceanu Air Base
1698 字
2022 年 6 月 15 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
The Romanian and French presidents Klaus Iohannis and Emmanuel Macron, have met this morning at the Mihail Kogălniceanu Air Base in Constanţa County.

The two heads of state held one-on-one talks and official talks, as well as a meeting with the military deployed in the Kogălniceanu Base, according to a statement from the Presidential Administration.

“The commitment of our troops and other allies demonstrates our unity and strengthens security in the Black Sea and Euro-Atlantic region. Together we are stronger,” Klaus Iohannis posted on Twitter.

The two presidents discussed ways to further strengthen the Romanian-French Strategic Partnership, renewed in 2018 by the signing in Paris by Klaus Iohannis and Emmanuel Macron of the related Political Declaration, with the guidelines being detailed within the Roadmap signed in 2020.

Iohannis thanked Macron for the presence of the French military in Romania and for France’s assumption of the leadership of the NATO Combat Group in our country. “In fact, the preparation for the NATO Summit in Madrid had a special place in our discussions, which will take essential decisions for the future of the Alliance and for our common security. Thus, we discussed, with priority, the need to strengthen the position of deterrence and defense on the Eastern Flank, especially, of course, on the Black Sea, the new Strategic Concept, the support of Alliance partners and the prospects of joining Sweden and Finland,” said Iohannis.

The two leaders also discussed “the continuing deterioration of the humanitarian situation in Ukraine.”

“Romania is making sustained, multidimensional efforts to support Ukraine by offering routes for grain exports, including through the Black Sea Port of Constanta and through the Romanian ports on the Danube. Our authorities are looking for integrated solutions to make this transit as efficient as possible, including with the support of our external partners. We have thus established, together with the President, that we will cooperate closely to achieve this goal”, Iohannis continued.

Romania is not a country like any other for France, and the alliance between the two states is based on a two-century friendship, French President Emmanuel Macron said on Wednesday.

On Wednesday, the French president said he was proud and happy to be in Romania, where he had a discussion with President Klaus Iohannis. Macron appreciated the collaboration between the two countries, but also the professionalism of the Romanian army.

“Romania is not for France a country like any other. The alliance between our countries is based on a two-century friendship. We have mentioned this together several times. In the face of serious crises that threatened its security, Romania was able to count on the fraternity of France. I am proud to continue this historical tradition today. In order to go even further, we want to continue advancing bilaterally, we are working at the request of the Romanian authorities on an ambitious plan to support the Romanian Naval Forces. The relevant ministers were able to discuss and establish a framework document, and politically and militarily we want to strengthen this framework document and this cooperation,” the French president said.

The French president specified that the NATO device in Romania will be supplemented. “The current device will grow, it will increase its capabilities. The summit in Madrid will confirm this ambition and is further proof of our unity in removing any threat from the EU’s and NATO’s Eastern Flank,” Macron said.

Iohannis: Romania’s accession to Schengen will contribute to strengthening EU security

Romania’s accession to the Schengen area and its active involvement in the protection of the European Union’s external border were also addressed in the talks. Particular attention will be paid to coordinating the positions of the two states in preparation for the European Council meetings in Brussels, as well as the NATO Summit in Madrid, which will take place in the second half of June, according to the statement.

Cooperation between Romania and France on security has intensified “particularly and welcome” amid the crisis caused by the military aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, President Klaus Iohannis said in a joint press conference with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron.

“We had a comprehensive discussion with President Macron on the prospects for expanding the Schengen area and explained Romania’s legitimate expectation of accession. I emphasized that the enlargement of the Schengen area would help to strengthen the security and resilience of the Union as a whole and to strengthen the competitiveness of the Single Market for the benefit of European citizens. We are confident that we will be able to count on France’s support to unblock our country’s Schengen accession process,” said the Romanian president.

In his turn, the French President said that France is by Romania’s side on the process of Schengen accession. “We want this file to advance, to make progress. France has been by Romania’s side for years now“, Macron stated.

Macron: For Ukraine to win the war, it has to negotiate. We Europeans bring security guarantees

A priority topic on the agenda was the evolution of the security situation in the region and the multiple effects of the war in Ukraine, along with the support given to Ukraine and the Ukrainian refugees, as well as the proposals related to the reconstruction of this country.

French President Emmanuel Macron said on Wednesday that the Ukrainian president will have to negotiate with Russia, and the Europeans will also be present at the negotiating table, bringing security guarantees.

“We Europeans share the same continent and geography is stubborn and Russia will stay where it is, where it was yesterday and where it will be tomorrow. Russia is a feared power and we do not want to have war with the Russian people. We have not said this, but for Ukraine to win and the ceasefire to cease, we must negotiate. The Ukrainian president will have to negotiate with Russia, and we Europeans will also be present at this table, bringing security guarantees and elements of our responsibility. This is the reality, it will have to happen at some point and no excessive speech should overshadow our future,” the French president told a news conference.

On his statement that Russia should not be humiliated, Macron said that “in the face of Russia’s determined war against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, the position of France and Europe is clear from day one.”

“We must first do everything we can to prevent this war and we have acted in this regard, and then we must join in sanctioning Russia ,which we have designated from day one as responsible for this war, and we have acted from day one also for this political, moral and historical mistake,” Macron said.

“Since the beginning of the conflict, we have taken six series of sanctions, until the last, which almost entirely sanction the supply of Russian oil. Clearly, we will continue to support Ukraine in helping it to defend itself, to fight, economically and financially, in humanitarian terms, and we will continue to receive these refugees fleeing the war on European soil. This is the position of France, without any complacency and without any compromise, but we want to build peace as well, which means that at some point the fire must cease and the talks must resume “, added Emmanuel Macron.

The two heads of state were also discussing the continued support of the Republic of Moldova, which faces many challenges posed by the effects of Russian aggression in Ukraine, including continuing efforts to assist through the Support Platform for the Republic of Moldova, created at the initiative of Romania, France and Germany in April, according to the Presidential Administration. Applications for the status of candidate for accession to the European Union of Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and Georgia, as well as concrete support for their European integration will also be on the agenda.

The visit of the President of France takes place against the background of an intense bilateral political dialogue and within the broad framework provided by the Strategic Partnership between the two countries, as well as by the close cooperation at European and international level. To these is added the recent decision of France to be a framework nation for the Allied Combat Group in our country and to participate with troops in it.

French President Emmanuel Macron arrived in Constanța on Tuesday evening. The visit to Romania is just the beginning of the French president’s Eastern European tour. The Elysee leader’s plane landed at Mihail Kogalniceanu Airport, where he was greeted by Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuca.

Romanian PM Nicolae Ciuca sent a message of thanks to France for the military presence in Romania within the NATO rapid reaction force, on the occasion of the reception in our country of the French President Emmanuel Macron. “I had the pleasure of receiving French President Emmanuel Macron in Romania. Welcome, Mr. President! Once again, a big thank you to France for the military presence in Romania, within the NATO rapid reaction force “, Nicolae Ciucă said in a message on the Government’s twitter page.

Emmanuel Macron had a private meeting with the French soldiers stationed at the base in Constanța County. He thanked the French military and allies present in Romania in the current international context. “I also want to thank the Romanian Army for the way they received you, for the cooperation they knew how to build and to thank all the allies present, especially our American allies, who are represented here and who play an essential role on this flank of the Alliance,” said the French president.

He emphasized the importance of the rapid response of NATO allies, including France, which had deployed additional forces in the eastern flank countries. “By moving so fast (…), you have contributed to the consolidation of this partnership, but also to the building of something even more precious between nations and between armies, trust. And in particular the trust of our Romanian friends and of the entire eastern flank of Europe and our alliance. This is invaluable,” said the French president.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/macron-iohannis.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220615ei6f0002v


France's Ambassador: Romania - France Strategic Partnership, truly crucial
446 字
2022 年 6 月 29 日 11:33 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, June 29 /Agerpres/ - The Romania - France Strategic Partnership 'has been truly crucial' during the French Presidency of the EU Council, France's Ambassador in Bucharest Laurence Auer said on Wednesday.

The diplomat held a press conference at the end of the mandate of the French Presidency of the EU Council.

'France and Romania have constantly found a manner of progressing on the topics on the agenda. Our Strategic Partnership, Romania - France, has been truly crucial, this was obvious as President Macron came [to Romania] and took President Iohannis with him to Ukraine, together with Chancellor Olaf Scholtz and Prime Minister Draghi,' the Ambassador said.

At the same time, she appreciated that 'the progress made on the Schengen reform' will open the path for the next steps Romania and Bulgaria have to cover to be integrated in the Schengen Area.

Auer detailed that, in the six months of the French Presidency of the EU Council, a number of 130 decisions were made, out of which 50 were related to the war in Ukraine, the sanctions imposed on Russia.

'The 50 sanction packages were something no one could have imagined and no one knew was possible. Usually, when we talk sanctions, the discussions could last even two months and a half. So it was complicated. The thing that was not complicated was the unity. France gathered an unbelievable support. We had this from the COVID-19 period (...), we already knew that at a moment of crisis the European Union must be efficient, otherwise we would be despised by, for instance, Russia today. There would be comments that we are not efficient. The French Presidency had this characteristic - of listening to everyone, we hadn't a top to bottom agenda,' the diplomat pointed out.

At the same time, she added that France's objective was not to stop the already set agenda, in the context of the war in Ukraine. 'We wanted to have the structural approaches in Europe, in parallel with the crisis management,' she said. The diplomat appreciated that 'the European institutions can deal with such a crisis.' 'We have managed to keep unity,' Laurence Auer said.

On the other hand, an unconcluded issue remains the EU enlargement in the Western Balkans, she showed. 'If Moldova and Ukraine are candidate countries to join the EU and, at the same time, we have countries that have been candidates for 17 years, the latters develop resentments against the EU and voice their dissatisfaction with our lack of efficiency. Maybe this is an aspect we regret,' Auer said. AGERPRES (RO - author: Oana Ghita, editor: Catalin Alexandru; EN - editor: Adina Panaitescu)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220629ei6t001jl


Romanian Government Adopts Law Sanctioning Speculative Actions During Times Of Crisis And Regulating The Abuse Of Superior Bargaining Position
Iustinian Captariu
1751 字
2022 年 7 月 12 日
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
英文
(c) 2022 Mondaq Ltd
GEOIn the context of a looming post-COVID-19 financial crisis, exacerbated by the Russian intervention in Ukraine, soaring energy and fuel prices, and rapidly rising inflation, the Romanian government has recently adopted Government Emergency Ordinance 84/2022 on combating speculative actions and amending and supplementing certain normative acts (the “”). The GEO was published in the Official Gazette on 20 June 2022 and will enter into force fully in 30 days from publication.

The GEO Unfair Competition Lawintroduces major changes to the legal framework of unfair competition rules in RomaniaSBP amends Law no. 11/1991 on unfair competition (the “”) and . The GEO provides for, inter alia, sanctions for speculative actions taken in times of crisis and also introduces the concept of a superior bargaining position (“”), the abuse of which constitutes an unfair competition practice.

Speculative actions falling under the GEO

In times of mobilisation of the armed forces, a state of war, siege, emergency or alert, and other times of crisis as specifically designated by the authorities, the government may issue a decision designating certain products or services as being under speculative risk and potentially affecting the proper functioning of the economy and well-being of consumers. Such government decisions are issued for a period of six months and may be extended for an additional three-month period, as long as the relevant circumstances persist.

With respect to such products or services, according to the GEO, the following constitute speculative actions:

setting unjustifiably high prices;

limiting production and sales unjustifiably; and

hoarding goods from the external or internal market to create scarcity on the Romanian market, and reselling them at an unjustifiable higher price.

The GEO further provides for a number of criteria to be considered when evaluating speculative actions, such as:

profit margins or mark-ups for the product or service in question, in order to evaluate a disproportionate increase in prices compared to costs;

selling price levels compared to the prices used in the last 12 months or, for seasonal products or services, for similar periods during the last three years, without an objective justification for the price differences;

an artificial increase in production costs, including labour, to hide an unjustifiable increase in the price of the final product or service;

distributing products through a chain of more intermediaries than usual, without actually altering the product, in order to increase the price;

limiting production or sales unjustifiably, which has the effect of stopping or significantly diminishing supplies to the internal market, in the absence of economic or other types of factors justifying such limitation;

increasing stocks, during a certain period, compared to average stock levels in the last 12 months or, for seasonal products or services, for similar periods during the last three years, without an objective justification for the price differences.

RCCThe competent authorities for evaluating and sanctioning speculative actions are the National Authority for Consumer Protection in cases where individuals are directly affected, and the Romanian Competition Council (“”) when speculative actions are directed against other undertakings. According to the GEO, both authorities are entitled to request any relevant information available to the tax authorities, with respect to undertakings active on Romanian territory.

Introducing the abuse of SBP

In addition to the general framework against speculative actions during times of crisis, the GEO amends local rules on unfair competition and in particular introduces the notion of SBP and regulates its abuse.

As we  wrote previously, in the context of the public consultations with respect to the GEO, perhaps the most significant amendment to the Unfair Competition Law is the definition of an SBP and the regulation of its abuse. Before the GEO, it was only the abuse of a dominant position that was enforceable in Romania, with a dominant position presumed only above a 40% market share.

(i)(ii)(iii)According to the GEO, for a company to be sanctioned it must  first, hold an SBP,  abuse it, and  the case itself must be of public interest, affecting the proper functioning of the market, in order for the RCC to investigate it.

refers to the position of an undertaking that is not dominant according to Romanian Competition law, a position that is determined by market features, favouring the appearance of significant imbalances(i) (ii)(iii)and the specific relation between this undertaking and other undertakings active on different marketsPursuant to the GEO, SBP that are generated by factors such as  the specific structure of the production or distribution chains,  vulnerability towards external factors,  perishability or seasonality, .

This relation is to be analysed based on the following cumulative criteria:

the existence of an imbalance of power due to elements such as market share or brand awareness;

the importance of the commercial relationship for the proper functioning of the activities carried out by the other undertaking as a result of elements such as (i) the significant sales or acquisition rate of the undertaking holding a SBP in the activity of the other undertaking, (ii) the critical role of its goods and services for the activity of the other undertaking, or (iii) the existence of significant investments of the latter undertaking, made in view of honouring the agreed commercial relation; and

the absence of an alternative equivalent solution for the other undertaking.

According to the GEO, the abuse of SBP qualifies as a prohibited act of unfair competition if it meets the following cumulative conditions:

the undertaking holding the SBP abuses its position towards another undertaking with which the infringer had or has commercial relations;

such abuse is prone to cause the latter undertaking significant damage or to affect normal market competition; and

(i) (ii)  (iii)(iv)the abusive behaviour consists in actions or inactions such as:  the unjustified refusal to supply or acquire goods or services,  failure to comply with contractual clauses regarding payment, supply or acquisition, imposing unduly burdensome or discriminatory conditions considering the scope of the contract, or  amending or terminating in an unjustified manner the commercial relation with the partner undertaking.

The case must also be of “public interest” for the RCC to review it

the case is of public interestMoreover, the GEO provides that the RCC will only analyse and sanction unfair competition practices, including an abuse of SBP, when  affecting  the proper functioning of the market.

(i)(ii) (iii)(iv)(v) The RCC will evaluate to what extent a potential unfair competition practice affects public interest by considering the following criteria:  the high degree of social danger,  the importance or dimension of the economic sector concerned,  the number of undertakings involved in the practice,  the number of affected undertakings and  the duration of the unfair competition practice. If it considers that none of the above criteria have been met, the RCC will communicate to the author of the complaint its decision not to intervene because of a lack of public interest, within 45 calendar days from receiving a complaint that is deemed complete.

Fines under the GEO

Pursuant to the GEO, any acts of unfair competition affecting the public interest, including the abuse of SBP, are sanctioned as follows:

this can be seen as a significant reduction in the level of fines compared to the approach in the GEO's draft, which provided for a fine up to 1% of the infringer's total turnover in the financial year before the sanctioning decision;

the fine thresholds above also apply to undertakings committing speculative actions during times of crisis, with respect to products or services specifically designated by government decision, as further detailed above.with a fine between RON 50,000 (approx. EUR 10,000) and RON 500,000 (approx. EUR 100,000) for acts committed by undertakings;

with a fine between RON 5,500 (approx. EUR 1,100) and RON 11,000 (approx. EUR 2,200) for breaches by individuals.

Should an infringing party expressly acknowledge the breach within 30 calendar days (or seven calendar days with respect to speculative actions committed during times of crisis) of being presented with the RCC's conclusions on the case (following the authority's review of the matter), the competition authority may apply a 10%-20% reduction of the fine. The statute of limitation for applying the above fines is three years from the moment the breach is committed. In case of continued or repeated breaches, the statute of limitations will run from the last act of unfair competition.

Final remarks

The GEO follows the practice of other countries around the globe and within the European Union regarding the regulation and sanctioning of the unlawful behaviour of companies with superior market power, which nonetheless falls below the standard of dominance under competition law. As such, sanctioning the abuse of SBP could be perceived as somewhere between the enforcement of competition law and the rules against unfair commercial practices. In our case, however, the GEO clearly distinguishes the abuse of SBP as unfair competition behaviour, but its scrutiny is entrusted to the RCC, which will likely use its experience in sanctioning abuse of dominance in the process.

With the forthcoming entry into force of the GEO before the end of July 2022, large companies (more likely to be seen as holding a SBP) should further integrate the particular rules on SBP in their internal compliance policies and culture. This is particularly relevant as in addition to relatively high fines from the RCC for abusing an SBP, being sanctioned could also trigger reputational damage and risks of follow-on damages litigation (with the GEO expressly providing that a final RCC sanctioning decision represents proof before the courts dealing with damages cases that unfair competition law practices were carried out).

Moreover, the GEO introduces a welcome legal framework for the fight against speculators during times of crisis, such as the current soaring energy prices, partially fuelled by Russia's intervention in Ukraine. This will require, however, the adoption of further rules by the government, and its practical consequences and extent of enforcement remain difficult to anticipate at this stage.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Iustinian Captariu

Kinstellar

8 - 10 Nicolae Iorga

Bucharest

010434 Bucharest

ROMANIA

Tel: 221622 111

E-mail: Adela.Ene@kinstellar.com

URL: www.kinstellar.com[http://www.kinstellar.com]

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2022 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com[http://www.mondaq.com]

Mondaq Limited

文件 BBPUB00020220712ei7c0006d


Hungary's Orban defends 'cultural standpoint' in race remark row
462 字
2022 年 7 月 28 日 13:15 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Hungary's nationalist Prime Minister Viktor Orban on Thursday defended his comments against creating "peoples of mixed-race", saying they represented a "cultural" standpoint.

"It happens sometimes that I speak in a way that can be misunderstood... the position that I represent is a cultural... standpoint," Orban told reporters during a visit to neighbouring Austria.

Orban sparked a storm of criticism after he warned against mixing with "non-Europeans" in a speech in Romania's Transylvania region, home to a Hungarian community, on Saturday.

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer said in a joint press conference with Orban that the issue had been "resolved... amicably and in all clarity", adding his country "strongly condemned... any form of racism or anti-Semitism".

The International Auschwitz Committee has urged the European Union -- and Nehammer specifically -- to distance themselves from "Orban's racist undertones".

Austria is the first EU country to host Orban for talks since he won a fourth straight mandate in an April landslide.

Besides the race row, the two leaders discussed migration and energy security amid tensions over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Vienna sees itself "as an honest broker" and is anxious not to sideline Hungary, an Austrian official told AFP on condition of anonymity.

Jewish community representatives voiced alarm after Orban, an ultra-conservative known for his anti-migrant policy and virulent rhetoric, said that "we do not want to become peoples of mixed-race".

The 59-year-old also seemed to allude to the Nazi German gas chambers when criticising a Brussels plan to reduce European gas demand by 15 percent following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Hungary was the only EU member to oppose the plan, which passed on a majority vote this week.

An adviser to Orban, Zsuzsa Hegedus, resigned on Tuesday, slamming his speech as "a pure Nazi text".

In response, Orban stressed his government's "policy of zero tolerance when it comes to anti-Semitism and racism", according to a letter made public.

"I am proud of the results which Hungary achieved against racism in recent years," Orban told reporters on Wednesday.

Both Orban and Nehammer said they would not support any embargo on Russian gas, on which their countries are heavily dependant, with Orban describing any such embargo as a "wall".

"My advice to the European Union is not to hit this wall," said the Hungarian, who recently slammed the EU's sanction policy against Russia as "Europe shooting itself in the lungs".

He added that he wished Brussels would come up with a new "strategy that is good for the Ukrainians, good for us, good for the European economy and good for the households that have to pay the price of energy".

pmu-jza/kjm

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220728ei7s00a6p


President Iohannis reiterates call to determined and coordinated actions to eliminate energy dependence on Russia
627 字
2022 年 9 月 8 日 17:40 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Sept 8 /Agerpres/ - President Klaus Iohannis participated, on Thursday, at the invitation of his U.S. counterpart, Joseph R. Biden, in a new round of consultations in a restricted format with allied global leaders, in the context of the continuation of the military conflict triggered by the Russian Federation against Ukraine.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, UK Prime Minister Liz Truss and Poland President Andrzej Duda also participated in the discussions.

According to the Presidential Administration, this new round of transatlantic consultations took place in the context of the developments in the conflict zones in Ukraine and against the background of the progress of the discussions regarding the reconstruction of this country.

The leaders assessed the development of the hostilities and evaluated the comprehensive strategy of support for Ukraine, on all dimensions. In this context, the firm response measures adopted by the international community were emphasised, with reference to the extended sanction packages, to deter Russia, the cited source shows.

The 'worrying situation' at the Zaporizhia Nuclear Power Plant, as a result of the activity of the Russian military forces, was also addressed, elements highlighted including in the evaluation report published by the International Atomic Energy Agency on September 5.

Another topic addressed during the discussions concerned energy security and coordination in order to identify solutions for energy supply in the perspective of the winter season, simultaneously with reducing dependence on Russia and keeping prices under control.

The issue of global food security and measures to support the export of Ukrainian grain were also discussed. The leaders expressed their appreciation for the decisive role assumed by Romania.

The Presidential Administration also shows that President Klaus Iohannis emphasised, in his intervention, the opportunity to continue consultations in this format and the crucial importance of maintaining close coordination and allied and transatlantic unity, as well as with partners who share the same vision, in the regional context with an impact on Euro-Atlantic and global security.

'President Klaus Iohannis mentioned the complex steps undertaken by Romania in support of Ukraine, in political, logistical and humanitarian terms. Thus, he highlighted the measures adopted by Romania that facilitated the export of approximately 4 million tonnes of grain from Ukraine through the Danube and Constanta ports,' the Presidential Administration adds.

The head of state also stressed that, in addition to the consistent efforts Romania made in support of Ukraine, the facilitation of the entry into Romania of over 2.2 million Ukrainian citizens from the border, the hosting of refugees and the provision of safe transit through the national territory is added.

The Presidential Administration points out that President Iohannis also highlighted the wide impact of the current crisis on the security situation on the Eastern Flank of the Alliance, especially at the Black Sea, and underscored the importance of the rapid implementation of the decisions of the NATO Summit in Madrid.

Klaus Iohannis reiterated the call for 'determined and coordinated' actions to eliminate energy dependence on Russia, considering Moscow's strategy to use energy as a political tool of pressure and blackmail.

He also emphasised the need to support the efforts of the Republic of Moldova, politically and economically, for the management of Ukrainian refugees, but also in terms of energy security.

The consultations continue the line of allied and transatlantic coordination efforts and complement the discussions that took place in a similar format, in the context of the launch of the Russian invasion at the beginning of this year, concludes the Presidential Administration. AGERPRES (RO - author: Florentina Peia, editor: Catalin Alexandru; EN - editor: Adina Panaitescu)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220908ei98003jt


MP Tenita with IPAC backs joint action need against 'China's human rights' abuses'
455 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日 14:41 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, September 15 /Agerpres/ - Deputy Catalin Tenita, co-chair of the Romanian branch of the Inter-parliamentary Alliance on China (IPAC), said at a meeting of this group in Washington that the democratic world needs joint action 'to limit China's human rights' abuses'.

'After the invasion of Ukraine, we all understood that we could not live insular. And for several years now, it has become clear that at this moment China is not only the world's largest exporter in the economic sense, but is also beginning to export authoritarian, even totalitarian attitudes. China's promises in the international arena lose their credibility. The Hong Kong case is enlightening. It was promised 'one country, two systems', but in practice all the democratic forces were crushed, once with the exile of all dissident voices. We must understand that at this moment we need more than ever a common system of protection of human rights and democratic values, of founding principles,' Tenita said at the meeting held in the US this week, according to a release sent on Thursday to AGERPRES.

He added that Beijing gov't must align itself with internationally stated values regarding the rule of law and respect for human rights, within and outside its borders, to respect Taiwan's system of government, but also the democratic aspirations of Hong Kong residents, and to allow international investigation of allegations of abuses in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region.

According to the MP, democratic states are determined to react against any actions that represent violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, by excluding from the supply chains products manufactured through forced labour, sanctioning the perpetrators of abuses and acts of corruption by freezing their assets and travel bans (Magnitsky legislation), suspending extradition agreements and urgently reviewing judicial and police cooperation agreements.

'At the same time, IPAC lawmakers are determined to support the strengthening of economic exchanges between Taiwan and other democratic states and to work towards Taiwan's participation in the activities of international organizations such as WHO, ICAO, INTERPOL or UNFCCC,' Catalin Tenita added.

According to him, a joint declaration was adopted at the IPAC summit affirming support for Taiwan's democratic path, for the democratic aspirations of Hong Kong residents, for respect for human rights within the borders of the People's Republic of China and the investigation of allegations of abuses in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region. At the same time, it affirms the support for Ukraine and the decision to sanction the Chinese companies that provide Russia with military, logistics or other support in this illegal war.AGERPRES(RO - author: Iulia Carciog, editor: Claudia Stanescu; EN - editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220915ei9f002gx


LIBE Committee president says that EU measures against Russia are having an effect
437 字
2022 年 9 月 22 日 10:21 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, September 22 /Agerpres/ - The measures taken by the European Union to sanction Russia following the outbreak of the war in Ukraine have an effect, and a proof of this is the fact that Vladimir Putin 'starts to get things out of control in Russia', declared, on Thursday, in southeastern Isaccea, the president of the LIBE (Civil Liberties, Justice and Internal Affairs) Committee of the European Parliament, Juan Fernando López Aguilar.

Together with the MEPs Yana Toom, Estonia, and Thijs Reuten, the Netherlands, he visited, on Thursday morning, the border crossing point in Isaccea, to find out how the directive on temporary protection is implemented and how Ukrainian refugees are accommodated in Romania.

The pressure works, the sanctions have an effect. We're seeing this because Putin is starting to get out of hand in Russia, even though he's an autocrat, even though he's a tyrant and he's running the country like an autocrat and a tyrant. Despite this, the people no longer obeyed and rose up against him. There were many demonstrations on the streets of Russia, many people were detained and arrested. (...) It lasts. Nothing happens overnight. But things are moving forward and I am proud that the EU has remained firm and united in its positions. The EU affirmed its political will to intervene and act as a truly global actor. This is the direction that history demands of us, declared the president of the EP LIBE Committee, at the end of the meeting with the Romanian authorities held at the headquarters of the Coast Guard in Isaccea.

Juan Fernando López Aguilar appreciated the way in which Romania received the Ukrainian refugees and mentioned that the EP is preparing a new package of measures to support people seeking shelter in European countries.

He recalled that, for several years, the EP committee he leads requested the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area.

In our opinion, both Romania and Bulgaria meet these criteria necessary for belonging to the Schengen information system and the Schengen visa system. The criteria are met, but in terms of political will, I assure you that the Parliament and the LIBE Committee will not stop until when Romania and Bulgaria will finally be members, said Juan Fernando López Aguilar.

A delegation of the LIBE Committee visited Poland and Romania this week to assess the way in which refugees from Ukraine are received and the general implementation of the directive on temporary protection.AGERPRES(RO - author: Luisiana Bigea, editor: Marius Fratila; EN - editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020220922ei9m001e1


PM Ciuca: We must stay united and in solidarity, support Ukraine and prevent war expansion
323 字
2022 年 10 月 12 日 16:31 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Cincu, Oct 12 /Agerpres/ - Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuca declared on Wednesday, while on a visit to the 'Getica' National Joint Training Center in Cincu - Brasov County, that the 'unprovoked, illegal and premeditated' war of aggression against Ukraine is the most important threat to the allies since World War II, and emphasized the need for unity and solidarity in supporting Ukraine and preventing the expansion of the war.

'First of all, allow me to express my country's gratitude for the presence in Romania of the nearly 200 Dutch servicemen. Their efforts, together with their French, Belgian and Romanian colleagues, for building and operating the allied battle group are highly appreciated by Romanians. This contribution to NATO's deterrence and defense posture in Romania is extremely important, because it represents a clear proof to Russia that our alliance is solid, united and capable of defending its territory and values. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has irreversibly changed our relationship with Russia,' Ciuca declared in front of the Romanian, Dutch, Belgian and French troops deployed to the 'Getica' National Joint Training Center.

The Romanian Prime Minister said that the effects of Russia's war extend both to neighboring allied countries and to vulnerable states and that the lesson learned is that aggression has significant negative effects on the European Union and NATO.

'We adopted a firm and determined position towards Russia, aiming to internationally isolate it by supporting tough sanctions and ensuring that they are implemented, advocating wider support from democracies worldwide. Romania supported all the EU sanction packages, including the most recent one, the eighth,' Nicolae Ionel Ciuca said.

Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuca visited on Wednesday the 'Getica' National Joint Training Center in Cincu together with President of Romania Klaus Iohannis and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte. AGERPRES (RO - author: Dorina Matis, editor: Antonia Nita; EN - editor: Simona Klodnischi)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020221012eiac004h5


European Court of Human Rights judgment: CASE OF RUSU v. ROMANIA
2525 字
2022 年 10 月 12 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Brussels: European Court of Human Rights has issued the following judgment on (01 March 2022):

FOURTH SECTION

CASE OF RUSU v. ROMANIA

(Application no. 68373/14)

JUDGMENT STRASBOURG

1 March 2022

This judgment is final but it may be subject to editorial revision.

In the case of Rusu v. Romania, The European Court of Human Rights (Fourth Section), sitting as a Committee composed of:

Gabriele Kucsko-Stadlmayer, President, Iulia Antoanella Motoc, Pere Pastor Vilanova, judges, and Ilse Freiwirth, Deputy Section Registrar, Having regard to:

the application (no. 68373/14) against Romania lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ("the Convention") on 2 October 2014 by a Romanian national, Ms Cristina Rusu, born in 1973 and living in Tîrlișua ("the applicant") who was represented by Ms M.C. Moldovan, a lawyer practising in Bistrița-Năsăud;

the decision to give notice of the complaint under Article 10 (right to freedom of expression) to the Romanian Government ("the Government"), represented by their Agents, most recently by Ms O. Ezer, of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and to declare inadmissible the remainder of the application;

the parties' observations;

the decision to dismiss the Government's objection to examination of the application by a Committee;

Having deliberated in private on 8 February 2022, Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date:

SUBJECT-MATTER OF THE CASE

1. The applicant alleged that by failing to provide relevant and sufficient reasons for their decisions the national courts had violated her right to freedom of expression.

2. On 14 July and 23 October 2011 and 6 March 2012 the applicant discussed issues connected to the activity of the local Inspector of Schools for geography ("the inspector") in her capacity as high school geography teacher, respectively, in two articles published on the websites of the local newspapers Bistriţeanul.ro and Bistriţa24.ro and on the local television talk‑show "Bistriţa in reality".

3. The inspector brought civil proceedings against the applicant for damaging her reputation, seeking compensation and the publication of the judgment in a national newspaper.

4. On 18 June 2013 the Bistriţa-Năsăud District Court ("the District Court") allowed the claim in part. It awarded the inspector RON 2,000 (EUR 446) in respect of non-pecuniary damage by taking into account the applicant's attitude, the inspector's profession and the Court's case-law, but refused the judgment's publication because it could undermine the authority the two teachers had to enjoy in relation to students.

5. It held that on 14 July the applicant had concluded that the inspector should have taken responsibility for the disinformation concerning the May 2011 Geography Scientific Communications competition and its deficient organisation "because things had been much worse" than described. Her conclusion followed the statements that "the efficiency of the system of education was questioned" and that the teachers had been blamed that "they wallowed in the mud which wrapped up, in some ways, [the system of] education" and her opinion on organisational matters concerning the competition and the circuit of documents within the local inspectorate.

6. On 23 October the applicant had suggested that by handing out a certain diploma during a geography symposium the inspector had participated in "pilferage" and had aimed "to take advantage of someone's work". She also stated that "madam inspector considered that working on other diplomas was unnecessary" being "easier to take something that was ready, than making our mind work".

7. On 6 March the inspector's name was mentioned during a discussion about plagiarism concerning the test subjects for the geography Olympiad even though the local Deputy Inspector for Schools ("the DIP") specified during that discussion that the rules for the competition had been observed.

8. Concomitantly with her press statements the applicant had filed petitions with the local inspectorate blaming the inspector for irregularities in the organisation of the inspectorate or of the competitions. A former local DIP testified that these petitions had been mostly unfounded and the statement of a grader for the May 2011 competition had shown that the applicant's allegations about the organisation of this competition had been unfounded.

9. The allegations about the fraudulent printing of the diplomas given at the symposium had likewise been unfounded given that the previous year participants had received similar diplomas and the applicant had not proven that intellectual property legislation had been breached.

10. The applicant's statements had affected the inspector's image in the students' and the public's eyes and her career given that her work was used to illustrate the alleged "mud which wraps up ... [the system of] education".

11. Even assuming that her campaign had sought only to fix certain alleged irregularities, the applicant should have foreseen that the means used would affect the inspector's reputation. The penalty imposed could not breach Article 10 of the Convention given that the defamatory statements' subject - namely the rules for organising the communications session, the design of the diplomas and the test subjects for the Olympiad - could not be considered of general interest.

12. In her appeal against the judgment the applicant argued that her statements' subject had been of general interest and that the District Court had ignored the evidence and had failed to provide sufficient reasons for its judgment.

13. On 3 April 2014 the Bistriţa-Năsăud County Court dismissed the appeal and awarded the inspector RON 1,200 (EUR 267) in respect of costs and expenses. Reiterating the statements and actions noted by the District Court (paragraphs 5-8 above), the court considered that the applicant's actions had constituted a defamatory campaign against the inspector and that the District Court had assessed the evidence correctly. Each of the competitions' organisation, albeit not meeting the highest standards as per the applicant's wishes, had complied with the applicable rules and the replies to her petitions had had to follow a certain administrative path.

THE COURT'S ASSESSMENT ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 10 OF THE CONVENTION

14. The applicant complained that the courts had failed to provide relevant and sufficient reasons for their decisions and had therefore violated her right to freedom of expression.

15. The complaint is not manifestly ill-founded within the meaning of Article 35 § 3 (a) of the Convention or inadmissible on any other grounds. It must therefore be declared admissible.

16. The Court notes that the courts' sentence constituted an interference with the applicant's right to freedom of expression. The interference was lawful and served the protection of the rights and reputation of the inspector. The issue is, therefore, whether it had been "necessary in a democratic society".

17. The Court reiterates the general principles for assessing the necessity of an interference with the exercise of freedom of expression in the interest of the "protection of the reputation or rights of others" (see Axel Springer AG v. Germany [GC], no. 39954/08, §§ 78-95, 7 February 2012), including in circumstances involving civil servants or teachers in particular (Mamère v. France, no. 12697/03, § 27, ECHR 2006‑XIII; Ferihumer v. Austria, no. 30547/03, § 24, 1 February 2007; Fedchenko v. Russia (no. 2), no. 48195/06, § 35, 11 February 2010; Mahi v. Belgium (dec.), no. 57462/19, §§ 30-32, 7 July 2020; and Balaskas v. Greece, no. 73087/17, §§ 36-39, 42, 47‑48, 56 and 61, 5 November 2020).

18. The applicant's statements in issue concerned matters connected to the organisation of public competitions for high-school students and the performance of a public official's duties. They ultimately sought to raise awareness about deficiencies in the education system and the conduct of the highest local public officials responsible for this field. These statements, albeit attaining the requisite level of seriousness capable of undermining the inspector's rights under Article 8 of the Convention, concerned therefore a subject of general interest (see Fedchenko, cited above, §§ 36 and 56). Nevertheless, the national courts construed the applicant's statements rather narrowly and did not regard the issues raised by her as contributing to a subject of general interest.

19. It is true that the applicant was bound by special duties and responsibilities incumbent on teachers, applicable also to a certain extent to her activities outside of school, and that as a public servant the inspector enjoyed certain protection as far as the limits of acceptable criticism were concerned.

20. Nonetheless, the applicant's media actions were accompanied by or followed apparent unsuccessful attempts of bringing the aspects she considered deficient in the competitions' organisation to the inspector's or the inspectorate's attention and sought to criticise these deficiencies and to bring about some change. It is not in dispute between the parties that the inspector played an important role in the organisation of the competitions and that she had received media attention in connection with the performance of her duties before these events.

21. The Court reiterates that effective criticism is impossible without reference to specific persons and that having agreed to hold that office, the inspector must have been prepared to tolerate a significant amount of public criticism (see Fedchenko, cited above, § 59) and therefore show a correspondingly high degree of tolerance.

22. The courts did not explicitly address these points (see paragraphs 19-21 above) or consider the extent to which the protection which could be afforded to the applicant or the inspector was influenced by their capacity as public servants and their prior conduct.

23. Moreover, even though the courts considered the impugned statements unfounded given the available evidence, they failed to consider whether they were value judgments or statements of fact. Such an approach is incompatible in itself with the principles emerging from Article 10 (see Gheorghe-Florin Popescu v. Romania, no. 79671/13, § 32, 12 January 2021).

24. Even if viewed as a combination of value judgments and statements of fact, the Court notes that the statements were made in circumstances where some petitions filed by the applicant with the inspectorate were well-founded, the inspector had acknowledged using the design of the diplomas prepared by the applicant without any warning or acknowledgement given to her and that the test subject of the local Olympiad was identical to the one prepared by different examiners in another county.

25. The Court therefore cannot accept that the impugned statements were made frivolously or lacking a sufficient factual basis. Albeit perhaps polemical, in the absence of manifestly insulting language in the remarks made therein, the statements remained within the limits of admissible exaggeration or even provocations afforded to any individual who takes part in a public debate of general concern (see Mamère, cited above, § 25, and Makraduli v. the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, nos. 64659/11 and 24133/13, § 79, 19 July 2018).

26. Absent of details provided by the courts in this connection, the Court cannot discern any specific negative impact or effects the applicant's media actions had for the inspector's professional life. Assuming that they had some effect, the Court seriously doubts that these effects were sufficiently serious to override the public's interest in receiving the information in question.

27. Given the chilling effect that a fear of sanction may have on the exercise of freedom of expression (see Wille v. Liechtenstein [GC], no. 28396/95, § 50, ECHR 1999-VII, and Nikula v. Finland, no. 31611/96, § 54, ECHR 2002-II), and that the applicant proved that the penalty imposed on her exceeded her monthly income, the Court is of the view that this penalty was capable of having a dissuasive effect on the exercise of her right to freedom of expression (see Lombardo and Others v. Malta, no. 7333/06, § 61, 24 April 2007, and Ghiulfer Predescu v. Romania, no. 29751/09, § 61, 27 June 2017).

28. In the light of the above considerations, in particular the fact that the domestic courts did not duly weigh the interests at stake in accordance with the criteria established in its case-law, the Court finds that the interference with the applicant's right to freedom of expression was not "necessary in a democratic society".

29. There has accordingly been a violation of Article 10 of the Convention.

APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 41 OF THE CONVENTION

30. The applicant claimed RON 7,100 (EUR 1,492) in respect of pecuniary damage (amount she allegedly had to pay, directly or indirectly, following the judgment of 3 April 2014) and EUR 4,000 in respect of costs incurred before the Court. She left the amount in respect of non-pecuniary damage to the Court's discretion.

31. The Government argued that the amounts claimed by the applicant in respect of pecuniary damage and costs and expenses were unsubstantiated. In addition, the mere finding of a violation would constitute sufficient just satisfaction in respect of non-pecuniary damages.

32. The Court notes a clear link between the sentence imposed on the applicant and the amount claimed in respect of pecuniary damage. Having regard to the available evidence, finds it reasonable to award the applicant EUR 1,000, plus any tax that may be chargeable, in this respect. As to the claim in respect of non-pecuniary damage, the mere finding of a violation is insufficient to compensate for the frustration the applicant must have felt because of the sentence imposed on her. The Court therefore awards the applicant EUR 7,500, plus any tax that may be chargeable, in this respect. It also considers it reasonable to award her EUR 500 covering costs for the proceedings before the Court, plus any tax that may be chargeable.

33. The Court further considers it appropriate that the default interest rate should be based on the marginal lending rate of the European Central Bank, to which should be added three percentage points.

FOR THESE REASONS, THE COURT, UNANIMOUSLY, Declares the application admissible;

Holds that there has been a violation of Article 10 of the Convention;

Holds (a) that the respondent State is to pay the applicant, within three months, the following amounts, to be converted into the currency of the respondent State at the rate applicable at the date of settlement:

(i) EUR 1,000 (one thousand euros), plus any tax that may be chargeable, in respect of pecuniary damage;

(ii) EUR 7,500 (seven thousand five hundred euros), plus any tax that may be chargeable, in respect of non-pecuniary damage;

(iii) EUR 500 (five hundred euros), plus any tax that may be chargeable to the applicant, in respect of costs and expenses;

(b) that from the expiry of the above-mentioned three months until settlement simple interest shall be payable on the above amounts at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the European Central Bank during the default period plus three percentage points;

Dismisses the remainder of the applicant's claim for just satisfaction.

Done in English, and notified in writing on 1 March 2022, pursuant to Rule 77 §§ 2 and 3 of the Rules of Court.

Ilse Freiwirth Gabriele Kucsko-Stadlmayer Deputy Registrar President

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020221013eiac000dd


Highlights: Georgian Media 27 Oct 22
558 字
2022 年 10 月 27 日 10:44 GMT
BBC Monitoring Caucasus
BBCCAU
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

Georgian commentators' views on the upcoming Nato ministerial in Bucharest and Ukraine's sanctions imposed on close relatives of ruling Georgian Dream party founder billionaire PM Bidzina Ivanishvili are the major stories covered by Georgian newspapers on 27 Oct 2022:

Upcoming Nato ministerial in Bucharest

In a front-page story headlined "What historical decisions Nato can be preparing for - what did the alliance invite Georgia, Ukraine, and Moldova to Bucharest summit for", daily Rezonansi writes that Nato is planning to host a summit of foreign ministers in Bucharest on 29-30 November and that Georgia, Ukraine, and Moldova are invited to attend it.

"Analysts describe the planned meeting as historical and say that against the backdrop of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a new formula could be worked out for those countries that want to join the alliance," Rezonansi says in its front-page teaser.

Military commentator Vakhtang Maisaia speculates that the alliance may propose to set up a regional alliance involving Georgia, Moldova, and Ukraine, to contain "Russian military aggression".

"This summit also has political overtones, because it is a response to the Russian aggression at the time, when the Balkan, Caucasus, and Eastern European countries are adapting to the situation under the aegis of Nato. It is first and foremost directed against Russia. Its weakness will be pointed out to show that there is no hegemony in this area," Maisaia tells the paper.

Rezonansi also carries a report on the Nato's Baltic Tiger 2022 exercises underway in Estonia with the involvement of German and Estonian servicemen. The goal of the exercises is to protect critical infrastructure. "Nato started to reinforce its Eastern flank after Russia lunched a full-scale war [in Ukraine]," the report says.

The article also elaborates on the Russian claims that Ukraine intends to use a "dirty bomb" and quotes US Secretary of State Antony Blinken as rapping the Russian claim as an "obviously false accusation".

Rezonansi also extensively covers the recent developments around the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

In a front-page story headlined "Nuclear games - culmination and stern warning from Biden - The Kremlin launches exercises", Rezonansi reports on the Grom (Thunder) 2022 exercises launched by Russia.

The report notes that although there is no immediate threat that nuclear weapons will be used, everything depends on how the war proceeds in Ukraine and that the tougher it gets for Russia, the chances are higher that the nuclear weapons be used.

Analyst Korneli Kakachia is quoted as saying that Russian President Vladimir Putin burnt all bridges, placing all his bets on Ukraine and the only remaining way will be tactical [nuclear] weapons.

Ukraine sanctions relatives of Georgian billionaire ex-PM

Sakartvelos Respublika takes a stand against Ukraine's decision to sanction close relatives of Bidzina Ivanishvili, the billionaire founder of Georgia's ruling party and a former prime minister.

(See also: Briefing: Ukraine sanctions relatives of Georgian billionaire ex-PM)

The report headlined "My friend Volodymyr [Zelensky], with such injustice, you insult Ukraine itself carries disapproval by pro-government commentators Ramaz Saqvarelidze and Zaal Anjaparidze of the move by Ukraine.

In another story headlined "Senseless and hostile sanctions from Zelensky", the paper says that Ukraine's "unfriendly" decision was taken painfully in Tbilisi.

Source: Highlights from Georgian media in English 27 Oct 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCCAU0020221027eiar0005l


CE Noticias Financieras English
Ukraine - Russia war, live | Letter bomb sent to the Ukrainian Embassy in Madrid contained pyrotechnic elements
10439 字
2022 年 11 月 30 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Narration update 20:00 ???? WAR IN EUROPE : The envelope that arrived at the Ukrainian embassy contained a homemade explosive An employee of the Ukrainian Embassy in Madrid has been slightly injured after the explosion of a device in the diplomatic delegation and has been transferred, in principle with a minor condition, to the hospital Nuestra Señora de América of the capital. The envelope, according to police sources, was addressed to the ambassador, Serhii Pohoreltsev, but was not passed through the scanner, but was opened by the security guard in the embassy garden, who was injured. It was a homemade explosive, according to police sources. 19:52 Odessa City Council votes to remove the statue of Russian Empress Catherine II Odessa City Council voted Wednesday to remove and relocate the statue of Russian Empress Catherine II, which in recent months had been vandalized several times, and which Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelensky had already proposed to demolish.

The statue, located in the center of the small Ekaterininskaya Square, is part of a monument in which there are other smaller sculptures of those considered founders of the city, such as Joseph of Ribas or Grigory Potemkin. During the last months, the monument was protected under a seven-meter high fence because it had been vandalized on several occasions, throwing red paint on it or dressing the sculpture of Catherine II with an executioner's cap and placing a rope in one of its hands. 19:42 Ukraine says it has recovered weapons and cash from properties of a pro-Kremlin politician Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) officials on Wednesday found Russian weapons and cash after searching properties around Kyiv linked to a pro-Russian ex-politician. An SBU statement said the raids of homes and offices belonging to Yevhen Murayev, who was said to be "hiding from justice abroad," and his associates are part of a criminal investigation for treason. Murayev's political party and a television channel under his control were seen as vehicles for Kremlin interests in Ukraine prior to Moscow's invasion on February 24. The party, Nashi, was banned after Russian forces invaded Ukraine. 19:32 Scholz says Ukraine is achieving a "successful defense" against Russia German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has expressed optimism about the progress of the war in Ukraine thanks to international support for the Kyiv government and today advocated a "successful defense" by the Ukrainian armed forces. The international community is "succeeding" in curbing the "neo-imperialism" of Russian President Vladimir Putin, he assured Wednesday at the forum of the Berlin Security Conference. "We are doing well," he asserted and stressed that Russia must understand that the West will continue to support Ukraine "as long as it takes." The German Army is set to train a Ukrainian brigade of up to 5,000 soldiers with support from the European Union. 19:21 Portugal to deliver €1 million in non-lethal aid to Ukraine Portugal will provide €1 million in funding for a NATO package of non-lethal support to Ukraine, which will partly cover the war-torn country's energy needs. Portuguese Foreign Minister João Gomes Cravinho told the media on Wednesday that "Portugal is going to give an extraordinary contribution for the comprehensive assistance package, which is a NATO package for non-lethal support and, therefore, will also be dedicated to restoring Ukraine's energy capacity." Also, Portugal "is constantly reviewing its possibilities and throughout the war we will strengthen our military support," he added. 19:10 Zelenski invites Elon Musk to Ukraine to see the devastation wrought by Russia Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelenski on Wednesday invited Elon Musk to visit Ukraine and see the devastation wrought by Russia, after the Twitter owner floated the idea of a peace deal that would give major concessions to President Vladimir Putin. After the invasion, Musk played a key role in restoring internet service in Ukraine, Zelenski said today at the New York Times Dealbook conference, adding that "life had been sustained" thanks to the deployment of his Starlink satellite communications system. As Zelenski has commented, "some time later, it seems like Elon started to change his mind and we started to hear all kinds of appeals." "I have always openly said that if Musk wants to understand what Russia has done here, let him come to Ukraine and see this with his own eyes without additional words," Zelenski has stated at the conference. 19:00 Russia rises up against the Pope for saying that the "cruelest" are the Chechens and Buryats, reports La Vanguardia's Vatican City correspondent Anna Buj. Pope Francis has infuriated Moscow with his statements in his latest interview, where he has clearly condemned Russia as the aggressor state in the Ukrainian war and has assured that "generally the cruelest are perhaps the peoples who are of Russia, but are not of the Russian tradition", giving as an example the Chechens and Buryats as the greatest criminals of the conflict. These words did not sit well in Moscow, especially those referring to the Chechens and Buryats, belonging to eastern Siberia and among the most recruited by the Russian Army. According to the spokeswoman of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Maria Zakharova, Francis' comments not only demonstrate his "Russophobia", but also a "scandalous perversion of the truth". 18:50 U.S . puts NATO arms aid to Ukraine at almost 40 billion euros U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has put NATO arms aid to Ukraine since the start of the war at $40 billion, or 38.7 billion euros, and has promised even more to prevent President Vladimir Putin from "holding the rest of the world hostage". Blinken, speaking at a meeting of NATO foreign ministers in Bucharest, pledged that "we will strengthen our security, humanitarian and economic support to Ukraine. NATO allies have already provided Ukraine with $40 billion worth of weapons, and more are on the way." Blinken has put a premium on Washington's efforts to help Ukraine in this war and thanked the European Union for the ninth package of sanctions it is preparing to make the war more expensive for the Kremlin. 18:37 U.S. fears Russia could use biological weapons in Ukraine war The war in Ukraine has heightened U.S. concern that Russia could use biological weapons, according to a senior U.S. State Department official in Geneva to review the global treaty addressing such threats. "We have always been concerned about their own biological program," Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security Bonnie Jenkins has said from the U.S. Mission in Geneva. Concerns have been growing as Russia has continued to act unfounded about U.S. development of biological weapons in Ukraine. This disinformation could conceal Russia's own use of infectious diseases as weapons, he has asserted. "As long as they continue with the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, staying there and doing what they are doing and making these accusations, there is always the possibility that they have been using" disinformation to cover it up, he has added. 18:25 ???? The letter bomb sent to the Ukrainian Embassy in Madrid contained pyrotechnics elements The explosive letter that this Wednesday has arrived at the Ukrainian Embassy in Madrid and has caused minor injuries in a hand to a worker contained inside pyrotechnics elements, according to police sources after the preliminary analysis of the detonating substance. The deflagration occurred when the worker, of Ukrainian nationality, was handling the envelope in a garden area of the legation located in Ronda Abubilla street, number 52, in the district of Hortaleza, Madrid. The letter was addressed to the ambassador, Sergei Pohoreltsev. The missive has arrived by ordinary mail from the usual letter carrier and did not pass the scanner before it was opened by the security operator in charge of it. 18:13 EU seeks specialized court to investigate crimes Russia's war crimes The European Union on Wednesday proposed setting up a UN-backed tribunal to be able to investigate possible war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine so that frozen Russian assets can be used to rebuild the war-torn country. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the EU would work with international partners to obtain "the broadest possible international support" for the tribunal, while continuing to support the International Criminal Court. In the face of Russia's non-acceptance of the ICC's jurisdiction, the European Commission has presented the 27 EU countries with two options for holding the Kremlin to account: a "special independent international court based on a multilateral treaty or a specialized court integrated into a national justice system with international judges: a hybrid court." 18:01 NATO warns that the urgent thing is to help Kyiv subsist to deal with its membership NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Wednesday that the most "immediate and urgent" thing is to help Ukraine "prevail" as a democratic and independent country in the face of Russian aggression, because otherwise the question of its membership in the Alliance cannot be addressed. "The most immediate and urgent task is to ensure that Ukraine prevails as a democratic, sovereign and independent nation in Europe, and to that end we must mobilize everything we can in terms of military, economic, financial and humanitarian support for Ukraine," Stoltenberg told a press conference at the end of a two-day meeting of allied foreign ministers. Asked if he did not believe that Ukraine has "earned" NATO membership in view of the defense of its values it is making at the gates of the Alliance, the Norwegian politician stressed that, "if Ukraine does not assert itself as an independent sovereign state, then, of course, the question of membership is not on the table at all." 17:50 Albares contacts the Ukrainian ambassador and Dmitro Kuleba Foreign Minister José Manuel Albares had a telephone conversation with his Ukrainian counterpart Dimitro Kuleba and the Ukrainian ambassador to Spain, Sergei Pohoreltsev, after it became known that an employee of the Embassy in Madrid was injured by the explosion of a letter bomb. Albares called Pohoreltsev from Romania, where he attended the NATO ministerial meeting, to "inquire about the state of health of the Ukrainian worker injured in the attack" that took place at midday, the sources said. The ambassador confirmed to the minister that the letter bomb that exploded was addressed to him. He also contacted by telephone Kuleba, with whom he had met the day before in Bucharest, to whom he conveyed "his support and solidarity", a gesture for which the Ukrainian was grateful. 17:39 Moldova fears another blackout Moldova fears more power outages in the coming days, like the ones it has suffered twice, in October and November, as a result of Russian shelling of the Ukrainian energy infrastructure. When this happens, the high-voltage line coming from Romania is disconnected for safety. This line starts from Isaccea and runs through southern Ukraine to Cuciurgan, in the breakaway republic of Transnistria - the post-Soviet conflict frozen since 1992 - to enter Moldovan territory. 17:27 UN Human Rights chief to pay 4-day visit to Ukraine UN Human Rights chief Volker Turk will start a four-day visit to Ukraine on Sunday where he will not only visit Kyiv, but also other cities such as Kharkov, Izium and Uzhgorod, his office said Wednesday. Turk has been invited by the government of Volodymir Zelenski and expects to meet with both national and local leaders, as well as members of civil society and victims' groups. The High Commissioner estimates the number of civilians killed since the beginning of the war at some 6,600. The list of wounded already exceeds 10,000. 17:15 Lavrov maintains that any armed conflict between nuclear powers must be avoided The Russian Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov, has assured on Wednesday that for Moscow a nuclear war is inadmissible, but above all he has affirmed that it is essential to avoid any armed confrontation, even with conventional weapons, between nuclear powers. "An escalation could be uncontrollable," he warned. According to Lavrov, "Western colleagues" are trying to evade the part of this formula that refers to conventional weaponry. "This one speaks volumes, in particular, in their policies towards Ukraine, which they literally push to continue the war waged by the West against Russia," he said in his speech, published on the Foreign Ministry website. 17:04 Russian Defense Ministry believes Russia should use advanced weapons in Ukraine Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Wednesday that the Russian armed forces should use new advanced weapons systems in the Ukrainian conflict. "It is necessary to continue modernization and creation of promising systems with their further use during the special military operation," Shoigu has assured a meeting of top generals of the Defense Ministry. However, Shoigu has not specified which advanced weapons should be used, although he has said he wants to discuss with the generals new ways of improving artillery and missile strikes. 16:53 The envelope that has arrived at the Ukrainian embassy contained a homemade explosive, reports Conchi Lafraya. An employee of the Ukrainian Embassy in Madrid has been slightly injured after the explosion of an explosive device in the diplomatic delegation and has been transferred, in principle with minor injuries, to the hospital Nuestra Señora de América in the capital, police sources have reported. He was taken on foot to the hospital and has already been discharged. The events occurred at about 13 hours on Wednesday when the National Police received notice of a deflagration in the embassy. The envelope, according to police sources, was addressed to the ambassador, Serhii Pohoreltsev, but was not passed through the scanner, but was opened by the security guard in the garden of the embassy, who was injured. It was a homemade explosive, according to police sources. 16:41 UK sanctions senior Russian officials responsible for recruitment The UK has announced on Wednesday a package of 22 new sanctions against Russian Deputy Prime Minister for Industry and Trade, Denis Manturov, among other senior Russian officials and politicians listing them as responsible for the campaign to recruit soldiers to fight in the Ukrainian war. The British Foreign Office has indicated in a statement that Manturov is responsible for supervising the Russian arms industry and providing equipment for the mobilized troops. The governors of the republics of Dagestan, Ingushetia and Kalmukia, which London describes as some of Russia's poorest regions and where "significant numbers" of soldiers have been recruited, have also been sanctioned. Also on the list are the head of Russia's Federal Penitentiary Service, Arkady Gostev, the chairwoman of Russia's Central Election Commission, Ella Pamfilova, and the head of the Rostov election commission. 16:30 Russia claims to have seized another town south of Bakhmut, Donetsk region The Russian Army has claimed Wednesday that it has seized the town of Andriivka, located ten kilometers south of the strategic town of Bakhmut, Donetsk region and which it has been trying to seize since the beginning of the war. "As a result of the offensive of the Russian forces the locality of Andriivka in the Donetsk People's Republic was completely liberated," reported the defense spokesman, Major General Igor Konashenkov. Konashenkov also said that the offensive also continues in the locality of Vodianoe, six kilometers south of Avdivivka. On Wednesday Russia also reported that it has established control over other localities, Belohirivka and Pershne Travna, in the same region. 16:20 Poland insists on placing the Patriot anti-missile system on the Ukrainian border Poland's Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak on Wednesday before the Assembly defended the placement of the Patriot anti-missile system on Ukraine's western border as a measure to protect Polish territory, where two Ukrainian missiles recently hit, killing two people. "To effectively protect eastern Poland, it would be better if Patriot missiles were placed in western Ukraine. This is the best defense for our country from the military point of view," Blaschak has said, PAP agency tells. 16:08 Albares: "We would like China to be a partner in bringing peace to Ukraine" Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares said Wednesday in Bucharest that he would like China "to be a partner in bringing peace to Ukraine" .to bring peace to Ukraine" and noted that Beijing "can play a role in moderating" Russian President Vladimir Putin. "You have to decide how to relate to China and the decision of when it is a competitor and when it can be a partner. Clearly, we would like it to be a partner to bring peace to Ukraine, interlocution with Putin," Albares stated during a meeting with the media. The Spanish politician made this statement after the meeting of NATO foreign ministers that concluded today in Bucharest and in which the relationship with China was discussed. He indicated that many ministers "emphasized" the link between China and Russia "from a double facet". 15:57 Ukraine tightens security at all its embassies after Madrid explosion Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dimitro Kuleba has ordered to tighten security at all diplomatic representations abroad after the explosion of a letter bomb at the Embassy in Madrid, in which an employee was slightly injured. A spokesman for the Ukrainian Ministry, Oleg Nikolenko, confirmed the incident in a statement, stressing that the life of the injured worker is not in danger. Kuleba urged his Spanish counterpart, José Manuel Albares, to take "urgent" measures to clarify the attack, although he stressed that security forces have already been deployed in the area. The Ukrainian minister has also warned that such attacks or threats will not serve to intimidate diplomatic staff abroad or stop their daily work to combat Russian aggression. 15:48 Oleksandra Romantsova: "If Putin wins as an autocrat, his strategy will be more popular " World fame has come to the Ukrainian organization Center for Civil Liberties (CCL) since it was awarded the 2022 Nobel Peace Prize in October alongside the Russian NGO Memorial and imprisoned Belarusian activist Alés Bialiatski. Its executive director, Oleksandra Romantsova, spoke to La Vanguardia during a forum on her country organized by the international platform CivilM+ this week in Berlin. Economist Romantsova (Mikolaiv, 1985) left her job in banking in 2014 to work full-time at CCL, which documents Russian war crimes in Ukraine. Maria-Paz Lopez, La Vanguardia correspondent in Berlin, reports. 15:40 Russia warns EU of retaliatory measures if it confiscates frozen assets Russia today warned the European Union (EU) of retaliatory measures if it confiscates Russian assets that have been frozen by EU sanctions imposed on it for its military campaign in Ukraine and uses them for the country's reconstruction. "We warn once again that if it comes to actual confiscation of the property of Russian citizens, enterprises, state reserves of our country, appropriate measures will inevitably be taken by Russia," foreign spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at her weekly press briefing. She declined to advance whether the measures would be symmetrical or asymmetrical, but assured that they would be "reciprocal and real" and "not lip service." 15:31 U.S. says to continue supporting Kyiv to be able to dialogue with Russia U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday in Bucharest defended the need to continue supporting Ukraine to be able to start at some point a dialogue with Moscow, and warned that the attacks on civilians by the Russian army show that today Russian President Vladimir Putin is not interested in the diplomatic way. "We agree with (Ukrainian President (Volodymir) Zelensky that diplomacy is ultimately the only way to put a definitive end to Russia's war of aggression," Blinken told a press conference today after the NATO foreign ministers' meeting that concluded today in Bucharest. However, he considered that "Russia's savage attacks on Ukrainian civilians are the latest demonstration that President Putin currently has no interest in genuine diplomacy," and opined that he might try to force Ukraine into a frozen conflict and attack again later. 15:23 The National Court takes over the investigation of the explosion at the Ukrainian Embassy Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu has assured on Wednesday that more than 300,000 army troops have been trained in the framework of the partial mobilization announced by Russian President Vladimir Putin last September in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine. Thus, he clarified that many of them are volunteers and reservists and added that some 8,000 people have received training to "handle combat vehicles and tanks, as well as artillery and anti-aircraft defense systems" in the training centers set up by the Armed Forces. As he explained, some 3,000 instructors have been involved in these combat training tasks for "new military formations" in more than a hundred training camps distributed between Russia and Belarus. 15:15 Kuleba: "NATO should prevent, instead of reacting to new "tragedies" Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba today stressed that NATO countries should "change the logic" in their decision-making and speed up the delivery of anti-aircraft defense systems, battle tanks and armored vehicles to prevent new "tragedies" in Ukraine. "The logic of decision-making must change," said the minister, who added: "Decisions must be made before tragedies occur, not to respond to those tragedies." Kuleba said that since the beginning of the war, his NATO allies have increased military supply in response to new crimes being committed by Russia, and claimed the need for them to take the initiative to prevent further Russian escalations. 15:06 Brussels opens the way to use assets frozen from Moscow and Russian oligarchs for Ukraine's benefit The European Commission will today approve a two-pronged plan to make Russia pay for its "horrendous crimes", both from an economic and justice point of view, its president, Ursula von der Leyen, announced this morning. "We have the means to do so," she says. Beatriz Navarro, correspondent of La Vanguardia in Brussels, reports. 14:57 Kuleba to Germany: Ukraine is ready to operate its Patriot missiles Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba today called on the German government to allow Poland to deploy Patriot anti-aircraft defense systems in western Ukraine, and insisted that Kyiv is ready to use them to protect its power grid from Russian attacks. Kuleba also stressed that it is "a purely defensive system," so the transfer of the Patriots would not mean an escalation of the conflict with Russia by a NATO member country like Germany. In the minister's opinion, the transfer of these systems should not pose a problem "if Germany is ready to supply the Patriots to Poland and Poland has nothing against handing them over" to Ukraine. 14:48 Ukraine calls for support in the face of energy shortages and to protect infrastructure Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba stressed at his meeting with his G7 counterparts and other partner countries in Bucharest the need to support Ukraine in facing electricity shortages, as well as to protect the energy infrastructure from Russian shelling. "The first option is to buy electricity from the EU. But prices on the EU market are significantly higher than in Ukraine, so additional financial assistance will be needed," Kuleba said, according to the statement released today by the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry, quoted by Ukrinform. The second, he added, "is to provide Ukraine with the necessary energy equipment, transformers and generators, which will help to compensate for the damaged energy infrastructure." In this context, Kuleba thanked the United States for the $53 million received by Ukraine for the urgent purchase of energy equipment. 14:40 NATO says urgent task is to help Kyiv subsist to deal with accession NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Wednesday that the most "immediate and urgent" task is to help Ukraine "prevail" as a democratic and independent country in the face of Russian aggression, because otherwise the question of its accession to the Alliance cannot be addressed. "The most immediate and urgent task is to ensure that Ukraine prevails as a democratic, sovereign and independent nation in Europe, and to that end we must mobilize everything we can in terms of military, economic, financial and humanitarian support for Ukraine," Stoltenberg told a press conference at the end of a two-day meeting of allied foreign ministers. Asked if he did not believe that Ukraine has "earned" NATO membership in view of the defense of its values it is making at the Alliance's doorstep, the Norwegian politician stressed that, "if Ukraine does not assert itself as an independent sovereign state, then, of course, the question of membership is not on the table at all." 14:32 Russia to deploy new missile systems in units of nuclear forces Russia will deploy new missile systems in five formations of the strategic nuclear forces, Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu announced today at a meeting with the ministry's top brass. "At the moment, the construction of infrastructure for the deployment of new missile systems in five formations of the Strategic Missile Forces (RVSN) has been secured," he said. He indicated that, in preparing a list of infrastructure projects for 2023, "special attention will be paid to construction in the interests of strategic nuclear forces." In October, Russia conducted "Grom" (Thunder) maneuvers of its strategic nuclear forces, presided over by Russian President Vladimir Putin via videoconference. 14:23 Breaking news: A letter bomb injures one person at the Ukrainian embassy in Madrid An employee of the Ukrainian embassy in Madrid was slightly injured after a bomb exploded in the diplomatic delegation and was taken, initially with minor injuries, to the Nuestra Señora de América hospital in the capital, police sources said. 14:16 Brussels opens the way to use assets frozen to Moscow and Russian oligarchs for the benefit of Ukraine The European Commission will today approve a two-pronged plan to make Russia pay for its "horrendous crimes", both from an economic and justice point of view, its president, Ursula von der Leyen, announced this morning. "We have the means to do so," she says. Beatriz Navarro, La Vanguardia's correspondent in Brussels, reports. 14:08 Breaking news : Ukraine denounces the death of a teenager in an attack on a hospital in Sumy Ukrainian authorities on Wednesday accused Russia of killing a 15-year-old teenager in an attack on a hospital in the town of Bilopil, located in the Sumy region (northeast). Sumy Governor Dimitro Zhivitski said in a message on his Telegram account that "Russian soldiers have killed a boy in Bilopil." "They have also destroyed part of the hospital," he said. Thus, he has detailed that the deceased "was in the street" at the time of the attack. "Russian shells exploded on the hospital grounds at a time when there were many patients on the site," he said. 14:00 Russia has trained more than 300,000 reservists in two months, according to Shoigu Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu reported today that in two months more than 300,000 reservists have received training in the framework of the partial mobilization decreed last September 21. "In two months, 300,000 reservists, including volunteers, have been trained," Shoigu said at a meeting of the Defense General Staff. He specified that about 8,000 tank and artillery tank crews, artillery operators and anti-aircraft defense units, among other military specialists, have been trained at the training centers. In this work, the minister added, about 3,000 instructors have been involved and more than a hundred military sites in Russia and Belarus have been used. 13:51 Breaking News | Russia claims to have seized two localities in Ukraine's Donetsk region The Russian Army today claimed to have taken control over two new localities in Ukraine's Donetsk region, Russian command spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in today's war report. "During the offensive of the Russian troops in the Donetsk direction were fully liberated the localities of Belohirivka and Pershne Travna in the Donetsk People's Republic," the Russian major general noted. According to Konashenkov, during the fighting "up to 50 Ukrainian servicemen, four armored vehicles, three pieces of self-propelled artillery and six cars were annihilated". The Defense spokesman noted that the Russian Army repulsed all attempts of counterattacks of the Ukrainian forces perpetrated in the south of this region. 13:43 Pope reiterates his call for peace for "martyred Ukraine" a after criticism from Russia The Pope has reiterated his call for peace for "martyred Ukraine" despite criticism from the Russian government, which denounced the pontiff's alleged "Russophobia" and a "scandalous perversion of the truth" with his words. "May the intercession of the Holy Brother Apostles Peter and Andrew, soon grant the Church the full enjoyment of her unity and peace to the whole world, especially to the beloved and tormented Ukraine, always in our hearts and prayers," the Pope prayed during the general audience he led on Wednesday. 13:34 " In Kherson life stopped " It's freezing in Kherson, and Victoria's family's little old Lada has no heat. Still, she begs her parents to drive her every evening to the train station, where she can get an internet signal, a scarce service in the city. They park in front of the building and wait outside the vehicle - even though it's drizzling - for their 15-year-old daughter, protected by a red jacket and baseball cap, to get her homework online and download new lessons from her cell phone. "She has suffered a lot, that's why we are trying to help her," her mother justifies. Catalina Gomez, special service in Kherson, reports. 13:25 NATO pledges to repair Ukraine's power grid damaged by Russian attacks NATO members have pledged continued support to Ukraine in dealing with Russian military aggression, including help to repair its energy infrastructure in the face of Russia's "brutal" wave of missile and drone attacks on the power grid. During the meeting of allied foreign ministers in Bucharest, Romania, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said that in the face of Russian President Vladimir Putin's intentions to leave Ukraine "in the dark" and use winter as a "weapon of war," the 30 allies have signaled their willingness to sustain support for Kyiv, including dealing with the consequences of "deliberate" attacks on the energy grid. 13:17 Putin calls to integrate the four annexed Ukrainian regions into the Russian judicial system Russian President Vladimir Putin has called on the Supreme Court to include the four Ukrainian regions annexed in September - Donetsk, Lugansk, Kherson and Zaporiyia - into the Russian judicial system as soon as possible. "Federal courts are supposed to be created in these territories. The Supreme Court, along with other bodies of the judiciary, has a lot of work to do to form new court compositions and their rapid integration into the Russian judicial system," Putin said. The Russian president insisted that Moscow is obliged to take this step in order to guarantee the rights of the inhabitants of these four regions, annexed to Russia after referendums that were considered illegal by the international community. 13:09 Russian Prosecutor's Office draws up a list of information subject to sanctions The Russian Prosecutor's Office has drawn up a list of information subject to possible sanctions, including the dissemination of false information on the activity of the Armed Forces, a recurring accusation since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine. As explained by the Russian Public Prosecutor's Office, the sanctions could range from the suspension of domestic media licenses to a ban on the publication of foreign media, as reported by the TASS news agency. As it appears from the text prepared by the Prosecutor's Office, the grounds for such decisions can be both the publication of unreliable information endangering the public, as well as those that pose a threat to public order, as well as the aforementioned slander about military activity abroad. 13:00 Canada sees arms support to Ukraine as a way to strengthen its negotiating capacity with Russia Canada's Foreign Minister Mélanie Joly said that arms, financial and intelligence support to Ukraine is a way to strengthen the Ukrainian position for future negotiations with Russia. "Russia is not at the negotiating table at all. Therefore, our goal at the moment is simply to strengthen Ukraine's position on the ground through military assistance, Intelligence exchange and financial support," Joly has said. In an interview to the British newspaper 'The Guardian', the Canadian diplomatic representative showed her conviction that the war in Ukraine will be solved with an agreement between the parties, as "that has been the case in all conflicts". 12:51 Russia rises up against the Pope for saying.that the "cruelest" are the Chechens and Buryats Pope Francis has infuriated Moscow with his statements in his latest interview, where he has clearly condemned Russia as the aggressor state in the war in Ukraine and has assured that "generally the cruelest are perhaps the peoples who are of Russia, but are not of the Russian tradition", giving as an example the Chechens and Buryats as the biggest criminals of the conflict. Anna Buj, correspondent of La Vanguardia in Vatican City, reports. 12:43 Czech Army to train 4,000 Ukrainian soldiers A total of 4,000 Ukrainian soldiers will be trained on Czech territory in 2023 by the Army of the Czech Republic, in mechanized infantry units and specialized works, reports today the digital newspaper "Seznam Zpravy". The program is carried out under the auspices of the European Union (EU), which will reimburse part of the cost of the operation, estimated at 40 million euros. There are five training missions for Ukrainians planned for next year at the military maneuvering ground in Libava (east of the country), each lasting four weeks and with a capacity of 800 soldiers. 12:35 In 9 months of war Ukraine has detected 240,000 Russian aerial devices Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began 9 months ago, the country's forces have detected a total of 240,000 aerial devices launched by the Russians, the commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Valery Zaluzhny, reported on his Telegram account on Wednesday. The detection of these devices of all types launched by the Russian Army was made possible thanks to the use of radio engineering by the Ukrainian Air Force, the military command clarified. This early detection of aerial weapons contributed to saving thousands of lives. "During nine months of large-scale warfare, the Air Force's radio engineering forces have detected and accompanied more than 240,000 enemy air targets," Zaluzhny clarified. 12:27 Zelensky urges to create a special court to sue Russia at the ICC Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky on Tuesday urged to create a special court so that "every Russian murderer gets the deserved punishment" at the International Criminal Court (ICC). Zelensky lamented in his usual evening address that "available international legal instruments are not sufficient for justice." "Even in the ICC it is still impossible to bring to justice the highest political and military leaders of Russia for the crime of aggression against our state, for the main crime. The crime that gave rise to all the other crimes of this war, and not only after February 24, but also from 2014 onwards. That's when it all started," he said. 12:19 EU explores legal maze to try Russia's crimes in Ukraine The European Union wants Russian perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and aggression in Ukraine to stand trial, but EU officials themselves acknowledge the legal difficulty in bringing that undertaking to fruition. "We will work with the ICC and help establish a specialized court to try Russia's crimes," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Twitter today. Her Executive has sent EU member states a document with different paths in that complicated legal labyrinth, which in the first place would go through investigating and judging war crimes and crimes against humanity that Brussels attributes to Moscow, relying on the ICC. 12:10 Moldova fears another blackout Moldova fears more power outages in the coming days, like the ones it has suffered twice, in October and November, as a result of Russian shelling of the Ukrainian energy infrastructure. When this happens, the high-voltage line coming from Romania is disconnected for safety. This line starts in Isaccea and runs through southern Ukraine to Cuciurgan, in the breakaway republic of Transnistria - the post-Soviet conflict frozen since 1992 - to enter Moldovan territory. Felix Flores, journalist of La Vanguardia, reports. 12:02 Czech Parliament approves training of Ukrainian military The Parliament of the Czech Republic has approved on Tuesday the training of Ukrainian military, which the government expects to train 800 soldiers. The Czech Lower House has approved the stay of Ukrainian soldiers in the country, while it has validated the sending of Czech military to other member states of the European Union with the aim of training members of the Ukrainian Army, in the framework of Russia's invasion. This proposal of the Czech Executive has to be approved by the Senate, where it will be debated this Thursday, the Czech news agency CTK reported. According to the government document, five four-week tours training 800 Ukrainian soldiers will take place next year in Libavá, in the east of the Czech Republic. 11:53 U.S. Considers Designating Wagner Group as Foreign Terrorist Organization The Biden Administration is considering designating the Wagner Group, owned by a Russian businessman with ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, as a foreign terrorist organization. People familiar with the matter have explained that the U.S. decision to designate the Wagner Group as a terrorist is part of Washington's efforts to sanction the group for its involvement in the war in Ukraine, Bloomberg reports. However, at the moment the Biden administration has not made a final decision on the designation, which would allow criminal prosecutions against the group and its members, as well as pursuing its assets. The White House and the State Department have not issued statements regarding this news. 11:44 Brussels proposes expropriating frozen funds from Russia to pay for Ukraine reconstruction European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Wednesday proposed expropriating property and assets frozen from Russian oligarchs in the European Union for their support of the invasion of Ukraine to redirect these resources to the reconstruction of the country, while advancing EU support for the creation of a special international tribunal to try the crimes of Vladimir Putin's regime. "Russia must also pay financially for the devastation it causes," said the head of the Community Executive in a short video recorded in which she details that the estimated damages in Ukraine reach 600 billion euros. Since the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, the European Union has been able to block 300 billion euros from the reserves of the Russian Central Bank and to freeze another 19 billion euros from individuals and companies included in the list of those sanctioned by the EU-27 as a consequence of their support for the war. 11:36 Nigeria warns that weapons used in Ukraine war are "leaking" into Lake Chad basin Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari has warned that "weapons used in the war in Ukraine are beginning to leak into the region" and called for reinforced border security deployment in the Lake Chad basin, where terrorist groups such as Boko Haram and Islamic State operate. "Unfortunately, the situation in the Sahel and the active war in Ukraine serve as major sources of weapons and fighters that strengthen the ranks of terrorists in the Lake Chad region," Buhari said during a summit of heads of state and government of the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC). Thus, he noted that "a substantial proportion of arms and ammunition for the war in Libya continues to enter the Lake Chad region and other parts of the Sahel", before stressing that "this movement of arms to the region has increased the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, which continues to threaten collective peace and security in the region." 11:27 The war never left Kherson, reports Catalina Gomez, correspondent for La Vanguardia in Kherson. Kherson has become a battlefront; there is no longer any safe place left in the city. The residential complexes are not, and even less so the public places where the population lines up daily in search of products they need for their survival, such as the only large chain supermarket that, with great fanfare, was reopened a few days ago. Last Friday, when the clock struck noon, two missiles fell less than a hundred meters away, one of them in the middle of a small square through which all vehicles entering the city must pass. The windows of the façade were shattered; some customers waiting to enter the store were injured. 11:16 Russia appoints new director of annexed Zaporiyia nuclear power plant The Russian government has appointed a former chief engineer of the Ukrainian state atomic company Energoatom as the new director of Ukraine's Zaporiyia nuclear power plant, the largest in Europe and located in the region of the same name, which the Kremlin annexed last September without fully controlling it. The new director of the plant, occupied by Russian troops since March 4, is Yuri Chernichuk, said the advisor to the general director of the Russian state company Rosenergoatom, Renat Karchaa. "All the management staff, including the chief engineer, his deputies and in general all key positions, today at the station are occupied by representatives of the previous team that signed a contract with the operating company, so I suggest that the gentlemen from across the river and their curators finally calm down," he said. 11:05 Turkey calls for being "creative" to "ensure a just peace for Ukraine " Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu claimed today in Bucharest the need not to simply condemn Russian aggression against Kiev and vindicated Ankara's role in finding solutions to ensure "a just peace for Ukraine." "Simply by condemning we cannot solve the problems," said the head of Turkish diplomacy, who added: "we have to act and be creative to ensure a just peace for Ukraine." The Turkish minister made the remarks at an Aspen Institute event in Bucharest, which is hosting a summit of NATO foreign ministers today and tomorrow to discuss, among other issues, the Alliance's response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. 10:56 EU endorses 10 billion Hungarian aid for Russian company to build two nuclear reactors The General Court of the European Union has dismissed an appeal brought by Austria against €10 billion state aid granted by Hungary to state-owned MVM Paks in 2017, which was used to contract Russian company JSC Niaep to build two nuclear reactors. These two new nuclear reactors under construction at the Paks nuclear power plant site are to gradually replace the four nuclear reactors already operated at that site. This investment aid consists of the transfer, free of charge, of the new nuclear reactors for operation and is largely financed by a loan in the form of a EUR 10 billion revolving credit line granted by the Russian Federation to Hungary within the framework of an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. 10:45 Russia says it postponed nuclear disarmament dialogue because of U.S. Russia today defended its postponement of dialogue with the U.S. on nuclear disarmament under the New START Treaty because of the U.S. country's "unwillingness" to take Russian priorities into account. Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Riabkov said this today. "We faced a situation when our American colleagues in various areas demonstrated not only an unwillingness to perceive our signals, take into account our priorities, but acted in the opposite direction," the "number two" foreign minister told the media, according to TASS news agency. Read more: Russia cancels meeting with U.S. on nuclear arms control 10:35 European Commission wants to confiscate frozen Russian assets The European Commission has proposed a plan to confiscate Russian assets that have been frozen to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine. "We have blocked €300 billion of Russian central bank reserves and frozen €19 billion of Russian oligarchs' money," Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, commented in a statement. Von der Leyen also said that in the short term the EU and its partners will be able to manage the funds and invest them. The proceeds will go to Ukraine to ultimately compensate for the damage caused to the country: "We will work on an international agreement with our partners to make this possible. And together, we can find the legal way to achieve it." 10:24 British energy regulator proposes controlling electricity prices Britain's energy watchdog has proposed pushing price controls for electricity distribution companies over the next five years, a mechanism the regulator says will deliver cheaper, cleaner energy at no extra cost to consumers. These controls, which would apply from April 1, 2023 to 2028, require six companies that operate electricity distribution networks to focus their investments on reducing reliance on imported fossil fuels, regulator Ofgem said in a statement on Wednesday. Businesses and households across Europe have been hit by a surge in energy prices that began as the world emerged from covid confinement and then spiked in February as a result of the invasion of Ukraine by top gas exporter Russia. 10:14 Cuba blames U.S. and NATO for the conflict in Ukraine The president of the National Assembly of Cuba, Esteban Lazo Hernandez, today condemned Western sanctions against Russia and assured that the conflict in Ukraine was provoked by the approach of U.S. and NATO military structures to the Russian borders. "Cuba warned that the conflict in Ukraine could have been avoided if the United States and NATO had not approached the borders of the Russian Federation and if that alliance had not imposed a military doctrine of increasingly offensive character," said Lazo Hernandez in a speech in the Russian Senate. The president of the Cuban Legislative stressed that for decades Russia's legitimate and well-founded demands for security guarantees were disregarded. 10:02 Russia rises up against the Pope for saying that the "cruelest" are the Chechens and Buryats, Reports Anna Buj, Vatican City correspondent Pope Francis has infuriated Moscow with his statements in his latest interview, where he has clearly condemned Russia as the aggressor state in the war in Ukraine and has assured that "generally the most cruel are perhaps the peoples who are of Russia, but are not of the Russian tradition," giving as an example the Chechens and Buryats as the biggest criminals in the conflict. "Certainly the one who invades is the Russian state. That is very clear. Sometimes I try not to specify so as not to offend and rather to condemn in general, although it is well known whom I am condemning. It is not necessary for me to give my name and surname," the Pontiff assured in declarations to the Jesuit magazine America Magazine, asked about his apparent reluctance to criticize Russia directly. 09:53 EU to collaborate to try Russia, freeze funds to rebuild Ukraine The European Union has decided that it will collaborate with the International Criminal Court (ICC) to set up a specialized court to try Russia's "horrific crimes" while ensuring with its partners that it pays for the "devastation" it has caused in Ukraine with frozen Russian assets and funds. The announcement was advanced today, Wednesday, by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, in a message on her official Twitter account, accompanied by a video. In addition, the German politician, noted that the EU and its partners will ensure "that Russia pays for the devastation it caused, with the frozen funds of the oligarchs and the assets of its central bank." 09:43 NATO pledges more aid for Ukraine as Russia attacks on multiple fronts NATO allies promised to supply more weapons for Ukraine and equipment to help restore power supplies cut off by Russian attacks, while Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky said his forces were defending themselves against attempted Russian advances in multiple regions. The Ukrainian government said Wednesday that its forces had repelled six Russian attacks in the past 24 hours in the eastern Donbas region, while Russian artillery had relentlessly shelled the right bank of the Dnieper River and the town of Kherson further south. Some Ukrainians fled to bomb shelters on Tuesday after air raid warning sirens sounded, although "all clear" was later sounded across the country. In the eastern Donetsk region, Russian soldiers shelled Ukrainian targets with artillery, mortar and tank fire. 09:31 Moldova fears another blackout Moldova fears more power outages in the coming days, like the ones it has suffered twice, in October and November, as a result of Russian shelling of Ukrainian energy infrastructure. When this happens, the high-voltage line coming from Romania is disconnected for safety. This line starts in Isaccea and runs through southern Ukraine to Cuciurgan in the breakaway republic of Transnistria - the frozen post-Soviet conflictsince 1992- to enter Moldovan territory. 09:22 Robles states that the war in Ukraine shows that mastering cyberspace is essential The Minister of Defense, Margarita Robles, said Tuesday that "the war in Ukraine has highlighted that mastering cyberspace is essential" and that she is aware that it is necessary "to be improving, innovating and taking steps forward in the challenge of cybersecurity every day". "The war in Ukraine has highlighted that the mastery of cyberspace is essential, as is the cognitive domain," said Robles, who was accompanied by the Chief of Defense Staff, Admiral General Esteban López Calderón, and by the Director General of the National Intelligence Center (CNI), Esperanza Casteleiro. 09:12 NATO addresses the challenge of China and support for Moldova, Georgia and Bosnia NATO foreign ministers will seek to outline today at their meeting in Bucharest a common policy to the challenges facing their relationship with China, and will also meet with representatives of Moldova, Georgia and Bosnia to seek ways to support these countries in Russia's crosshairs. "China is a partner," Italian Foreign Minister Antonio Tajani said on his entrance to the summit, "but we have to balance the chessboard on trade, on industrial policy, and without that even chessboard it is impossible to work well." Tajani also referred to the importance of China to "put pressure on Russia" to achieve a "peace agreement" that guarantees the "freedom of Ukraine". NATO foreign ministers signed a declaration yesterday pledging their continued support for Ukraine. 09:00 Interview with Péter Szijjártó, Hungarian Foreign Minister: "It is a mistake not to talk to Russia " No one will be able to accuse Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó of not speaking out. Neither does his country support sanctions against Russia for the war in Ukraine, nor does he believe that it is beneficial for European politicians to ignore the Russians, nor does he consider his government to be accountable to Brussels. Hungary has chosen not to cut ties with Moscow while distancing itself from the positions of European partners. Visiting Barcelona on the occasion of the 7th Union for the Mediterranean Forum, Szijjártó accused the European "establishment" of not betting on peace. 08:50 Hungary confirms it is blocking Ukraine's participation in NATO meeting Hungary will continue to block formal meetings of the Ukraine-NATO Commission until the rights of the Hungarian minority are restored, Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó said Tuesday during the Atlantic Alliance meeting in Bucharest. "It has been clear for years that the Hungarian government will not accept a formal meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Commission until the Hungarians of Transcarpathia (western Ukraine) see their rights restored," the minister told Hungarian public television M1 from the Romanian capital. He added that since the outbreak of the war last February "everyone can see that Hungary has not raised the issues related to the rights of Hungarians". 08:38 Moldova denounces Russian "hybrid" attacks on its energy security The Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova, Natalia Gavrilita, has denounced in Bucharest the "hybrid war" it is the victim of on the part of Russia, which has brought the country to the brink of energy blackout. "The main threats Moldova faces today are related to hybrid warfare and energy security," said Gavrilita, who added: "In the last seven months, Gazprom has raised natural gas prices almost seven times, and there have also been drops in the quantities supplied." 08:29 " Life has stopped in Kherson," reports Kherson correspondent Catherine Gomez It's freezing in Kherson, and Victoria's family's little old Lada has no heat. Still, she begs her parents to drive her every evening to the train station, where she can get an internet signal, a scarce service in the city. They park in front of the building and wait outside the vehicle - even though it's drizzling - for their 15-year-old daughter, protected by a red jacket and baseball cap, to get her homework online and download new lessons from her cell phone. "She's been through a lot, so we're trying to help her," her mother justifies. Victoria has been left alone in the car, in the back seat. Today she is studying mathematics. "I'm going to need it in life, I have to do it," she says when her lesson is interrupted. 08:18 IAEA to strengthen monitoring of all Ukrainian nuclear power plants The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) plans to "strengthen its presence" at all nuclear power plants in Ukraine, involved like the rest of the country in the escalating conflict that began in February on the orders of Russian President Vladimir Putin. This was stated by the agency's director general, Rafael Grossi, at the end of a meeting in Bucharest with the Ukrainian foreign minister, Dimitro Kuleba, in which he once again advocated protecting Ukraine's energy infrastructure. In addition, "we continue to work together for the urgent establishment of a security zone around the Zaporiyia nuclear power plant," according to Grossi, who has repeatedly warned of the risks of fighting near what is considered the largest atomic plant in Europe. 08:09 Kuleba meets with NATO counterparts despite Hungarian veto Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitro Kuleba met on Tuesday in Bucharest with his NATO counterparts despite the Hungarian veto that has prevented, since 2017, Ukraine from attending NATO meetings. This was explained by a Ukrainian Ministry spokesman, who specified that it was an informal parallel meeting to the NATO meeting in Bucharest - today and tomorrow - to circumvent the Hungarian veto, "European Pravda" reported. "As you know, Hungary has been blocking Ukraine-NATO Commission meetings above the ambassadorial level since 2017," said Oleh Nikolenko, spokesman for the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry. 07:59 NATO countries ready to support Kiev as long as necessary NATO foreign ministers have pledged to continue supporting Ukraine "as long as necessary," also with backing to repair energy infrastructure, also assuring that they will not "back down." "This meeting is sending a strong message of NATO unity and continued support for Ukraine. NATO is not a party to the war, but we will continue to support Ukraine for as long as it takes. We will not back down," said Allied Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg during a press conference after the end of a session of the meeting devoted to support for Kiev. 07:48 Josep Borrell envisions a frozen conflict for Ukraine like the one in Korea, reports Gina Tosas in La Vanguardia There is often talk of who will win in Ukraine. However, "the war may not end and may freeze as in Korea", the European Union's High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, has glimpsed in an event held last Friday at the Center for International Affairs in Barcelona, CIDOB. "In Korea the two parties reached an armistice and cease-fire establishing a line of separation. This could be a way out of the conflict" between Moscow and Kyiv, added the also vice-president of the European Commission. 07:39 US considers labeling Russia's Wagner group as terrorist Biden and his team are contemplating labeling Russia's Wagner group as a foreign terrorist organization, as part of efforts to hinder the private military company's involvement in Ukraine and its growing presence in Africa. They have not yet made a final decision on the designation but labeling Wagner as a foreign terrorist organization would allow the U.S. to pursue criminal prosecution against the group and its members, as well as go after its assets around the world. Acting against Wagner would mark a new U.S. effort to counter a group that has gained prominence and power around the world, especially since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, as its mercenaries have played a major role in the fighting. The group's leader, Yevgeny Prigozhin, is considered an important ally and supporter of President Vladimir Putin and his war effort in Ukraine. 07:27 Russia lists French NGO Open Press as a foreign agent The Russian Justice Ministry said Tuesday that it has placed the French NGO Open Press on its list of "foreign agents" for conducting "undesirable" activities for Moscow in the midst of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. In a statement, the Russian Justice Ministry has indicated that Open Press is among several foreign NGOs that have recently been introduced on this list, which also includes the U.S.-based Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. The list also includes the Ukrainian Vozrozhdeniye Foundation and an eponymous religious center. The Ministry stressed that these organizations are thus included in the list in accordance with Article 3.1 of the Russian legislation on "measures of influence on persons involved in violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens of Russia". 07:17 Zelensky proposes to create a special court to sue Russia at the ICC Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky has proposed to create a special court so that "every Russian murderer gets the deserved punishment" at the International Criminal Court (ICC). Zelensky lamented in his usual evening address that "the available international legal instruments are not sufficient for justice." "Even in the ICC it is still impossible to bring to justice the highest political and military leaders of Russia for the crime of aggression against our state, for the main crime. The crime that gave rise to all the other crimes of this war, and not only after February 24, but also from 2014 onwards. That's when it all started," he said. 07:09 Turkish company offers floating power plants ready to light up Ukraine, Jordi Joan Baños reports from Istanbul A Turkish company specializing in floating power plants claims to be in negotiations with Ukraine to alleviate its pressing energy needs. Karpowership, which has the largest fleet of its kind in the world, with 36 generator ships, has reportedly offered the state-owned Ukrenergo to moor three of them in Odessa, on the Black Sea. The company, a subsidiary of the Turkish holding company Karadeniz, promises to feed the Ukrainian grid in three weeks, if it gets the green light. With 300 MW to start with, for one million people. 06:59 EU assures support to preserve Ukrainian heritage European Union member states today assured their commitment to the preservation and reconstruction of Ukrainian cultural heritage and insisted on the need to strengthen cooperation with the European Commission to address the country's urgent humanitarian and cultural needs. At the EU Culture Council, which took place on Tuesday, member states showed their concern over the humanitarian situation in Ukraine and the destruction of the country's cultural heritage, and reached a broad consensus on the need to create a special fund dedicated to the protection of Ukrainian culture. The Ukrainian Minister of Culture, Oleksandr Tkachenko, warned that a thousand cultural or religious buildings have been "seriously" damaged or destroyed, 200 media outlets have been closed, 16 television towers have been bombed and 90 Ukrainian journalists have been killed, wounded or kidnapped during the aggression ordered by the Russian President, Vladimir Putin. 06:51 Turkey calls for being "creative" to "ensure a just peace for Ukraine " Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu claimed today in Bucharest the need to go beyond condemning Russian aggression against Kiev and vindicated Ankara's role in finding solutions to ensure "a just peace for Ukraine". "Simply by condemning we cannot solve the problems," said the head of Turkish diplomacy, who added: "we have to act and be creative to ensure a just peace for Ukraine." The Turkish minister made these remarks at an event at the Aspen Institute in Bucharest, which is hosting today and tomorrow a summit of NATO foreign ministers to discuss, among other issues, the Alliance's response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 06:44 Russia cancels meeting with the United States on nuclear arms control The meeting of the bilateral commission between Russia and the United States on the START or START III Treaty that was to be held from Tuesday in Cairo has been postponed. This was announced today by the Russian Foreign Ministry. 06:37 Slovakia delivers 30 infantry transport vehicles to Ukraine Slovakia has delivered 30 Soviet-made, amphibious-capable BMP-1 infantry transport vehicles to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Central European country's Defense Minister Jaroslav Nad said Tuesday. "We fulfill the agreements, support the liberation of Ukraine and strengthen our defense," Nad says on his Facebook profile, where he explains that with this operation Slovakia will receive in exchange from Germany 15 used Leopard 2A4 tanks, along with spare parts, ammunition and training for soldiers. While the BMP-1s - a type of armored infantry carrier with a 73 mm gun - are already on Ukrainian territory, the first German Leopard will not arrive in Slovakia until December, after which they will be delivered at the rate of 1-2 per month during 2023 until the 15 are completed. 06:30 Russia-Ukraine war | Latest news of the conflict, live Good morning and welcome to La Vanguardia for a new informative day on all the news of the Russian invasion in Ukraine, where we will follow the latest developments of the conflict that stalks Europe.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221201eibu0041h


Insight EU monitoring - Your Daily Premium Digest
17571 字
2022 年 11 月 30 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 28 November 2022

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 28 November 2022

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 28 November 2022

* Sports: EU ministers demand sustainable adaptation of infrastructre

* Criminal investigations: EU lawmakers strike deal on cross-border e-Evidence

* Ukraine: NATO foreign ministers set to address more support

* Sanctions against Turkey and Turkish entities – EU Commission answer

* Intellectual property: EU Commission presents new rules for more effective protection

* Opening speech by HRVP Borrell at the Brussels Indo-Pacific Forum

* Expo 2030/Odesa: Zelenskyy adresses International Bureau of Expositions

* Swedish Foreign Minister Billström in Bucharest for meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers

* Finland: Ministry of Defence decided on protection installations for communication station A

* São Tomé e Príncipe: EU Spokesperson on the coup attempt

* High-level Forum on legal pathways to protection

* Mergers: EU Commission clears acquisition of De Jong and DJV by Stora Enso

* Antitrust: EU Commission fines styrene purchasers €157m in cartel settlement

* EU Commission takes action to ensure complete and timely transposition of EU directives

* EU Commission welcomes political agreement on the new EU product safety rules

* European skills: Launch of a large-scale partnership on skills in retail

* Spain and Croatia will receive substantial financial support under EMFAF for 2021-2027

* Drone Strategy 2.0: Creating a large-scale European drone market

* Dismantling human trafficking: Eurojust assists Hungary and Switzerland

* Support to French and Belgian authorities against large-scale drug trafficking – Eurojust

* Frontex Executive Director: MEPs to quiz candidates

* EU lawmakers reach deal on better protecting online shoppers and vulnerable consumers

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 28 November 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-28-november-2022/395492/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

MULTIPLE CRISES

* EEA: Moving towards sustainability in times of multiple crises and uncertainty

CITES COP 19

* Wildlife trade regime: EU helps achieve stricter trade regulations for species threatened by international trade at CITES COP19

* World Wildlife Conference in Panama adopts improved protection for sharks, reptiles and tropical timber

THE ROTTERDAM CONVENTION

* Rotterdam COP Bureau meeting report is now available

MARINE ASSESSMENT

* EEA marine assessment areas

* Extended wetland ecosystem layer

COVID-19 MONITORING

* Commission recommends recognising COVID-19 as occupational disease in certain sectors and during a pandemic

GERMANY

* A new handbook highlights six steps to successful risk communication

* Reference number 3146 – Scientific Officer for the assessment of plant protection products (f/m/d) in the Pesticides Safety department at the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 5545 2022 REV 1 Working Party on the Environment

* CM 5545 2022 INIT Working Party on the Environment

* PE 39 2022 REV 1 REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL AMENDING ANNEXES IV AND V TO REGULATION (EU) 2019/1021 ON PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS

EFSA BRIEFS

* Pest survey card on Exomala orientalis

* 2nd meeting of the One Health subgroup of the Scientific Network for Risk Assessment in Animal Health and Welfare

* Register to attend the 93rd Management Board Web meeting

* 1st meeting of the EFSA Technical Group on the Tools related to the application of the Transparency Regulation (TG TOOLS)

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

To be added later

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-28-november-2022/395492/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 28 November 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-28-november-2022/395491/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU ETS

* Drei weitere Jahre: EEX bleibt deutsche Auktionsplattform für Emissionsrechte im EU ETS

IPCC

* IPCC circulates final draft of Synthesis Report to Sixth Assessment Report

JUST TRANSITION

* Just transition and energy crisis in focus at the annual meeting of the Initiative for coal regions in transition in the Western Balkans and Ukraine

CARBON REMOVAL

* EEB: Carbon Removals Certification – 28 November 2022

CLIMATE DIPLOMACY

* 9 months after Summit: European Union and African Union Commissions take stock of the implementation of the February Summit commitments

* Statement by President von der Leyen with African Union Commission Chairperson Faki

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Science, technology and innovation

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Strategic Corridors

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Sustainable food systems

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Climate Resilience

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Regional value chains

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Africa-EU Green Energy Initiative

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Africa’s Great Green Wall Initiative

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Health

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Digital transition

* EU – Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Infrastructure

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package – Investing in Young Businesses in Africa

* EU-Africa: Global Gateway Investment Package

EFRAG

* EFRAG FR TEG meeting 30 November 2022

* EFRAG FR TEG meeting 1 December 2022

* EFRAG FR TEG-CFSS webcast meeting 30 November 2022

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 5579 2022 INIT Financial Services Attachés (Sustainable finance/EuGB)

* CM 5590 2022 INIT Ad hoc Working Party on the Social Climate Fund (AHWP SCF) (morning only)

* CM 5539 2022 INIT Ad Hoc Working Party on the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (AHWP CBAM)

* ST 14413 2022 INIT Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulations (EU) 2018/841 as regards the scope, simplifying the compliance rules, setting out the targets of the Member States for 2030 and committing to the collective achievement of climate neutrality by 2035 in the land use, forestry and agriculture sector, and (EU) 2018/1999 as regards improvement in monitoring,

* ST 15178 2022 INIT Presidency report on new own resources

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING DECISION on the publication of a list indicating certain CO2 emissions values per manufacturer as well as average specific CO2 emissions of all new heavy-duty vehicles registered in the Union pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2019/1242 of the European Parliament and of the Council for the reporting period of the year 2020

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

To be added later

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-28-november-2022/395491/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 28 November 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-28-november-2022/395490/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

ENERGY COUNCIL

* Extraordinary Energy Council on 13 December 2022

ENERGY STORAGE

* ESGC Energy Storage Global Conference 2022

GAS MARKET

* Joint paper: Energy Performance of Buildings Directive: a bottom-up approach for integrated system efficiency

HYDROGEN

* Clean Hydrogen Joint Undertaking and European Innovation Council and SMEs Executive Agency start collaboration on hydrogen

* H2vorOrt begrüßt die klaren Feststellungen der vom Nationalen Wasserstoffrat beauftragten Bottom-up-Studie der Fraunhofer Institute ISE/IEE

* Latest hydrogen headlines

* TES and EWE to build electrolyser at green energy hub

* Rolls-Royce tests H2 jet engine

* Rolls-Royce, easyJet Successful Test Run for its Hydrogen-Powered Jet Engine—Towards Carbon Neutrality

* Solar-to-hydrogen project to be first stop on a California-to-Texas “hydrogen highway”

* Wärtsilä working with Hycamite on onboard production of hydrogen from LNG

* Green hydrogen project powered by solar under development in California

* Indonesia state power company in energy storage, green hydrogen MoU with ACWA Power

* R4-trillion needed for South Africa’s hydrogen economy, PIC declares

* Axens, Chiyoda and the search for liquid hydrogen carriers

* Finnish partners developing technology for onboard hydrogen production from LNG

* ACWA Power signs green hydrogen production MoU in Thailand

* Canada-First Hydrogen selects Quebec for first green hydrogen system

* ACWA Power, PTT, and EGAT support Thailand through use of green hydrogen

* Rolls-Royce tests hydrogen-fueled aircraft engine in aviation world first

* Rolls-Royce and easyJet test aircraft engine running on hydrogen

* Rolls-Royce and Easyjet test jet engine running on hydrogen

* Researchers develop earth-abundant photocatalyst for conversion of ammonia into hydrogen

* Nersa calls for comments on gas, renewable energy and hydrogen partnership strategy

* European project HARARE seeks to produce iron and non-ferrous metals from waste using hydrogen as reductant

* Green NortH2 Energy receives €2.3M in R&D funding from Business Finland for the development of green hydrogen and ammonia production

* Rotterdam Port to house Battolyser plant for green hydrogen production

* Green Hydrogen Is Not A Silver Bullet Solution

* Japan and South Korea must recognize blue hydrogen is not clean

* Airbus Unveils New Cryogenic Tanks ‘Cold Hearts’ for Future Hydrogen-Powered Flight

* A Light-powered Catalyst Could Be Key For Hydrogen Economy

* Toyota Prius review, Porsche Taycan lessons, mobile hydrogen stations: The Week in Reverse

BATTERY TECH

* Baden-Württemberg: 7,2 Millionen Euro für die Batterieforschung

WIND ENERGY

* Increasing cost pressures and design flaws undermine Spanish auction

GERMANY

* Bundesregierung: Entlastungen bei Energiepreisen

* Bundestag: Baurechtsänderungen zu­guns­ten e­rneuer­ba­rer Ener­gien begrüßt

ENERGY REGULATION

* We have the pleasure of announcing the call for the 7th Ana Aguado Scholarship Award!

* Join ENTSO-E Winter Outlook webinar on 1st December 2022, 15.00 – 16.00 CET

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* ST 14859 2022 INIT Council Regulation (EU) 2022/1854 of 6 October 2022 on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

* ST 15096 2021 ADD 1 REV 1 ANNEXES to the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal markets for renewable and natural gases and for hydrogen

* ST 15096 2021 REV 1 Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the internal markets for renewable and natural gases and for hydrogen (recast)

* ST 15111 2021 ADD 1 REV 1 ANNEXES to the Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal markets in renewable and natural gases and in hydrogen

* ST 15111 2021 REV 1 Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on common rules for the internal markets in renewable and natural gases and in hydrogen (recast)

* ST 14964 2022 INIT Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down a framework to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy – Political agreement

* ST 14743 2022 INIT Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down a framework to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy – poss. Political agreement

* ST 14529 2022 INIT Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down a framework to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy – poss. Political agreement

* ST 14736 2022 INIT Proposal for a Council Directive restructuring the Union framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity (recast) – Policy debate

* ST 15176 2022 INIT Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down a framework to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy – Agreement on the content

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

To be added later

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-28-november-2022/395490/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Sports: EU ministers demand sustainable adaptation of infrastructre[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sports-eu-ministers-demand-sustainable-adaptation-of-infrastructre/395485/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

A meeting of the Sports Council chaired by Czech Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Vladimír Balaš took place in Brussels today. The ministers discussed opportunities in the field of sport in the light of the consequences of the pandemic, Russian aggression against Ukraine and increased energy prices. In addition, sports ministers adopted Council Conclusions on Sustainable and Accessible Sports Infrastructure.

At the beginning of the meeting, the ministers adopted the Council Conclusions on Sustainable and Accessible Sports Infrastructure. Their basic principle is to ensure that new and existing sports infrastructure is sustainable, energy-efficient and does not pollute the natural environment. The second is to ensure that sport infrastructure is accessible to everyone, everywhere, regardless of their social status or disability.

“I would like us to look to the future and reflect on how we have learnt from the current crises and how these challenges can shape our future policies and activities – this would strengthen the resilience of the sports sector. We should consider new forms of cooperation, immediate and structural reforms, or even consider the current crises as a new beginning that will lead to better support for the sports sector,” said Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Vladimír Balaš.

EU ministers then discussed whether the covid-19 pandemic, Russian aggression against Ukraine and high energy prices could be not merely a negative phenomenon but also an opportunity for the further development of sport. They discussed not only the importance of cooperation between the state and the sports movement in dealing with crises in sport, but also how we can learn from our experiences with the pandemic, Russian aggression and high energy costs to ensure that sport is available to all.

The Ministers present also agreed that sport, like other sectors, must adapt to the current situation, not only in the light of the covid-19 pandemic and Russian aggression against Ukraine, but also in the light of the green and digital transition. Supporting innovation in sport is therefore crucial. The promotion of values such as fair play and healthy lifestyles, which are closely linked to the sports movement, should also continue to be a priority.

Prior to the afternoon session, an informal lunch discussion was held at the invitation of Minister Vladimír Balaš, which focused on the lack of qualified PE teachers and other sports professionals in school education. The discussion revealed that the shortage of qualified professionals is a problem that is shared by most Member States across Europe. Promoting their participation in children’s education should be a priority in the future and contribute to improving the quality of sports education as well as the early identification of talent in sport.

Culture was discussed prior to sports

Prior to the sports part of the EYCS Council, a meeting of the Council for Culture chaired by the Czech Minister of Culture Martin Baxa took place. The main topics of the meeting were the approval of the EU Work Plan for Culture 2023-2026 and the presentation of a progress report on the new set of rules to protect media pluralism and independence in the EU – the European Media Freedom Act (EMFA).

The meeting also included a policy debate on aid to Ukraine. In particular, it was about the delivery of material assistance, which Ukraine had requested in advance in writing from Member States, both in securing Ukraine’s cultural heritage and in the context of repeated Russian attacks on critical Ukrainian infrastructure. The Ukrainian Minister of Culture Oleksandr Tkachenko also took part in the debate.

Find out more information[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/eycs/2022/11/28-29/]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sports-eu-ministers-demand-sustainable-adaptation-of-infrastructre/395485/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Criminal investigations: EU lawmakers strike deal on cross-border e-Evidence[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/criminal-investigations-eu-lawmakers-strike-deal-on-cross-border-e-evidence/395480/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Commission welcomes political agreement to strengthen cross-border access for criminal investigations

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The European Commission welcomes the provisional political agreement reached today by the European Parliament and the Council on the new rules for sharing of e-evidence across the EU. This agreement will lead to the formal adoption of a Directive and a Regulation to govern these provisions, following the Commission’s proposal[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_18_3343]. Currently, the Member States’ authorities must rely on lengthy judicial cooperation procedures to obtain electronic evidence, with the related risks of the sought data being moved or deleted, or on procedures of voluntary cooperation with service providers involving a lack of reliability, transparency, accountability and legal certainty. The new rules will provide national authorities with a reliable channel to obtain e-evidence, while establishing strong safeguards to ensure a high level of protection of the rights of the persons affected.

Modern legislation to ensure reliable, transparent, and swift exchange of e-Evidence with a high level of protection

The Regulation on European Production and Preservation Orders provides a solution for the volatile nature of electronic evidence and its international dimension. It seeks to adapt cooperation mechanisms to the digital age, giving the judiciary and law enforcement tools to address the way criminals communicate today, and to counter modern forms of criminality:

* A European Production Order will be created to allow a judicial authority in one Member State to request electronic evidence through a decentralized IT system, directly from a service provider in another Member State, which will be obliged to respond within ten days, or eight hours in cases of emergency.

* A European Preservation Order will prevent data from being deleted, allowing judicial authorities in one Member State to oblige a service provider in another Member State to preserve specific data, and to request it at a later time. Both orders can only be issued in the framework of criminal proceedings and to localise convicts that are evading justice.

* The new rules include strong safeguards and remedies to guarantee the protection of fundamental rights and of personal information, such as imposing additional requirements to obtain certain categories of sensitive data. In cases where a person does not reside in the issuing State or the offense has not been committed there, Member States must notify the national authority where the service provider is located when they are seeking to obtain traffic and content data. The notified authority can invoke several grounds to refuse the order, such as the protection of fundamental rights or of immunities and privileges.

* Increased legal certainty for businesses and service providers. Law enforcement authorities often depend on service providers’ willingness to disclose the evidence they need on a voluntary basis, which creates uncertainty and procedures which could differ significantly among companies. The Regulation provides a clear legal framework setting out rights and obligations of service providers and imposes a sanction of up to 2% of total worldwide turnover for failure to comply with European Preservation and Production Orders.

The Directive on the appointment of legal representatives for the gathering of electronic evidence harmonises rules on appointment of legal representatives or designated establishments by:

* Mandating all services providers offering services in the Union to designate a legal representative or a designated establishment to receive, comply with, and enforce requests to gather electronic evidence;

* Allowing its provisions to be used for several instruments, in particular for European Production Orders, European Investigation Orders, the Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance, and domestic orders.

Next steps

The European Parliament and the Council will need to formally adopt today’s political agreement.Once published in the Official Journal, the Regulation will enter into force 20 days after publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall enter into application three years after that. The Directive will enter into force 20 days after publication and Member States will then need to transpose the new elements of the Directive into national law within two and a half years.

Background

In the context of a tragic wave of terrorist attacks in Europe, EU Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs[http://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2016/03/24/statement-on-terrorist-attacks-in-brussels-on-22-march/] called for concrete action based on a common EU approach to secure and obtain digital evidence more efficiently and effectively. In the 2015 European Agenda on Security[https://ec.europa.eu/home-affairs/what-we-do/policies/european-agenda-security_en], the Commission committed to reviewing obstacles to criminal investigations. The European Parliament similarly highlighted the challenges that the currently fragmented legal framework could create for service providers seeking to comply with law enforcement requests and called for a European legal framework, including safeguards for the rights and freedoms of all concerned.Many Member States had adopted measures at the national level, resulting in widely varied approaches across the Union. Measures ranged from expanded enforcement jurisdiction to the obligation to designate a legal representative for service providers in the territory of the relevant Member State. Member States also applied a number of different connecting factors to assert jurisdiction over a service provider. In addition, there were disparate cooperation mechanisms and informal agreements between the authorities of some Member States and service providers.Non-EU countries have also been developing their own approaches to address the problems faced by authorities in their criminal investigations. New rules have been developed in this area by means of a Second Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Budapest Convention on Cybercrime.In 2018, the Commission presented a proposal to make it easier and faster for law enforcement and judicial authorities to obtain the electronic evidence they need to investigate and eventually prosecute criminals and terrorists.For More InformationE-evidence – cross-border access to electronic evidence | European Commission (europa.eu)[https://ec.europa.eu/info/policies/justice-and-fundamental-rights/criminal-justice/e-evidence-cross-border-access-electronic-evidence_en]Factsheet_E-evidence.pdf.pdfEC AV PORTAL (europa.eu)[https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-149253]

Quote(s)

I welcome today’s agreement on the Commission’s proposal on e-Evidence. New rules are urgently needed in today’s judicial landscape. In the second half of 2020 alone, EU Member States made more than 100,000 requests for e-evidence to the biggest online service providers. With the European Production Order, Member States will have a reliable channel to obtain e-evidence swiftly with robust safeguards for the rights and freedoms of all affected.

Didier Reynders, Commissioner for Justice – 29/11/2022

—

The new rules on e-evidence are urgently needed to allow our judicial and law enforcement authorities to operate effectively in the fight against terrorism, cybercrime and other serious forms of crime. Criminals often remain anonymous in a borderless internet, which results in impunity. Our authorities will now be able to operate more effectively, while a high level of protection of persons involved is ensured. Today’s agreement on e-evidence is a win-win situation for our authorities and for the protection of fundamental rights, including for the victims of crime.

Ylva Johansson, Commissioner for Home Affairs, said: – 29/11/2022

EU Parliament on electronic evidence: significant progress on package

* Notifications sent to member states where service provider is located

* Possibility to refuse an order when there are fundamental rights concerns

* Data protection rules must be respected and data controllers notified

On Tuesday, EP and Council negotiators reached a political agreement on core elements of a package on requesting electronic data for criminal investigations from elsewhere in the EU.

After negotiations on June 28, a political agreement was reached on core elements of the legislative package on collecting and preserving electronic evidence (“e-evidence”) across member state borders in the EU. The new legislation would allow national authorities to request evidence directly from service providers in other member states, or ask that data be preserved for future use. The new rules would also mandate companies to appoint EU legal representatives to deal with electronic evidence requests in a centralised way.

Fundamental rights in focus

In the negotiations, Parliament sought to ensure that criminal investigations become more efficient, while fundamental rights and EU data protection rules are respected. Parliament secured a requirement to notify the authorities in the member state where the service provider is located, for traffic and content data, except for situations where the suspect resides in the issuing member state and the crime is committed there. Orders can be refused on certain grounds, notably when there are concerns about fundamental rights. In addition, the protection of media freedom and journalists was one of the main priorities of the Parliament.

Co-legislators also agreed on the rules on the reimbursement of costs and sanctions that could be imposed to the service providers in case on non-compliance. Finally, it was agreed that orders would be communicated through a specific, secure IT system.

Quote

Rapporteur Birgit Sippel (S&D, DE)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/96932/BIRGIT_SIPPEL/home#detailedcardmep] said: “As everyday life moves online, criminal activity also takes place more online, meaning that electronic evidence is increasingly important. But, accessing this evidence across borders can be a lengthy and cumbersome process, and data is too often deleted in the process. Today’s provisional agreement on the main elements of the package means that national authorities can make a direct request to service providers in other Member States to hand over or secure electronic evidence. As a long-standing advocate for the protection of personal data, I fought hard to secure safeguards that mean investigating authorities have to inform the target country’s authorities where the most sensitive data, traffic and content data, are concerned and give them an opportunity to refuse an order in specific circumstances, in particular where fundamental rights are at stake, while the service provider has to preserve the data. Parliament also made it clear that service provider will have the right to raise concerns to both the issuing and the enforcing State, for example, where the right to freedom of expression is at stake.”

Next steps

The negotiating teams will still have to agree on outstanding aspects of the package, which consists of a regulation[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/legislative-train/theme-a-new-push-for-european-democracy/file-jd-cross-border-access-to-e-evidence-production-and-preservation-orders] and a directive[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/legislative-train/theme-a-new-push-for-european-democracy/file-jd-cross-border-access-to-e-evidence-appointment-of-legal-representatives]. Then, the European Parliament and the Council of the EU will have to formally adopt them.

Further information

* Procedure file (regulation) [https://oeil.secure.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?reference=2018/0108(COD)&l=en]

* Procedure file (directive) [https://oeil.secure.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?reference=2018/0107(COD)&l=en]

* EPRS Briefing: Electronic evidence in criminal matters (22.03.2021) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2021)690522]

* Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/libe/home.html]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/criminal-investigations-eu-lawmakers-strike-deal-on-cross-border-e-evidence/395480/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Ukraine: NATO foreign ministers set to address more support[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ukraine-nato-foreign-ministers-set-to-address-more-support/395473/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Bucharest, 29 Nov. 2022

* English[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/news_209485.htm]

* French[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/news_209485.htm?selectedLocale=fr]

* Russian[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/news_209485.htm?selectedLocale=ru]

NATO foreign ministers will address ways to step up support for Ukraine at their meeting in Bucharest, Romania, on Tuesday (29 November 2022). Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said that “NATO Allies are providing unprecedented support to Ukraine, and they will continue to provide unprecedented support to Ukraine, including by helping them to rebuild their gas and power infrastructure, [and] of course also continue to deliver air defence systems.”

The Secretary General outlined that on Wednesday, ministers will discuss resilience and how to tackle the challenges posed by China’s coercive policies and actions. They will also meet with the foreign ministers of Georgia, Moldova and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to express Allies’ strong support for these partners, and address the security situation in the Western Balkans and the Black Sea regions.

Source – NATO[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/news_209485.htm]

Statement by NATO Foreign Ministers – Bucharest, 29-30 November 2022

Last updated: 28 Nov. 2022 19:49

* English[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/official_texts_209531.htm?selectedLocale=en]

* French[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/official_texts_209531.htm?selectedLocale=fr]

* Russian[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/official_texts_209531.htm?selectedLocale=ru]

The NATO Invitees associate themselves with this Statement.

1. We are gathered in Bucharest, close to the shores of the Black Sea, at a time when Russia’s ongoing invasion of Ukraine threatens Euro-Atlantic peace, security, and prosperity. Russia bears full responsibility for this war, a blatant violation of international law and the principles of the UN Charter. Russia’s aggression, including its persistent and unconscionable attacks on Ukrainian civilian and energy infrastructure is depriving millions of Ukrainians of basic human services. It has affected global food supplies, and endangered the world’s most vulnerable countries and peoples. Russia’s unacceptable actions, including hybrid activities, energy blackmail, and reckless nuclear rhetoric, undermine the rules-based international order. We stand in solidarity with Poland following the incident of 15 November that led to the tragic loss of life as a result of Russia’s missile attacks against Ukraine. We condemn Russia’s cruelty against Ukraine’s civilian populations and violations and abuses of human rights, such as forcible deportations, torture, and barbaric treatment of women, children, and persons in vulnerable situations. All those responsible for war crimes, including conflict-related sexual violence, must be held accountable. We also condemn all those, including Belarus, who are actively facilitating Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine.

2. We welcome Foreign Minister Kuleba today, stand in full solidarity with the government and people of Ukraine in their heroic defence of their nation and land, and pay tribute to all those lives lost. We remain steadfast in our commitment to Ukraine’s independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. We will never recognise Russia’s illegal annexations, which blatantly violate the UN Charter. We will continue and further step up political and practical support to Ukraine as it continues to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity and our shared values against Russian aggression, and will maintain our support for as long as necessary. In this context, NATO will continue to coordinate closely with relevant stakeholders, including international organisations, in particular the EU, as well as like-minded countries. Building on the support provided so far, we will help Ukraine now to strengthen its resilience, protect its people, and counter Russia’s disinformation campaigns and lies. Allies will assist Ukraine as it repairs its energy infrastructure and protects its people from missile attacks. We also remain resolute in supporting Ukraine’s long-term efforts on its path of post-war reconstruction and reforms, so that Ukraine can secure its free and democratic future, modernise its defence sector, strengthen long-term interoperability and deter future aggression. We will continue to strengthen our partnership with Ukraine as it advances its Euro-Atlantic aspirations.

3. Finland and Sweden are participating today as states invited to join the Alliance. Their accession will make them safer, NATO stronger, and the Euro-Atlantic area more secure. Their security is of direct importance to the Alliance, including during the accession process.

4. Recalling that the Western Balkans and the Black Sea regions are of strategic importance for the Alliance, we welcome our meeting with the Foreign Ministers of NATO partners Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, and the Republic of Moldova, as NATO strengthens its tailored support to building their integrity and resilience, developing capabilities, and upholding their political independence. We firmly stand behind our commitment to the Alliance’s Open Door policy. We reaffirm the decisions we took at the 2008 Bucharest Summit and all subsequent decisions with respect to Georgia and Ukraine.

5. NATO is a defensive Alliance. NATO will continue to protect our populations and defend every inch of Allied territory at all times. We will do so in line with our 360-degree approach and against all threats and challenges. We condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and stand in solidarity with Türkiye in grieving the loss of life after the recent horrific terrorist attacks. We face threats and challenges from authoritarian actors and strategic competitors from all strategic directions. In light of the gravest threat to Euro-Atlantic security in decades and in line with the Strategic Concept, we are implementing a new baseline for our deterrence and defence posture by significantly strengthening it and further developing the full range of robust, combat-ready forces and capabilities. All these steps will substantially strengthen NATO’s deterrence and forward defences. We remain committed to prepare for, deter, and defend against hostile attacks on Allies’ critical infrastructure. Any attack against Allies will be met with a united and determined response. We stand together in unity and solidarity and reaffirm the enduring transatlantic bond between our nations. We will continue to strive for peace, security and stability in the whole of the Euro-Atlantic area.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ukraine-nato-foreign-ministers-set-to-address-more-support/395473/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Sanctions against Turkey and Turkish entities – EU Commission answer[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sanctions-against-turkey-and-turkish-entities-eu-commission-answer/395464/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

See question(s) : E-003336/2022[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/E-9-2022-003336_EN.html]

EN

E-003336/2022

Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Borrell i Fontelles on behalf of the European Commission (29.11.2022)

EU restrictive measures (sanctions) apply within the territory of the EU or on board any aircraft or any vessel under the jurisdiction of a Member State as well as to nationals of a Member State and any legal person, entity or body incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State or in respect of any business carried out in the EU, wherever they are acting1. Member States must put in place effective, proportionate, and dissuasive penalties, applicable to the infringements of EU restrictive measures2. Therefore, if actors bound by EU sanctions breach those measures, they are subject to penalties in the concerned Member State as prescribed in the national law. A new listing criterion introduced with the 8th sanctions package allows imposing an asset freeze, prohibition to make funds available and a travel ban on actors who facilitate the circumvention of EU restrictive measures3. The Commission is not in possession of any evidence of actual circumvention of sanctions with the support of actors based in

Türkiye.

The EU-Turkey Customs Union as created by the Ankara Agreement4 of 1963 and Decision 1/95 of the EU-Turkey Association Council5 does not provide for such an automatic mechanism. As regards the modernisation of the EU-Turkey Customs Union, it continues to be addressed by the statement of the members of the European Council of 25 March 20216 and be guided by the European Council Conclusions of 24 and 25 June 20217, but work is on hold for several reasons, including those mentioned in the question.

1 Article 13 of Council Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 of 31 July 2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine, Article 17 of Council Regulation (EU) No269/2014 of 17 March 2014 concerning restrictive measures in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine.

2 Article 8(1) of Council Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 of 31 July 2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine, Article 15(1) of Council Regulation (EU) No 269/2014 of 17 March 2014 concerning restrictive measures in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine.

3 Articles 1(1)(f) and 2(1)(h) of Council Decision 2014/145/CFSP of 17 March 2014 concerning restrictive measures in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine.

4 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/resource.html?uri=cellar:f8e2f9f4-75c8-4f62-ae3fb86ca5842eee.0008.02/DOC_2&format=PDF[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/resource.html?uri=cellar:f8e2f9f4-75c8-4f62-ae3fb86ca5842eee.0008.02/DOC_2&format=PDF]

5 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:21996D0213(01)&rid=2[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:21996D0213(01)&rid=2]

6 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/48976/250321-vtc-euco-statement-en.pdf[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/48976/250321-vtc-euco-statement-en.pdf]

7 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/50763/2425-06-21-euco-conclusions-en.pdf[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/50763/2425-06-21-euco-conclusions-en.pdf]

Source: Answer to a written question – Sanctions against Turkey and Turkish entities – E-003336/2022(ASW)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/E-9-2022-003336-ASW_EN.pdf]

© European Union, 2022 – EP[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/privacy-policy/en]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sanctions-against-turkey-and-turkish-entities-eu-commission-answer/395464/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Intellectual property: EU Commission presents new rules for more effective protection[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/intellectual-property-eu-commission-presents-new-rules-for-more-effective-protection/395462/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The Commission is presenting revised rules that will make it cheaper, quicker and more predictable to protect industrial designs across the EU. An industrial design constitutes the outer appearance of a product characterised by its lines, contours or shape. The proposals for a revised Regulation and Directive on industrial designs modernise the existing Community design framework and parallel national design regimes, created and harmonised 20 years ago. The revised rules will help to further improve the conditions for businesses to innovate. At the same time, the rules also introduce a more balanced approach to design protection. This ensures that designs can be reproduced for spare parts, allowing consumers more choice in repairing complex products such as cars in particular.

The two proposals will:

* Simplify and streamline the procedure for the EU-wide registration of a design: By making it easier to present designs in an application for registration (for instance by submitting video files) or combine more than one design in one application, as well as by lowering the fees to be paid for the first ten years of protection, the new rules will make registered Community design protection more accessible, efficient and affordable in particular for individual designers and SMEs.

* Harmonise procedures and ensure complementarity with national design systems: The new framework aims to ensure greater complementarity among EU level and national design protection rules, for instance on requirements for registering designs or simplifying rules for invalidating registered designs. This will help to create a level playing field for businesses across Europe.

* Allow reproducing original designs for repair purposes of complex products: By introducing an EU-wide ‘repair clause’ into the Design Directive, the new rules will help to open up and increase competition in the spare parts market. This is particularly important in the car repair sector, where it should become legally possible in all EU countries to reproduce identical “must match” car body parts for repair to restore its original appearance. The proposed ‘repair clause’ should have instant legal effect only for future designs while designs already granted protection should remain covered during a transitional period of ten years.

Background

Today’s proposals follow the Intellectual Property Action Plan[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_2187] adopted in November 2020, where the Commission announced that it would revise the EU legislation on design protection, following the successful reform of the EU trade mark legislation. This built on results of a comprehensive evaluation of the latter, which showed that, although design protection systems in the EU are functioning well overall, there are shortcomings to be addressed. It further follows calls from stakeholders, the Council and the European Parliament, asking the Commission to modernise and further harmonise the legislation on industrial designs in the EU.

Next Steps

The two proposals will be transmitted to the European Parliament and the Council for adoption under the ordinary legislative procedure.

Once the proposals are adopted, EU Member States will have to transpose the new rules of the Directive into national law within two years. As to the Regulation, most amendments to the Community Design Regulation will become applicable soon (3 months) after its entry into force, while the rest will only apply when the necessary delegated and implementing acts are enacted (18 months after entry into force).

For More Information

Proposal for Regulation[https://single-market-economy.ec.europa.eu/publications/proposal-regulation-community-designs_en]

Proposal for Directive[https://single-market-economy.ec.europa.eu/publications/proposal-directive-legal-protection-designs-recast_en]

More information on industrial designs[https://single-market-economy.ec.europa.eu/industry/strategy/intellectual-property/industrial-design-protection_en]

Quote

Twenty years on, the current framework for industrial designs continues to provide robust protection to this type of intellectual property. Today’s well-targeted modernisation will help make it easier to protect products’ industrial designs. At the same time, it will help to complete the Single Market when it comes to using spare parts for repair, by limiting excessive protections still granted in some Member States.

Thierry Breton, Commissioner for Internal Market – 29/11/2022

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_7216]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/intellectual-property-eu-commission-presents-new-rules-for-more-effective-protection/395462/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Opening speech by HRVP Borrell at the Brussels Indo-Pacific Forum[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/opening-speech-by-hrvp-borrell-at-the-brussels-indo-pacific-forum/395460/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

Check against delivery!

Excellencies,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Dear friends,

I am honoured to open this first edition of the Brussels Indo-Pacific Forum.

It is good that the Indo-Pacific is getting greater attention in the European public debate. We certainly need this.

I welcome the contribution that the Centre for Security, Diplomacy and Strategy (CSDS) is making to develop European thinking on the region.

In many ways, the Indo-Pacific region is where the future of our planet and of history will be decided.

Let me give you some figures to illustrate this point:

* The Indo-Pacific creates 60% of global Gross Domestic Product (GDP).

* It is the second largest destination for EU exports, and home to four out of the top ten EU trading partners.

* Between 2011 and 2021, trade with the Indo-Pacific region grew strongly, with an increase of 64% for imports and 44% for exports.

* The EU is the top partner for Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) for the Indo-Pacific region: total FDI in the region was €1 trillion in 2020.

And there is more to come, given the region’s dynamic growth: by 2030, the overwhelming majority – 90% – of the 2.4 billion new members of the middle class will come from this region.

The region holds the arteries of the global economy: one-third of the global maritime trade – by volume – goes through the South China Sea. And 40% of the EU’s trade passes through the Taiwan Strait.

In short, how the region develops is of direct interest to us. And the main question is: Which kind of political model will this region follow? Will the regional order remain open and rules-based? Or will it fall victim to power politics, spheres of influence, and arms races?

We see what is happening in Europe with spheres of influence, war, and power politics.

I often say, to Europeans and to Asians, that we have a stake in each other’s security and a shared interest in upholding the rules-based international order.

In a globalised world, there is no ‘faraway’ and conflicts cannot be separated.

We, in Europe, keep saying that Russia’s war against Ukraine is a frontal attack on the United Nations Charter, against the territorial integrity and the principle of the non-use of force.

That is why it is not ‘just’ a European war, but one that concerns our Asian partners as well.

We can never ‘normalise’ aggression, whether we live in Europe, or in the Indo-Pacific, or anywhere else. We are very comfortable in saying that.

But the reverse is also true: stability in the Taiwan Strait; freedom of navigation through the South China Sea; or missile launches by North Korea.

These are not ‘just’ Asian security issues. They are global security issues, and they concern Europeans directly as much as we say that what is happening in Ukraine should concern them.

We cannot stay in our comfortable position, asking the others to take care of our problems without being concerned with their problems. We cannot separate the challenges geographically.

The short version is that in a globalised world, we cannot be provincial.

And neither can we separate economics from security. We in Europe have often made the mistake of separating the sources of our security from the sources of our economic prosperity.

We must avoid the “traps” of Mercator and mercantilism, thinking that the Indo-Pacific is far away and that we can focus just on trade and investment.

We need an EU strategic approach that covers both the economic and security dimension.

This morning I want to stress three core messages.

First, we need more EU engagement in the Indo-Pacific, especially in the area of security.

Second, we must develop a distinctive role and distinctive offer in the region. There is also a “battle of offers” going on.

Third, the relations between the EU and the Indo-Pacific must remain a two-way street. It is not just about what we can do in and for the region. It is about what we can do together in a dangerous world.

That is true for everybody – I was saying the same messages yesterday at the College-to-College meeting with the African Union – but it is particularly true in the Indo-Pacific area.

On the first message: if you travel to the region, you hear a lot: “We want more from the EU. We want you, Europeans, to be closer, to deliver faster and better”.

They don’t want to be ‘left alone’, as US-China strategic competition increases. They see that there is a strong competition between China and the US, and they do not want to be left alone in front of this competition. I can say the same about the Central Asia countries, with respect to Russia and China.

When I discuss the EU’s role with partners in the region, I sense three perceptions:

* Our strong support for Ukraine has been welcomed by our like-minded friends. And from the others, I believe we have received grudging respect. People see a more geo-strategic Europe emerging. One that is less naïve, ready to pay the price to defend core security principles. Many Asians like this.

* However, partners also want us to pay more attention to the consequences of Russia’s invasion for them, in terms of food and energy security and the economic impact. Some accuse us of double standards, or of not paying enough attention to other conflicts.

* Some believe that our attention on the Indo-Pacific will suffer because of our heavy focus on Ukraine.

Let me stress here today that we cannot and will not do so.

Yes, we need to support Ukraine – and we are. And we are doing more than some people may believe. On top of the €3 billion in military support from the European Peace Facility. EU institutions This is just the amount being provided by the EU institutions. But the Member States on their side are doing much more, bringing the total figure to around €8 billion.

But we also need to handle the global fallout of the war.

And at the same time, we need to take care of all the other strategic issues including those in the Indo-Pacific.

And in the middle of all this is China, with its growing assertiveness. These days we are seeing the growing costs of its zero-Covid policy and the growing concerns of Chinese citizens over the lockdowns.

Beyond zero-Covid, it has become increasingly clear that China is changing, with a growing centralisation of power and a rise in nationalism.

We discussed what all this means for the EU at the Foreign Affairs Council and the European Council last month. We agreed that we must stick with our ‘tryptic’ of approaching China as a partner, an economic competitor and systemic rival.

We cannot look at China only from one angle. Our relations with China are unavoidably complex.

But we also know that the relative weights are shifting. The competitive component of the ‘tryptic’ is growing and becoming the dominant component.

At the same time, we must do our own ‘homework’. I mean that we have to enhance our own resilience and to avoid excessive dependencies.

This is the whole agenda around procurement, subsidies, critical raw materials, due diligence, etc.

Finally, we must work more with the like-minded, enhancing our engagement across the Indo-Pacific, especially on security.

And we are doing in our EU Indo-Pacific Strategy[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/sites/default/files/eu-indo-pacific_factsheet_2021-04_v.5.pdf] [EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific] of September 2021, more than one year ago, we committed ourselves to a “meaningful European naval presence in the region”.

We do not have the 6th fleet like the US does. But we are ready to do more, according to our means.

We have conducted several naval exercises by EUNAVFOR Atalanta, with our Japanese, Indian and Korean partners.

We are also expanding the maritime domain awareness project called “CRIMARIO” from the Indian Ocean to South-East Asia.

And we have recently established a “Coordinated Maritime Presence” in the North-West Indian Ocean, building on our experience in East and West Africa.

This sends a clear message on our intention to further commit to the security of the Indo-Pacific.

Of course, there is more to do. But the days that the EU was just a bystander on Asian security are over, I hope.

This brings me to my second message: the EU as an actor with a distinct role and a distinct offer.

The main strategic trend in the region is the US-China strategic competition: over security, high technologies and regional leadership.

We must be clear on the EU’s position, defending our own views and interests. But we are not equidistant. Indeed, the geographic distance from Brussels to Washington is less than that from Brussels to Beijing. But it is not a matter of geographical distance, but a matter of political distance.

Politically, we share a political system with the US of democracy, accountability, individual rights and open markets. China, in the meantime, is hardening its foreign policy and there is a greater ideological component overall.

Earlier this year, before the start of the war against Ukraine, we had the Russia-China Declaration on their ‘friendship without limits’.

As I said at the time, this is, at heart, a revisionist text, challenging the rules-based international order, centered on the UN and with respect for human rights.

This, we cannot let go unchallenged. So, a big priority for our Indo-Pacific Strategy is stepping up cooperation with our like-minded friends.

That is why we have set up several Strategic Dialogues with our key partners, including Japan.

In fact, this week, the third round of EU-US High-Level consultations on the Indo-Pacific and on China will be held in Washington DC. The EU delegation will be led by the Secretary General of the European External Action Service (EEAS), Stefano Sannino. We want to engage with our American friends to understand better which is our answer to the Indo-Pacific challenges.

But the truth is also that a vast majority of Indo-Pacific and European countries do not want to be trapped into an impossible choice.

They don’t want to have to choose either the US or China. We, like them, don’t want a world that is split into two camps.

So, our logic is to present a distinct and principled stance that is attractive to partners.

In policy terms, we have learned that we must diversify our relations and avoid excessive dependencies.

We all need trusted and reliable partners in strategic domains.

We aim to intensify our cooperation on critical raw materials, especially with Australia. We are ready for such cooperation with Indonesia and others.

On digital issues, we have concluded Digital Partnerships with Japan, South Korea and, hopefully, soon with Singapore. They will not only intensify digital trade but also boost our research efforts in cutting-edge technologies.

On transport, we have recently signed the EU-ASEAN Comprehensive Air Transport Agreement. This is the world’s first bloc-to-bloc agreement, to bolster connectivity among our 37 States. The agreement will lead to more flight options and more competitive prices.

And on energy, we are stepping up our cooperation with partners, especially on hydrogen and Liquified Natural Gas (LNG). We plan to organise a conference in Kuala Lumpur with a number of Indo-Pacific partners next year to push things forward.

My third and final message is this: EU cooperation in and with the Indo-Pacific must be a two-way street.

This is a region where big powers tend to throw their weight around and twist their partners’ arms. That is not how we, as the EU, operate – and I think this is appreciated.

But we must realise that in Asia building relationships takes time. And showing up is everything. So, we need to invest more time to do this.

Also, we must realise that Europeans have as much to receive and learn from the Indo-Pacific region as we have to give. Many solutions for our future are already being designed and tested in this region.

That is why we should listen more to our partners.

This is what happened at the Ministerial Forum on Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/ministerial-forum-cooperation-indo-pacific_en] that we held in Paris last February. The Forum epitomised the notion of learning from each other and building the future together. My intention is to convene another Forum next year, if possible.

For us, the ASEAN is our ‘natural partner’. We have concluded a Strategic Partnership and need to put it to work. In the EU, we are often better at agreeing strategies on paper. But what counts is action.

We are supporting the ASEAN through “soft infrastructure”, such as building the regulatory framework needed for the physical infrastructure.

I look forward to the EU-ASEAN Commemorative Summit in Brussels on 14 December.

This is the first edition of what I hope, and trust, will be many “Brussels Indo-Pacific Fora”.

It is an excellent initiative. We need this in Brussels: more strategic discussions on the big trends and issues, beyond the day-to-day crisis management.

And it is hard to think of an issue that is more fundamental to our long-term security and prosperity than the Indo-Pacific.

That is why, we need the best ideas for our cooperation which I am sure you will discuss.

My staff will remain throughout the day.

I look forward to hearing the conclusions of your discussions today.

Link to the video: https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-233973[https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-233973]

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/indo-pacific-opening-speech-high-representativevice-president-josep-borrell-brussels-indo_en]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/opening-speech-by-hrvp-borrell-at-the-brussels-indo-pacific-forum/395460/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Expo 2030/Odesa: Zelenskyy adresses International Bureau of Expositions[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/expo-2030-odesa-zelenskyy-adresses-international-bureau-of-expositions/395458/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Kyiv, 29 November 2022

Mr. President!

Mr. Secretary General!

Ladies and Gentlemen!

I am honoured to present Ukraine’s candidate for hosting World’s Fair 2030. To present Odesa – and the entire Black Sea region.

Why Odesa? Why Ukraine? Why the Black Sea?

This year, Ukraine has become the world’s role model of bravery. Billions of people from every continent could see what Ukrainian invincibility means, why Russian terror will not achieve its goal.

And they will see how Ukraine becomes a role model of reconstruction. Neither winter cold, nor darkness nor other manifestations of terror will help Russia conquer Ukrainians.

The time of Ukrainian victory shall come. And then…

The reconstruction of our country will become the most momentous economic, technological, and humanitarian project of our time.

Even now, we engage dozens of our partner countries to rebuild Ukraine.

The total volume of work amounts to over a trillion dollars.

Even now, we create a special patronage system.

The system will enable leading countries and companies to take patronage over the reconstruction of Ukrainian regions, cities, industries, and enterprises. Not just to recover them but to show that a free world and conscious countries are always more powerful than any tyranny and aggression.

We can already see the interest in patronage from France and Great Britain, the Netherlands and Germany, Denmark and Finland, Italy and Türkiye, Poland and Portugal, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, Latvia and Estonia, Switzerland and Slovakia, Austria and Greece, Canada and the United States of America, Japan and Australia. And this is not a full list of the countries.

In 2030, Ukrainian reconstruction will have already shown a significant part of the projected results, and Ukraine will be the country to demonstrate what humanity is capable of when all peoples cooperate for peace and security, for development, and a more comfortable future for all.

And this is, by the way, a fundamental meaning behind the World’s Fairs.

So, the reality of our country and the spirit of the World’s Fairs will ally. Specifically in Ukraine, specifically in 2030.

Even now, we have already proved that the Black Sea region is one of the key guarantors of the world’s stability.

Our Odesa is that big port that ensures the social well-being of dozens of countries in Africa, Asia, and Europe.

This year, we have proved it with our Grain Export Initiative.

We will solidify it with another international humanitarian project “Grain From Ukraine”. It will help recover food security in the poorest countries that are balancing at the edge of famine and destabilization – Ethiopia, Somalia, Yemen, and others. These and many other countries will be widely aware of why Odesa and the Black Sea are so significant. We will save millions of people – Odesa will save millions of people thanks to the work of its ports.

We are already integrating Ukraine into the European Union. We have already become a part of the EU Single Market. We will become a part of the EU institutions. We have already joined the EU Single Energy System. We will become those whose potential in “green” energy will replace dirty Russian fossil fuel for Europe. We have already helped Europe to overcome many internal controversies and actually unite – unite in its actions. Enhanced by Ukraine, Europe will become a truly independent and really solid global player.

2030 is the time when we will be able to celebrate it. To celebrate it together with all Europeans.

Is it fair that the World’s Fairs have never been hosted in this part of Europe? Many world regions have already been represented. Europe had the honour to host the World’s Fairs in different years. But not the East of Europe.

We should change it. And Odesa will be a perfect place to do it.

The city that through the centuries has been tied economically and culturally with Türkiye and Romania, Georgia and Bulgaria, Moldova and other countries of our region as well as many world’s regions.

The city that has always been multinational and multicultural – the city of diversity.

The city that may host the World’s Fair for the first time but has been connected with the world for centuries.

Ladies and Gentlemen!

When you visit Ukraine and our Odesa in 2030, you will sense the power, freedom, and culture of not just one country and one city. You will experience the potential of the entire humanity.

That is why it is 2030. That is why it is Odesa, Ukraine, and the Black Sea. That is why it is the World’s Fair.

May the victory of freedom and our striving for peace become widely seen!

Source – President of Ukraine[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/ukrayina-stane-vzircem-vidbudovi-prezident-zvernuvsya-do-gen-79513]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/expo-2030-odesa-zelenskyy-adresses-international-bureau-of-expositions/395458/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Swedish Foreign Minister Billström in Bucharest for meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/swedish-foreign-minister-billstrom-in-bucharest-for-meeting-of-nato-foreign-ministers/395456/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Stockholm, 29 November 2022

Minister for Foreign Affairs Tobias Billström is in Bucharest on 29–30 November to take part in the meeting of NATO Ministers of Foreign Affairs, marking Sweden’s first time participating as an applicant country (invitee).

“It’s important for us to be involved and contribute as a future full NATO member. Sweden and Finland will be more secure as NATO members, just as NATO will be stronger with Sweden and Finland as full members. It’s a win-win situation. I’m looking forward to speaking with my NATO colleagues about our ratification process. It is also valuable that the NATO ministers will have this opportunity to meet the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine,” says Mr Billström.

Mr Billström is taking part in all of the sessions in which current security policy issues are being discussed, and will have the opportunity to meet his counterparts in the NATO circle. Sweden’s only previous participation was in an open session for NATO’s partner countries. Ukraine is being represented as a partner country by Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba.

Sweden was formally invited to join NATO in June at the 2022 NATO Summit in Madrid. As the Bucharest meeting takes place five months later, 28 of 30 NATO members have now ratified Sweden’s NATO membership, showing the strength of support for the country’s application. This meeting is yet another opportunity for Mr Billström to discuss Sweden’s and Finland’s future NATO membership.

About the meeting

The meeting of NATO Ministers of Foreign Affairs takes place twice a year to discuss current security issues. It is a meeting of the North Atlantic Council (NAC), NATO’s principal decision-making body, at foreign minister level.

Source – Swedish Government[https://www.government.se/press-releases/2022/11/minister-for-foreign-affairs-tobias-billstrom-in-bucharest-for-meeting-of-nato-ministers-of-foreign-affairs/]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/swedish-foreign-minister-billstrom-in-bucharest-for-meeting-of-nato-foreign-ministers/395456/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Finland: Ministry of Defence decided on protection installations for communication station A[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-ministry-of-defence-decided-on-protection-installations-for-communication-station-a/395454/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Helsinki, 29 November 2022

The Defence Forces received a mandate from the Ministry of Defence to order from Conlog Oy training in the design, implementation, documentation, use and maintenance of protection installations for communication station A, a 20 feet long container.

The overall value of the procurement, without value added tax, is EUR 39.1 million. The procurement is part of the Defence Forces’ development programme.

The domestic employment effect of the contract will be about 113 person-years.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/ministry-of-defence-decided-on-procurement-of-domestic-protection-installations-for-communication-station-a]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-ministry-of-defence-decided-on-protection-installations-for-communication-station-a/395454/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

São Tomé e Príncipe: EU Spokesperson on the coup attempt[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sao-tome-e-principe-eu-spokesperson-on-the-coup-attempt/395452/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The European Union firmly condemns the attempted coup d’état on 24-25 November in São Tomé e Príncipe only ten days after the swearing in of the new legitimate Government.

The European Union has been in close contact with the authorities of São Tomé e Príncipe and continues to monitor closely the situation.

We are confident that the Santomean authorities will shed light on the facts and hold those responsible to account, in compliance with the human rights and democratic values and standards that the EU and São Tomé e Príncipe share.

The European Union calls on all political and social actors to work together to maintain peace and stability in the country. It reiterates its aspiration to further deepen relations with São Tomé e Príncipe, a long-standing partner, and expand the well-consolidated and beneficial cooperation in all areas of mutual interest, including protecting and strengthening democracy, human rights, and the rule of law.

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/s%C3%A3o-tom%C3%A9-e-pr%C3%ADncipe-statement-spokesperson-coup-attempt_en]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sao-tome-e-principe-eu-spokesperson-on-the-coup-attempt/395452/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

High-level Forum on legal pathways to protection[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/high-level-forum-on-legal-pathways-to-protection/395450/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

Today Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson will host the second High-level Forum to advance the work on safe and legal pathways for those people in need of protection. The Forum promotes closer cooperation with partner countries, UNHCR, IOM, civil and business organisations. It brings together EU Member States, the US, Canada, and the UK. The goal is to coordinate efforts to provide solutions for vulnerable refugees around the world. The discussion will focus on admission programmes, such as resettlement and humanitarian admission and also on promoting new labour pathways. The event will be live streamed here[https://webcast.ec.europa.eu/high-level-forum-on-legal-pathways-to-protection-2022-11-29] at 15h30 CET. More information will be made available in a press release[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_7248] once the Forum has concluded.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_7275]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/high-level-forum-on-legal-pathways-to-protection/395450/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Mergers: EU Commission clears acquisition of De Jong and DJV by Stora Enso[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-clears-acquisition-of-de-jong-and-djv-by-stora-enso/395447/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The European Commission has approved, under the EU Merger Regulation, the acquisition of De Jong Papier Holding (‘De Jong’) and DJV Holding (‘DJV’), both of the Netherlands, by Stora Enso AB of Sweden.

De Jong and DJV are mainly active in the production and supply of corrugated packaging in Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and the UK, where they have production facilities. Stora Enso develops, produces and offers wood and biomass-based solutions and services. It is active in the production of both corrugated case materials and corrugated packaging, amongst other things, with several production plants throughout the European Economic Area.

The Commission concluded that the proposed acquisition would raise no competition concerns, given the moderate combined market positions resulting from the transaction and the very limited vertical links between the companies’ activities.

The transaction was examined under the simplified merger review procedure. More information is available on the Commission’s competition[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/index_en] website, in the public case register[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/index.cfm?clear=1&policy_area_id=1%2C2%2C3] under the case number M.10948[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/case_details.cfm?proc_code=2_M_10948].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_7275]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-clears-acquisition-of-de-jong-and-djv-by-stora-enso/395447/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Antitrust: EU Commission fines styrene purchasers €157m in cartel settlement[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/antitrust-eu-commission-fines-styrene-purchasers-e157m-in-cartel-settlement/395445/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The European Commission has fined Sunpor, Synbra, Synthomer, Synthos and Trinseo a total of €157 million for participating in a cartel concerning purchases on the styrene monomer merchant market. INEOS was not fined as it revealed the cartel to the Commission under the leniency programme. All six companies admitted their involvement in the cartel and agreed to settle the case.

The six buyers of styrene exchanged sensitive commercial information and coordinated their negotiation strategy on an industry reference price of styrene (the Styrene Monthly Contract Price or ‘SMCP’). Unlike in most cartels where companies conspire to increase their sales prices, the six companies colluded to lower an element of the price of styrene.

The Commission’s investigation revealed the existence of a single and continuous infringement in the European Economic Area, spanning from 1 May 2012 to 30 June 2018.

The fines were set on the basis of the Commission’s 2006 Guidelines on fines[http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_IP-06-857_en.htm?locale=en]. All parties, except one, cooperated with the Commission under the leniency programme (2006 Leniency Notice[http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_IP-06-1705_en.htm?locale=en]). INEOS received full immunity for revealing the cartel. Sunpor, Synthomer Synthos and Trinseo benefited from a reduction of their fine for their cooperation with the Commission’s investigation

Executive Vice-President Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy, said:

“With our decision today we fine six companies which participated in a purchasing cartel of styrene, a key input for many chemical products. The companies colluded and exchanged information on an industry reference price for styrene. Their plan was to influence the reference price negotiations to their advantage to buy styrene at a lower price. Purchasing cartels are not the most common type of cartels. Still, they are prohibited under our EU competition rules. They distort the competitive process which should be based on companies’ independent decisions, and we will not tolerate them.”

A press release is available online[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_7168].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_7275]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/antitrust-eu-commission-fines-styrene-purchasers-e157m-in-cartel-settlement/395445/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission takes action to ensure complete and timely transposition of EU directives[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-takes-action-to-ensure-complete-and-timely-transposition-of-eu-directives/395443/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The Commission is adopting a package of infringement decisions due to the absence of communication by Member States of measures taken to transpose EU directives into national law (referred to as ‘non-communication infringements’). The Commission is sending a letter of formal notice to those Member States who have failed to notify national measures transposing directives, whose transposition deadline expired recently.

In this case, there are 15 Member States who have not yet notified full transposition measures for 14 EU directives in the fields of environment and transport. Member States concerned now have two months to reply to the letters of formal notice and complete their transposition, or the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

See more details on our Press corner[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/inf_22_7071].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_7275]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-takes-action-to-ensure-complete-and-timely-transposition-of-eu-directives/395443/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission welcomes political agreement on the new EU product safety rules[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-welcomes-political-agreement-on-the-new-eu-product-safety-rules/395440/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The European Commission welcomes the provisional political agreement reached yesterday between the European Parliament and the Council on the core elements of the Regulation on general product safety, following the Commission’s proposal[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_3242] in June 2021. This agreement will provide new rules to ensure that only safe products are sold to consumers in the EU, no matter whether they are sold in shops or on online marketplaces, and no matter whether they are produced in the EU or elsewhere. The Regulation will also address risks related to new technology products, such as cybersecurity risks, and introduce product safety rules for online marketplaces. The new rules are aligned and consistent with the Digital Services Act (DSA).

Vice-President for Values and Transparency, Věra Jourová, said:

“Consumers have a right to know that they are using safe products. Too many dangerous products remain on the Union market, with an annual detriment caused by dangerous products estimated at EUR 11.5 billion. I welcome the provisional agreement on the Commission’s proposal for a General Product Safety Regulation – we are reaching the finish line on this important file, a key element to help us better protect European consumers.”

Commissioner for Justice, Didier Reynders, added:

“Yesterday’s agreement takes us a step closer to a stronger and safer single market for consumers in the European Union, which will be beneficial for us all. The General Product Safety Regulation will ensure a level playing field for all companies selling to EU consumers, provide for clear rules for all businesses and enable better enforcement by authorities. For instance, third-country companies that export products to the EU will need to designate a responsible contact person in the EU. In this way, it will also make those companies accountable for the safety of the products that are bringing into the internal market.”

The European Parliament and the Council will now need to formally adopt yesterday’s political agreement.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_7275]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-welcomes-political-agreement-on-the-new-eu-product-safety-rules/395440/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

European skills: Launch of a large-scale partnership on skills in retail[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/european-skills-launch-of-a-large-scale-partnership-on-skills-in-retail/395438/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

Today, with the support of the Commission, retail employers and trade union associations Eurocommerce and Uni Europa have set up a large-scale skills partnership for the retail industrial ecosystem. The ambition of the partnership is to allow people and businesses to acquire new skills for the digital and green transitions of Europe’s economy. The partnership will focus on promoting lifelong learning in the retail sector, help to share best practices as well as monitor available and needed skills.

Commissioner for the Internal Market Thierry Breton said:

“This large-scale partnership under the Pact for Skills will help retail businesses embrace the green and digital transition, increase their resilience and remain competitive. Consumers will also benefit from a better performing retail ecosystem”.

Commissioner for Jobs and Social Rights Nicolas Schmit, said:

“We welcome the new large-scale skills partnership for the ecosystem with the largest workforce in the EU. The Pact for Skills brings together all relevant players in the retail and wholesale value chain, to work together and tackle skills challenges in an inclusive and fair way.

Following commitments in other industrial ecosystems[https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1534&langId=en], this partnership is a concrete implementation of the Pact for Skills[https://ec.europa.eu/social/PactforSkills], one of the flagship initiatives under the European Skills Agenda[https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=89&furtherNews=yes&newsId=9723&langId=en] for sustainable competitiveness, social fairness and resilience. Since its launch, nearly 1000 organisations have pledged to reskill over 6 million people in Europe. This initiative also contributes to the EU-level headline target that by 2030, at least 60% of all adults should participate in training every year.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_7275]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/european-skills-launch-of-a-large-scale-partnership-on-skills-in-retail/395438/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Spain and Croatia will receive substantial financial support under EMFAF for 2021-2027[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/spain-and-croatia-will-receive-substantial-financial-support-under-emfaf-for-2021-2027/395436/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The Commission has adopted the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund[https://ec.europa.eu/oceans-and-fisheries/funding/emfaf_en] (EMFAF) programmes for Spain and Croatia. The total amount of the allocated funds for Spain, which cover this six-year period, is €1.57 billion, of which the EU contribution accounts for €1.12 billion.

The total amount of the allocated funds for Croatia is €348 million over the next six years, of which the EU contribution accounts for €243.6 million.

The programmes’ allocations will be mostly dedicated to sustainable fisheries, sustainable aquaculture and processing as well as to sustainable blue economy in coastal regions and the strengthening of the international ocean governance.

For Spain, the programme will also put a strong focus on the Canary Islands, supporting this outermost region on structural investments particularly targeting the small-scale fisheries businesses, making the profession more attractive. For Croatia, the programme will reinforce the environmental actions undertaken under the Croatian prioritised action framework for Natura 2000.

Commissioner for Environment, Oceans and Fisheries, Virginijus Sinkevičius, said:

“I am pleased to announce the adoption of the EMFAF programmes for Spain and Croatia. The EMFAF programme for Spain is the largest Member State programme and will play a crucial role for the future of the fishing sector in Spain. It will emphasise on the development of an ecosystem-based management, improve digitalisation and energy efficiency and will train professionals accordingly. It will open new perspectives for the sustainable development of this important sector in Spain and at the same time ensure the protection and restoration of biodiversity. The programme for Croatia will significantly accelerate the transition towards sustainable use of natural resources, support the protection and restoration of aquatic biodiversity, as well as promote low-carbon aquaculture and processing.”

More information is available here[https://oceans-and-fisheries.ec.europa.eu/news/spain-will-receive-eu112-billion-european-maritime-fisheries-and-aquaculture-fund-2021-2027-2022-11-29_en] and here[https://oceans-and-fisheries.ec.europa.eu/news/croatia-will-receive-eu2436-million-european-maritime-fisheries-and-aquaculture-fund-2021-2027-2022-11-29_en]. Spain’s[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_6964] and Croatia’s[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5065] Partnership Agreements are also available.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_7275]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/spain-and-croatia-will-receive-substantial-financial-support-under-emfaf-for-2021-2027/395436/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Drone Strategy 2.0: Creating a large-scale European drone market[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/drone-strategy-2-0-creating-a-large-scale-european-drone-market/395428/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

The European Drone Strategy 2.0[https://transport.ec.europa.eu/document/download/1cb5fb4f-4252-4f97-abf4-c4a167b1c7d2_en?filename=COM_2022_652_drone_strategy_2.0.pdf], adopted today by the Commission, sets out a vision for the further development of the European drone market. It builds on the EU’s safety framework for operating and setting the technical requirements of drones, which is the world’s most advanced. The new Strategy lays out how Europe can pursue large-scale commercial drone operations while offering new opportunities in the sector.

From jobs to new mobility solutions

Thanks to the EU’s comprehensive regulatory framework, drones have flown safely for hundreds of thousands of hours in Europe’s skies, for example surveying infrastructure, monitoring oil spills, or sampling soil. Projects on using drones for medical air deliveries, transporting medical samples between healthcare services are also making good progress. The implementation of the ‘U-space’ in January 2023, a European system unique in the world to manage drone traffic safely, will lay the ground for increased operations.

Before pushing ahead with these innovative technologies, the Commission wants to ensure that society supports drones. To address concerns over noise, safety and privacy, the Strategy therefore calls for national, regional and local municipalities to ensure that drone services are aligned with citizens’ needs.

The Strategy envisions the following drone services becoming part of European life by 2030:

* Emergency services, mapping, imaging, inspection and surveillance within the applicable legal frameworks by civil drones, as well as the urgent delivery of small consignments, such as biological samples or medicines.

* Innovative Air Mobility services, such as air taxis, providing regular transport services for passengers, initially with a pilot on board, but with the ultimate aim of fully automating operations.

Unleashing the potential of the EU drone market and services requires the identification of critical technology building blocks, such as artificial intelligence, robotics, semi-conductors and EU space services and mobile telecommunications. This will help the EU build an innovative and competitive drone sector, reducing strategic dependencies.

The Strategy also identifies areas for synergies between civil and defence drones, and for increased counter-drone capabilities and system resilience.

19 actions for tomorrow’s drone market

The Commission will now launch work on the Strategy’s 19 operational, technical and financial flagship actions to build the right regulatory and commercial environment for tomorrow’s drone air space and market:

* Adopting common rules for airworthiness, and new training requirements for remote and eVTOL (manned electric Vertical Take Off and Landing) aircraft pilots.

* Funding the creation of an online platform to support local stakeholders and industry implementing sustainable Innovative Air Mobility.

* Developing a Strategic Drone Technology Road map to identify priority areas for research and innovation, to reduce existing strategic dependencies and avoid new ones arising.

* Defining criteria for a voluntary cybersecurity-approved drone label.

This work will prepare the way for large-scale commercial operations and ensure that Europe benefits from synergies between the civil, security and military use of drones and related technologies, including counter-drone solutions.

Background

The Commission’s Sustainable and Smart Mobility Strategy [https://transport.ec.europa.eu/transport-themes/mobility-strategy_en]announced the preparation of an updated European Drone Strategy by the end of 2022. A Staff Working Document [https://transport.ec.europa.eu/document/download/a37d608a-a433-4714-8d23-1fe28ea892b3_en?filename=SWD_2022_366_drone_strategy_2.0.pdf]assessing the challenges faced by the drone industry, as well as the analysis and data underpinning the new Drone Strategy 2.0, accompanies this Communication.

The Commission has been building the foundations of a comprehensive EU policy on drones since 2014. Commission Implementing Regulation 2019/947 [https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32019R0947]and Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/945 [https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32019R0945]contain detailed rules and procedures for the operation of unmanned aircraft, and set the requirements for the design and manufacture of unmanned aircraft systems. Since 2003, the EU has invested almost €980 million in the development or use of drones for innovative applications. It has funded 320 projects relating drones under its research and innovation programmes.

For More Information

Questions and Answers[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_7077]

Staff Working Document[https://transport.ec.europa.eu/document/download/a37d608a-a433-4714-8d23-1fe28ea892b3_en?filename=SWD_2022_366_drone_strategy_2.0.pdf]

European Drone Strategy 2.0[https://transport.ec.europa.eu/document/download/1cb5fb4f-4252-4f97-abf4-c4a167b1c7d2_en?filename=COM_2022_652_drone_strategy_2.0.pdf]

Quote

With the arrival of a new generation of electrically powered aircraft capable of operating in an urban and regional environment, we need to ensure that, beyond maintaining the safety of operations in our skies, conditions meet both the operators’ commercial needs and citizens’ expectations with regard to privacy and security. Today’s Strategy not only widens Europe’s capacity to pursue large-scale commercial drone operations but also offers new opportunities, in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises. With the right framework in place, the drone services market in Europe could be worth €14.5 billion, and create 145,000 jobs, by 2030.

Adina Vălean, Commissioner for Transport – 29/11/2022

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_7076]

Q&A: Drone Strategy 2.0

Brussels, 29 November 2022

1. Have drone operations been regulated at EU level so far?

Following the Commission’s Aviation Strategy of 2015[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52015DC0598], the EU adopted a comprehensive drone regulatory framework, contributing to the development of this promising sector. Since 2018, all drones, irrespective of their weight, are subject to harmonised safety rules regulating drone operations[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32018R1139]. In addition, to ensure safe drone operations in airspace, the Commission adopted several Regulations providing an air traffic management system for drones.

These rules are the cornerstone of the new EU drone regulatory framework, facilitating the development of the drone industry and the drone services market.

2. For what kinds of operations are drones already used and why are they of economic importance?

Drones are already used as tools on a daily basis in an ever broadening array of economic sectors, such as agriculture, construction, surveillance, film-making, healthcare, emergency medicine, energy, the environment, public safety and security.

They are already used as daily tools for surveying infrastructure for safety improvements, monitoring of oil spills and crops, research data collection, and improving urban planning. Advanced projects on medical air mobility and testing of use case applications for search & rescue are also underway.

Drones could be used in the future as platforms for communication hubs, or for weather and pollution monitoring, for example, as well as for the maintenance of renewable energy installations, especially for offshore wind.

In the transport sector, the use of drones for deliveries is already being tested in many countries. The first pilot trials in passenger transport are expected to take place in the EU in just a few years.

With the right framework in place, the drone services market in Europe could by 2030 reach a value of €14.5 billion, with a compound annual growth rate of 12.3%. This would create 145,000 jobs in the EU. The different segments of this market are constantly growing, attracting new companies, including SMEs, and increasing operations.

3. What has the Commission already done in support of the drone industry?

The Commission has since 2007 supported research and innovation to develop new drone technologies, including through the SESAR research and innovation programmes. Since 2021, thanks to a European partnership between the private and the public sector[https://www.sesarju.eu/], the EU is investing more than €1.6 billion to accelerate the creation of a Digital European Sky, contributing to the safe integration of drone traffic within European airspace.

4. What could a future with drones look like?

The Drone Strategy 2.0 is guided by a 2030 vision for the use of drones in the lives of Europeans.

* Drones will be used to provide numerous services to the benefit of diversified civilian and defence end-users, including citizens, organisations, Member States and industry. Drone aerial operations will include emergency services, inspections and surveillance operations within the applicable legal frameworks, and will involve gathering data and goods delivery.

* Innovative Air Mobility services, such as air taxis, will start providing regular transport services for passengers, initially with a pilot on board, but with the ultimate aim to fully automate operations. Drone services will effectively integrate or complement existing transportation systems and contribute to the decarbonisation of the transport system by providing an alternative to carbon-intensive modes of transport, while minimising their impact on the environment throughout their life cycle.

5. Why include defence aspects within the scope of the Drone Strategy 2.0?

The ‘Action plan on synergies between civil, defence and space industries’ adopted in February 2020 highlighted the importance of synergies between the civil and defence drone industries, including counter-drone technologies. This is an important success factor for the competitiveness of the European drone eco-system, as well as the EU’s defence capabilities.

6. Does the strategy also address the security dimension?

The threat of non-cooperative drones is a serious concern in Europe. This is why the Commission introduced in 2020 new policy actions to counter these possible threats. They are foreseen in the EU Security Union Strategy [https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_1379]and the Counter-Terrorism Agenda[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52020DC0795]. Moreover, the Commission proposed this year to introduce obligations for Member States and critical entities to conduct risk assessments and take appropriate measures to ensure their resilience against identified risks, such as terrorist attacks. To ensure a coherent technological development, the Commission will adopt a counter-drone package, to address malicious and non-cooperative use of drones in the EU airspace, which will tie together all the different counter-drone initiatives in the EU. Drones and related control units constitute highly advanced and complex platforms and, like any similar digital system, they are vulnerable to hacking and misuse. For this reason, the Commission will work towards increasing drone system resilience by defining criteria for a voluntary ‘European Trusted Drone’ label that would allow any end-user to operate such trusted drones in confidence. The label builds on and will be compatible with the Cyber Resilience Act proposal.

7. What are the main market segments of the EU drone services market?

The drone services market includes two interlinked areas:

* On the civil side, the new Innovative Aerial Services (IAS), includes two segments:

* ‘Aerial Operations’ (surveillance within the applicable legal frameworks, inspection, mapping, imaging, …), and

* ‘Innovative Air Mobility’ (IAM), covering international, regional and Urban Air Mobility. Although the first IAM operations are expected to be conducted with manned electric Vertical Take Off and Landing (eVTOL) aircraft, such operations will likely be performed on similar platforms that are remotely piloted in the future, and then fully autonomous.

* The drone sector also includes the defence/military dimension with a view to creating technological synergies between civil, security and defence sectors.

8. Who are the main actors in the EU drone market ?

The drone industrial ecosystem comprises several, interlinked segments:

* Drone operators using drones to provide services or to transport goods or people.

* Drone manufacturers producing hardware, and producers of other payloads to be integrated within drones, e.g., for filming, inspection, cargo, monitoring or measuring purposes.

* Technology providers for the platform developing equipment and software systems for communication, flight control, situational awareness, or to enable autonomous operations.

* Distributors selling or renting finished drones to third companies.

* Ground infrastructure operators such as vertiports and airports, Air traffic management suppliers (e.g. ANSPs, U-space service providers, Common Information Service Providers) and finally,

* Telecommunication infrastructure providers, as well as navigation and surveillance infrastructure providers.

9. What is the U-space?

The ‘U-space’ (‘U’ for Unmanned) is a European system being developed to manage drone traffic. It will be operational as of January 2023, increase airspace management capabilities and ensure safe and efficient access to airspace for a large number of drones.

10. When will we see ‘flying taxis’ operating in urban areas?

Air taxis belong to the category of ‘Innovative Air Mobility’ (IAM) services. They provide regular transport services for passengers and goods and allow to cut down travel time. Until now, air taxis have been operated by a pilot but one of the key objectives of today’s Strategy is to fully automate these small aircraft. The Olympic Games in Paris in 2024 is one of the target dates for certain operators to start such pilotless transport services, but other initiatives are already underway in several European cities.

For More Information

Press release[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_7076]

taff Working Document[https://transport.ec.europa.eu/document/download/a37d608a-a433-4714-8d23-1fe28ea892b3_en?filename=SWD_2022_366_drone_strategy_2.0.pdf]

European Drone Strategy 2.0[https://transport.ec.europa.eu/document/download/1cb5fb4f-4252-4f97-abf4-c4a167b1c7d2_en?filename=COM_2022_652_drone_strategy_2.0.pdf]

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/QANDA_22_7077]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/drone-strategy-2-0-creating-a-large-scale-european-drone-market/395428/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Dismantling human trafficking: Eurojust assists Hungary and Switzerland[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/dismantling-human-trafficking-eurojust-assists-hungary-and-switzerland/395424/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

The Hague, 28 November 2022

Supported by Eurojust and Europol, judicial and law enforcement authorities in Hungary and Switzerland have dismantled a criminal network involved in trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. During an action day, four suspects were arrested and four locations searched in the two countries involved. Seizures include a high-value vehicle, and HUF 3 million (approximately EUR 7,300) and CHF 2,000 (approximately EUR 2,000) in cash.

The victims are young Hungarian women from underprivileged backgrounds. The suspects allegedly sent the victims to Switzerland where they were forced to enter into prostitution. The victims were under permanent control of the perpetrators.

The case was opened at Eurojust in January 2022 at the request of the Swiss authorities. The Agency supported the authorities in Hungary and Switzerland in setting up a joint investigation team (JIT) into the case in June 2022. Two coordination meetings were also hosted by Eurojust to facilitate judicial cooperation and provide support for the coordinated investigative efforts.

Europol facilitated the information exchange and provided operational analytical support.

During a joint action day on 22 November, four suspects were arrested, two in Hungary and two in Switzerland. A total of four house searches (two in Hungary and two in Switzerland) were carried out.

A high-value vehicle, HUF 3 million (approximately EUR 7,300) and CHF 2,000 (approximately EUR 2,000) in cash, jewellery, cell phones, electronic devices and 7 real estate properties were seized in Hungary.

The Hungarian law enforcement agency identified and interrogated three potential victims of the criminal group.

The following authorities took part in this investigation:

* Hungary: Prosecution Office of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and National Bureau of Investigation (THB Unit)

* Switzerland: Law enforcement authority of the Canton Zürich in Switzerland

Press release on the Eurojust website[https://www.eurojust.europa.eu/news/eurojust-assists-hungary-and-switzerland-dismantling-human-trafficking-network]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/dismantling-human-trafficking-eurojust-assists-hungary-and-switzerland/395424/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Support to French and Belgian authorities against large-scale drug trafficking – Eurojust[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/support-to-french-and-belgian-authorities-against-large-scale-drug-trafficking-eurojust/395422/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

28 November 2022

Eurojust and Europol assisted the French and Belgian authorities in a recent action day against an organised crime group (OCG) suspected of large-scale drug trafficking, leading to seven arrests. The OCG is managed from Dubai, where two high-value targets had already been arrested.

In addition, in Belgium, two more suspects currently in custody are also linked to the French investigations. Information obtained by intercepting the encrypted communication tool SkyECC proved to be essential to organising the action day. Eurojust supported actions to dismantle SkyECC last year.

Investigations into the OCG were the follow-up of several seizures of in total around 2 000 kilograms of cocaine, arriving from Latin America to Europe by ship, and the kidnapping of a Belgian-based citizen, who has ties with the OCG trafficking cocaine via the port of Antwerp. The investigations revealed links to the Dubai-based leaders of the OCG.

Eurojust organised four coordination meetings to prepare for the operations, which were simultaneously rolled out by the French and Belgian authorities. The Agency furthermore coordinated the action day and provided cross-border judicial support to the authorities involved.

In France, the authorities involved were the National Jurisdiction against Organised Crime (JUNALCO) and the French Anti-Drug Office (OFAST). In Belgium, the Public Prosecutor’s Office of Brussels (Parket Brussel/Parquet de Bruxelles), Investigative Judge Brussels (Onderzoeksrechter Brussel/Juge d’Instruction de Bruxelles), and Federal Police (Federale Politie/Police Fédéral) rolled out the action day.

Press release on the Eurojust website[https://www.eurojust.europa.eu/news/support-french-and-belgian-authorities-action-against-large-scale-drug-trafficking]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/support-to-french-and-belgian-authorities-against-large-scale-drug-trafficking-eurojust/395422/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Frontex Executive Director: MEPs to quiz candidates[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/frontex-executive-director-meps-to-quiz-candidates/395411/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 28 November 2022

The EP Civil Liberties Committee is organising a hearing on Wednesday to assess the short-listed candidates for the post of Frontex Executive Director.

The three candidates shortlisted by the European Commission on the basis of the published vacancy[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.CA.2022.238.01.0001.01.ENG&toc=OJ%3AC%3A2022%3A238A%3ATOC] – Terezija Gras from Croatia, Aija Kalnaja from Latvia, and Hans Leijtens from the Netherlands – will appear before the committee and reply to MEPs questions.

When: Wednesday 30 November 2022, 09:00 – 10:30 CET

Where: European Parliament in Brussels, Spaak Building, room 3C50

You can follow the debate here[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/webstreaming/libe-committee-meeting_20221130-0900-COMMITTEE-LIBE] (live-stream and video on-demand).

Background

As foreseen by the Frontex rules[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32019R1896], the selected candidates have been invited to make a statement and answer questions from members. Following the hearing, the opinion on the candidates will be presented to the Frontex Management board, responsible for the appointment of the Executive Director. MEPs may note their preference for a particular candidate and this would have to be taken into account by the agency’s board when making a decision. Should it decide to not appoint the Parliament’s preferred candidate, it would have to justify it in writing.

The position of the Executive Director became vacant following the resignation[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220502IPR28410/frontex-statement-by-civil-liberties-committee-chair] of Fabrice Leggeri in April 2022, with Aija Kalnaja currently in ad interim capacity.

In October, MEPs held a plenary debate[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/CRE-9-2022-10-17-ITM-013_EN.html] on Frontex’s responsibility for fundamental rights violations at EU’s external borders, in light of the report by the anti-fraud EU agency OLAF.

Further information

* Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/libe/home.html]

* European Parliament scrutiny of Frontex [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/BRIE/2021/698816/EPRS_BRI(2021)698816_EN.pdf]

* Frontex Scrutiny Group : Report on the fact-finding investigation on Frontex concerning alleged fundamental rights violations (Working document) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220322IPR25997/frontex-scrutiny-group-lena-dupont-appointed-chair]

* Frontex Scrutiny Group : Annex to the report [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/cmsdata/238300/16072021%20draft%20ANNEX%20to%20report%20FSWG.pdf]

* Frontex: MEPs refuse to discharge EU border agency over its management in 2020 [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20221014IPR43210/frontex-meps-refuse-to-discharge-eu-border-agency-over-its-management-in-2020]

* Frontex Management Board [https://frontex.europa.eu/about-frontex/who-we-are/management-board/]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/frontex-executive-director-meps-to-quiz-candidates/395411/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU lawmakers reach deal on better protecting online shoppers and vulnerable consumers[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-lawmakers-reach-deal-on-better-protecting-online-shoppers-and-vulnerable-consumers/395409/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 29 November 2022

* More effective procedures for product recalls and removal of dangerous goods online

* Risks for the most vulnerable consumers, like children, to be taken into account

* Costs of preventable accidents from unsafe products estimated at 11.5 billion euro per year

The agreed rules aim to ensure that all kinds of products in the EU, whether sold online or in traditional shops, comply with the highest safety requirements.

On Monday night, negotiators from Parliament and Council reached a provisional political agreement to update the EU’s rules on product safety[https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/product-safety-and-requirements/product-safety/consumer-product-safety_en] of non-food consumer products. The new regulation on General Product Safety (GPSR) aims to address product safety challenges in online shopping (in 2021, 73% consumers bought products online[https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/products-eurostat-news/-/ddn-20220202-1]).

Obligations of economic operators and safety assessment

Under the agreed rules, a product can be sold only if there is an economic operator (such as the manufacturer, importer, distributоr) established in the EU, who is responsible for its safety. When assessing product safety, Parliament included measures to guarantee that risks to the most vulnerable consumers (e.g. children), gender aspects and cybersecurity risks are taken into account.

Removal of dangerous goods online

The GPSR introduces obligations for online marketplaces, as those under the Digital Services Act[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220701IPR34364/digital-services-landmark-rules-adopted-for-a-safer-open-online-environment], including designating a single point of contact for national surveillance authorities and consumers. National surveillance authorities will be able to order online marketplaces to remove or disable access to offers of dangerous products without undue delay and in any event within two working days. Providers of online marketplaces will have to make reasonable efforts to check randomly for dangerous products.

Recall, replacement and refunds

The agreed legislation improves the products recall procedure, as return rates remain low, with an estimated third of EU consumers[https://ec.europa.eu/info/files/new-general-product-safety-regulation-factsheet_en] continuing to use recalled products.

In case of a safety recall or warning, economic operators and online marketplaces will now be required to inform all affected consumers they can identify and widely disseminate the information. Recall notices should avoid expressions that can decrease consumers’ perception of risk (e.g. “voluntary”, “precautionary”, “in rare/specific situations”).

Consumers will be clearly informed of their right to repair, a replacement or an adequate refund (at least equal to the initial price). They will also have a right to file complaints or launch collective actions[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20201120IPR92116/eu-consumers-will-soon-be-able-to-defend-their-rights-collectively]. The rapid alert system for dangerous products (“Safety Gate[https://ec.europa.eu/safety-gate-alerts/]” portal) will be modernised to allow unsafe products to be detected more effectively and will be more accessible for persons with disabilities.

Quote

The rapporteur Dita Charanzová (Renew, CZ) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/124708/DITA_CHARANZOVA/home]said: “Today’s agreement is a big victory for European consumers – it gives them a reason to feel safe buying any product within the EU. Products will be safer in general, but more importantly dangerous products will be removed more quickly, including from online marketplaces. And you will no longer learn about recalls by chance, but instead you will be informed directly whenever possible and given options to repair, replace, or get your money back. These are practical benefits for our citizens”.

Next steps

Parliament (in March 2023) and Council need to endorse the agreement, before its publication in the EU Official Journal and entry into force. The GPSR would apply 18 months after its entry into force.

Background

In June 2021[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_3242], the Commission presented its proposal to update the 2001 General Product Safety Directive[https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/product-safety-and-requirements/product-safety/consumer-product-safety_en] to address challenges linked to new technologies and online sales.

The new rules are projected to save EU consumers around 1 billion euro in the first year and approximately 5.5 billion over the next decade. By reducing the number of unsafe products on the market, the new measures should reduce the harm caused to EU consumers due to preventable, product-related accidents (estimated today at 11.5 billion euro per year) and cost of healthcare (estimated at 6.7 billion euro per year).

Further information

* Procedure file[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?reference=2021/0170(COD)&l=en]

* Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/imco/home.html]

* Dita Charanzová (Renew, CZ)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/124708]

* European Parliament Research Service General product safety regulation, Briefing, EU Legislation in Progress, (30.08.2022)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2021)698028]

* European Parliament Research Service, Revision of the General Product Safety Directive, Briefing, Implementation Appraisal, June 2021[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2021)694202]

Die Grünen/EFA zur Einigung im Trilog auf neue Regeln zur Produktsicherheit

Brüssel, 29. November 2022

Gerade haben das Europäische Parlament und der Rat im Trilog eine Einigung über die Verordnung über die allgemeine Produktsicherheit erzielt, die die Hersteller verpflichtet, nur sichere Produkte auf den Markt zu bringen. Die neuen Vorschriften gelten für Non-Food-Produkte und befassen sich mit Risiken im Zusammenhang mit neuen Technologieprodukten, wie zum Beispiel Cybersicherheitsrisiken, sowie mit dem Online-Shopping durch die Einführung von Produktsicherheitsvorschriften für Online-Marktplätze. Zukünftig sollen die neuen Regeln auch für sogenannte nicht-harmonisierte Produkte wie Möbel, Kinderbetreuungsartikel oder Textilien gelten, die bislang nicht unter die Produktsicherheitsregeln fallen.

Die Grüne Europaabgeordnete Anna Cavazzini, Vorsitzende des Ausschusses für Binnenmarkt und Verbraucherschutz, kommentiert:

“Die heutige Einigung bedeutet die überfällige Anpassung unserer hohen Standards an die Sicherheit von Produkten im Binnenmarkt an die wachsenden Anforderungen der Digitalisierung und des Online-Shoppings. Die neuen Vorschriften verbessern die Sicherheit von Produkten, die Vorgaben zur Transparenz und Information und die Rechte von Verbraucherinnen und Verbrauchern und gelten erfreulicherweise nun auch für Produkte wie Möbel oder Textilien, die vorher nicht unter die gemeinsamen Regeln zur Produktsicherheit gefallen sind.

Wir Grüne konnten während der Trilog-Verhandlungen erfolgreich einige unserer Hauptpunkte durchsetzen. Es ist uns gelungen, das Vorsorgeprinzip zu verankern und auch mit konkreten Maßnahmen zu unterfüttern. Auch wenn wir uns hier mehr gewünscht hätten – auf diese Weise können sich Verbraucherinnen und Verbraucher sicherer sein, dass am Ende jemand für die Sicherheit ihrer Produkte verantwortlich ist, und sie nicht wie bislang am Ende mit leeren Händen dastehen.

Darüber hinaus konnten wir für uns entscheidende Punkte aus dem Parlamentsmandat beibehalten. Im Sinne der Verbraucherinnen und Verbraucher wird es beim Kauf auf Online-Marktplätzen mehr Sicherheitsvorkehrungen geben. Und mit einem erweiterten Sicherheitsbegriff sorgen wir dafür, dass Produkte für alle sicher sein müssen, unabhängig von ihrem Geschlecht. Schließlich ermöglicht ein kollektiver Rechtsschutz Sammelklagen bei Nichteinhaltung dieser Verordnung.

Leider hat sich das Europaparlament bei den Sanktionen nicht durchsetzen können: Sie werden in Bezug auf die Höhe und die Kriterien nicht harmonisiert, was für Online Shopping im Binnenmarkt zentral gewesen wäre. Außerdem sind die Verpflichtungen für Nicht-EU-Unternehmen nicht so streng, wie wir es wollten.

Immer mehr Verbraucherinnen und Verbraucher kaufen online Produkte, die aus Drittländern direkt zu ihnen nach Hause geliefert werden. Dadurch landen im Binnenmarkt Produkte, die nicht unseren Sicherheitsstandards entsprechen. Um unser hohes Verbraucherschutzniveau aufrechtzuerhalten, ist die heutige Einigung überfällig, um die Produktsicherheitsvorschriften an die Anforderungen der Digitalisierung und des Online-Shoppings anzupassen. Die Verbraucherinnen und Verbraucher müssen die Gewissheit haben, dass von den Produkten, die sie kaufen, keine Gefahren ausgehen, und zwar mit dem gleichen Verbraucherschutzniveau online und offline.”

Im Folgenden finden Sie die wichtigsten Punkte der Vereinbarung:

Weniger unsichere Produkte, die über Online-Marktplätze in die EU gelangen

Produkte, die aus Drittländern stammen und über Online-Marktplätze wie Amazon, Ebay oder Alibaba auf den EU-Markt gelangen, machen einen großen Teil der unsicheren Produkte in der EU aus. Mit dieser Verordnung wird den großen Händlern aus Drittstaaten das Handwerk gelegt, indem sie vorschreibt, dass für alle nicht harmonisierten Produkte eine verantwortliche Person in der Union vorhanden sein muss. Sie wird das Auftauchen und Wiederauftauchen unsicherer Produkte im Internet durch die Einführung klarer Verpflichtungen für Online-Marktplätze minimieren. Die Funktionalitäten des Safety Gate Portals (ehemals Rapex) werden verbessert, um nicht nur den Mitgliedstaaten, sondern auch den Online-Marktplätzen und Unternehmen zu garantieren, dass sie mehr Informationen über gefährliche Produkte mit den Verbrauchern und den Marktüberwachungsbehörden teilen können. Das Safety Gate listet gemeldete unsichere Produkte im Binnenmarkt.

Verbraucher*innen sollen nicht mit leeren Händen dastehen

Die in Artikel 15 festgelegten Verpflichtungen ergänzen die Bestimmungen der Marktüberwachungsverordnung und stellen sicher, dass es für die Produkte eine verantwortliche Person in der Union gibt, so dass die Möglichkeit, dass die Verbraucher*innen bei Produktsicherheitsproblemen mit leeren Händen dastehen, begrenzt wird.

Die verantwortliche Person arbeitet auch mit den Marktüberwachungsbehörden zusammen und informiert sie, wenn Produkte ein Risiko darstellen, und stellt auf begründeten Antrag hin sicher, dass unverzüglich die erforderlichen Korrekturmaßnahmen ergriffen werden, um Verstöße zu beheben (z. B. Rückrufe gefährlicher Produkte).

Wir hätten uns jedoch gewünscht, dass dieser Artikel weitaus ehrgeiziger wäre. Die Person wird verpflichtet, zu prüfen, ob alle Produkte (und nicht nur eine begrenzte Liste von Produkten wie im EP-Mandat) mit den technischen Unterlagen übereinstimmen, sondern nur auf der Grundlage der möglichen Risiken. Dieses Ergebnis schränkt den Schutz der EU-Verbraucher*innen ein und erhält die Ungleichheiten zwischen EU- und Nicht-EU-Unternehmen aufrecht, da Unternehmen aus Drittländern weitaus weniger Verpflichtungen unterliegen als EU-Unternehmen.

Darüber hinaus können wir uns nicht damit zufrieden geben, dass die technischen Unterlagen nicht das vollständige Ergebnis der vom Hersteller durchgeführten Risikobewertung enthalten werden, was es den MSA ermöglichen würde, die Einhaltung der Vorschriften durch die verantwortliche Person und die anderen Wirtschaftsakteure besser zu überprüfen.

Mehr Schutzmaßnahmen für Online-Marktplätze

Die neue Produktsicherheitsverordnung wird neue Produktsicherheitsverpflichtungen für Online-Marktplätze in Übereinstimmung mit dem Gesetz über digitale Dienstleistungen (DSA) einführen. Online-Marktplätze müssen Anfragen zur Entfernung von unsicheren Produkten nachkommen: Maximal 2 Tage bei behördlichen Anordnungen und maximal 3 Tage im Falle der Benachrichtigung durch Dritte.

Weitere Verpflichtungen werden sein: Verhinderung des erneuten Auftauchens gefährlicher Produkte; Unterrichtung des betreffenden Wirtschaftsteilnehmers über die Entscheidung, den illegalen Inhalt zu entfernen oder den Zugang zu ihm zu sperren; Entwicklung einer Schnittstelle, um einen internen Mechanismus für die Behandlung von Fragen der Produktsicherheit einzurichten; Unterrichtung der Verbraucher*innen über die neu eingerichtete “einheitliche Kontaktstelle” über Unfälle oder Sicherheitsprobleme sowie über Rückrufe und Unterrichtung der Marktüberwachungsbehörden; Zusammenarbeit mit den Behörden, den Wirtschaftsteilnehmern und den Strafverfolgungsbehörden (auch bei Produktrückrufen), z.B. durch Gewährung des Zugangs zu ihren Schnittstellen, damit die MSA mit ihren Instrumenten Kontrollen durchführen und gefährliche Produkte identifizieren können; unverzügliche Meldung aller Unfälle, von denen sie tatsächlich Kenntnis haben, über das neu eingerichtete Safety Business Gateway; angemessene Anstrengungen, um stichprobenartig zu prüfen, ob die angebotenen Produkte als gefährliche Produkte identifiziert wurden, insbesondere im Safety Gate Portal, für die wir Grüne/EFA uns besonders eingesetzt haben.

Ein breiteres Sicherheitskonzept, das die Geschlechter einbezieht

Um ein Produkt als sicher einzustufen und damit auf den Markt bringen zu können, müssen die Hersteller die Auswirkungen der geschlechtsspezifischen Unterschiede auf die Gesundheit und Sicherheit der Geschlechter bewerten, was eine unserer Grünen Prioritäten für die Verhandlungen war. Weitere wichtige Aspekte für die Bewertung der Produktsicherheit, die wir berücksichtigen konnten, sind die Wechselwirkung mit anderen Produkten, die Aufmachung des Produkts, die Kennzeichnung, einschließlich der Kennzeichnung hinsichtlich der Eignung für Kinder, etwaige Warnhinweise und Anleitungen für die sichere Verwendung und Entsorgung, die Kategorien von Verbraucher*innen, die das Produkt verwenden, insbesondere durch die Bewertung des Risikos für schutzbedürftige Verbraucher*innen wie Kinder, ältere Menschen und Menschen mit Behinderungen, die angemessenen Cybersicherheitsmerkmale, die erforderlich sind, um das Produkt gegen äußere Einflüsse zu schützen, einschließlich des möglichen Verlusts der Verbindung untereinander, sowie die sich entwickelnden, lernenden und vorausschauenden Funktionen eines Produkts.

Volle Beachtung des Vorsorgeprinzips

Einer der wichtigsten Erfolge des Trilogs besteht darin, dass dieser Meilenstein nach erschöpfenden Verhandlungen im Geltungsbereich des Berichts beibehalten wurde. Das Prinzip war Teil des Kommissionsvorschlags, aber die Mitte-Rechts-Mehrheit wollte es streichen. In den Verhandlungen wurde folgender Kompromiss erzielt: eine begrenzte Anwendung auf die Marktüberwachung, die ohnehin den Kern des Vorschlags darstellt. In der Trilog-Phase haben wir bekräftigt, dass der horizontale Charakter des Prinzips ein entscheidendes Element ist, das es zu verteidigen gilt, und es ist uns mit Unterstützung der größeren Mitgliedstaaten gelungen, es wieder in den horizontalen Teil des Berichts aufzunehmen. Das bedeutet, dass die Mitgliedstaaten, die Marktüberwachungsbehörden und alle Akteure in der Lieferkette diesen Grundsatz in Bezug auf die Produktsicherheit gebührend berücksichtigen müssen.

Die neuen Regeln werden als Sicherheitsnetz funktionieren

Ein sehr positiver Punkt ist, dass die neue Produktsicherheitsverordnung als Sicherheitsnetz fungieren wird, indem sie die Marktüberwachungsvorschriften für Produkte, die nicht in den Geltungsbereich der EU-Harmonisierungsrechtsvorschriften fallen (die sogenannten nicht harmonisierten Produkte, wie Möbel, Kinderbetreuungsartikel und Textilien), an die Vorschriften anpasst, die für Produkte gelten, die in den Geltungsbereich der EU-Harmonisierungsrechtsvorschriften fallen (die sogenannten harmonisierten Produkte, wie elektronische Geräte und Medizinprodukte) und die in der Verordnung (EU) 2019/1020 über die Marktüberwachung und die Konformität von Produkten festgelegt sind. Dies bedeutet, dass für alle Produkte endlich dieselben Marktüberwachungsvorschriften gelten, einschließlich größerer Befugnisse für die Marktüberwachungsbehörden (MSA). Die nationalen Behörden können auch Online-Testkäufe durchführen (obwohl dies eine Möglichkeit und keine Verpflichtung ist, wie wir es wollten) und die Rückverfolgbarkeit von Produkten in der Lieferkette verbessern, indem sie Kontaktdaten von Herstellern und Importeuren verlangen.

Kollektiver Rechtsschutz ist gegeben

Ein weiterer großer Erfolg in letzter Minute ist die Aufnahme der neuen Produktsicherheitsverordnung in den Anhang der Richtlinie 2020/1828/EG über Verbandsklagen zum Schutz der Kollektivinteressen der Verbraucher*innen. Dies bedeutet, dass Verbraucher*innen bei Nichteinhaltung dieser Verordnung Sammelklagen gegen Wirtschaftsakteure und Online-Marktplätze einreichen können. Der kollektive Rechtsschutz war ein großer Erfolg während der Verhandlungen im Binnenmarktausschuss, und wir Grüne/EFA haben es geschafft, ihn in die Vereinbarung aufzunehmen.

Bestimmungen zur Barrierefreiheit

Es ist uns gelungen, mehrere Bestimmungen zur Barrierefreiheit in den Text aufzunehmen. Die direkte Information der Verbraucher*innen über Sicherheitsfragen sollte ebenso zugänglich sein wie der Zugang zu Informationen über die Produktidentifizierung, die Art des Risikos und die getroffenen Maßnahmen. Darüber hinaus konnten wir in der Vereinbarung sicherstellen, dass Hersteller und Importeure öffentlich zugängliche Kommunikationskanäle zur Verfügung stellen müssen. Darüber hinaus sollten die Wirtschaftsakteure den Verbraucher*innen im Laufe der Zeit Informationen in zugänglicher Form zur Verfügung stellen. Die Websites der Wirtschaftsakteure sowie die Datenbank und die Website des Safety Gate sollten zugänglich sein. Darüber hinaus wurde mit der Vereinbarung das Recht auf Zugang zum Portal Safety Gate für die breite Öffentlichkeit, einschließlich Menschen mit Behinderungen, verbessert. Im Hinblick auf Rückrufe wurde auch darauf geachtet, dass ein Muster für eine Rückrufmitteilung in zugänglichem Format erstellt wird.

Verbesserte Schutzmaßnahmen für Verbraucher*innen

Wir haben die Anforderungen an die Rückverfolgbarkeit von Produkten, die eine ernste Gefahr für die Gesundheit und Sicherheit von Menschen darstellen können, verbessert; die Durchsetzung und Koordinierung durch die Mitgliedstaaten wurde verbessert, und die Kommission hat die Möglichkeit, Maßnahmen aus dringenden Gründen zu ergreifen; die Rückrufverfahren wurden verbessert, und es gibt neue Rechte für Rechtsmittel der Verbraucher.

Sanktionen

Sanktionen sind ein traditionelles No-Go für den Rat, und dieses Dossier hat nicht mit dieser Tradition gebrochen. Der einzige negative Punkt der Verordnung. Die Sanktionen werden nicht harmonisiert.

Übergangsfrist und Überprüfungsklausel

Leider hat sich der Rat auch hier durchgesetzt, den Zeitpunkt der Anwendung auf 18 Monate nach Inkrafttreten zu verlängern. Wir Grüne hatten gefordert, die 6 Monate des Kommissionsvorschlags beizubehalten, aber das Mandat des Europaparlaments hat sich auf 12 Monate geeinigt und der Rat, der 24 Monate vorgeschlagen hatte, hat es geschafft, sie auf 18 Monate zu verlängern.

Die Überprüfungsklausel wird 5 Jahre nach dem Inkrafttreten wirksam. Der Ehrgeiz des Parlamentsmandats wurde im Trilog beibehalten: Die Kommission ist nun verpflichtet, eine spezifische Bewertung vorzunehmen, insbesondere in Bezug auf die Anwendung der Bestimmungen über die Rückverfolgbarkeit von Produkten, die Online-Marktplätze, das Safety Gate und die verantwortliche Person.

Quelle: Die Grünen/EFA

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-lawmakers-reach-deal-on-better-protecting-online-shoppers-and-vulnerable-consumers/395409/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/subscribe/]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Important note

Please do not hesitate to reach out if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues. See also our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

Last, but not least, here are some more useful deep links:

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Insight EU Agenda Weekly: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Insight EU Premium: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium]

* Specialised Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020221130eibu00005


CE Noticias Financieras English
Ukraine - Russia war, live | Putin tries to make progress in the Donetsk region
5521 字
2022 年 12 月 4 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Update Narration 14:07 Estonia announces record purchase of HIMARS multiple rocket systems for €190 million The Estonian government on Saturday announced the purchase of U.S. HIMARS multiple rocket launcher systems worth more than €190 million, the Ministry of Defense Investment Center said in a statement. The corresponding agreement was signed on Friday between the center's director general, Magnus-Valdemar Saar, and the U.S. Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), in what is the largest arms deal in its history to date. "Under the contract, Estonia will also purchase ammunition and communications equipment, including different types of missiles, ranging in range from 70 to 300 kilometers," it has made known in the statement. Estonia expects to receive first shipments of HIMARS in 2024.

13:55 Russia puts the number of troops killed during the last hours at 200 The Russian Defense Ministry has announced that more than 200 Ukrainian forces have been killed during a succession of offensives during the last hours by Russian forces in eastern Ukraine. At least 50 Ukrainian servicemen were killed in an operation in the Donetsk city of Artemovsk, which also resulted in the destruction of six Ukrainian Armed Forces armored fighting vehicles. Another 40 Ukrainian servicemen were killed in a Russian counterattack in the locality of Shevchenko, also in Donetsk, explained the Russian military spokesman, General Igor Konashenkov, in a press conference reported by Interfax. 13:43 Germany expects an increase in Ukrainian refugees in the coming weeks The German government anticipates a further spike in Ukrainian refugees in the coming weeks as frosts spread across areas under Kyiv's control in the west of the country. The German ambassador to the UK, Miguel Berger, has charged that Russian attacks on Ukraine's energy supply will eventually force a new exodus of people due to freezing temperatures, telling Sky News. "We expect new arrivals starting in the next few weeks," the diplomat has confirmed. 13:31 Rafael Grossi to meet again with Putin to negotiate over Zaporiyia The director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Argentinean Rafael Grossi, will meet again with Russian President Vladimir Putin to try to create a safety zone at the Zaporiyia power plant to avoid a nuclear catastrophe during the war with Ukraine. "I am impatient for this. I don't know when exactly it will be, but we are discussing it," Grossi said during his speech at the Rome MED Conference, an event held in the Italian capital that has brought together heads of state and representatives from more than 50 countries. The OIE director, who already met with Putin last October, has been negotiating for some time with Russia and Ukraine for the establishment of a bombing-free zone in the Zaporiyia province, where the continent's largest nuclear power plant is located. 13:20 NATO discusses air defense after the missile that fell in Poland, reports La Vanguardia's correspondent in Berlin, Maria-Paz Lopez. The worldwide alarm over the missile strike in Poland in mid-November, which killed two people and for the first time brought the direct war impact of Russia's invasion of Ukraine to allied territory, has generated further debate in NATO over the air protection of its eastern flank. Eastern countries have long called for reinforcement of the borderline, and while the Atlantic Alliance summit in Madrid in June agreed to shore up the sector with a greater troop presence, unease persists in nations that feel Russian military encouragement close at hand. This and other global security issues were discussed this week at the Alliance's foreign ministers' meeting in Bucharest. 13:11 Sotheby's New York house auctions 400-year-old emerald to support Ukraine Sotheby's New York house will auction the 'Nuestra Señora de Atocha' emerald, found in the sinking of the Spanish galleon of the same name in 1622. The proceeds from the December 7 drawing will go to humanitarian relief efforts in Ukraine. The gemstone ended up being part of the engagement ring given by the late poultry magnate Frank Perdue to his wife, Mitzi, who wore it on her finger until the billionaire's death in 2005. 13:00 Bakhmut targeted by Russian army According to British military intelligence (DI), Russian troops are concentrating their efforts on capturing Bakhmut, an important communication junction north of Donetsk, would allow them to advance towards Kramatorsk and Slovianks, the main Ukrainian Army strongholds in the Donetsk region. "However, the campaign has been disproportionately costly in relation to the potential gains," the DI noted today in a tweet, in which it pointed to the possibility that the capture of Bajmut is for Russia a "political, symbolic objective." In any case, in the opinion of British analysts, the logistical problems and the shortage of supplies are a brake on the offensive plans of the Russian Army. 12:49 Ukraine has eliminated more than 91,000 invaders since the beginning of the war The Armed Forces of Ukraine have eliminated about 91,150 Russian soldiers from the beginning of the war to this Sunday, December 4. This is stated by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine via Facebook, Ukrinform reports. The Armed Forces of Ukraine have also destroyed 2,922 tanks, 5,892 armored fighting vehicles, 1,908 artillery systems, 395 multiple rocket launchers, 210 air defense units, 281 aircraft, 263 helicopters, 1,573 tactical and operational drones, 531 cruise missiles, 16 ships/launches, 4,479 motor vehicles/tankers, 163 units of special equipment. 12:40 OPEC considers Sunday whether to readjust crude supply level in 2023 The OPEC oil cartel, led by Saudi Arabia and allied producing countries including Russia, will decide how much oil to supply to the global economy amid weakening demand in China and uncertainty over the impact of new Western sanctions against Russia that could see significant amounts of oil withdrawn from the market. The 23-nation OPEC+ alliance meets on Sunday, a day before the start of two measures affecting Moscow's oil profits in response to its war in Ukraine. These are a European Union boycott of most Russian oil and a $60 per barrel price cap on Russian exports imposed by the EU and Group of Seven democracies. 12:29 Russia to stop supplying crude to Europe this year Russia will stop supplying oil to Europe later this year after the European Union decided on Friday to cap the price of Russian barrel as a sanction because of the war in Ukraine. European Union countries agreed on Friday to cap the price of Russian oil at $60 per barrel as part of sanctions imposed on Moscow for its aggression against Ukraine. Reports Blanca Gispert, journalist for La Vanguardia. 12:17 US predicts Ukrainian forces could have better prospects in coming months US intelligence chief Avril Haines has said that fighting in Russia's war in Ukraine is proceeding at a "reduced pace" and predicts that Ukrainian forces could have better prospects in coming months. Haines has referred to earlier accusations by some that Russian President Vladimir Putin's advisers may be shielding him from bad news, for Russia, about developments in the war, and said he is "becoming more informed about the challenges facing the military in Russia." "Honestly, we are already seeing a kind of reduced tempo of the conflict" and his team expects both sides to seek to refit, resupply and reconstitute for a possible Ukrainian counteroffensive in the spring, he has said. 12:04 Macron recommends offering Russia "security guarantees" if it decides to negotiate peace in Ukraine French President Emmanuel Macron has outlined a general medium-term security outlook on the Ukraine conflict by recommending, after pledging to continue sending aid to the Kiev government, that Russia be given some kind of "security guarantee" if it decides to sit down to negotiate an end to the conflict. "In the coming weeks, we will have to help Ukraine to resist, the Ukrainians to hold on, to continue to help militarily and to intervene very precisely to protect the power plants," Macron explained in an interview broadcast Saturday on TF1. However, the president also recommended continuing to prepare "dialogue" for "the day when everyone returns to the (negotiating) table" 11:55 Moldova says it has gas reserves for two months Moldova has gas reserves for two winter months in case Russian gas company Gazprom cuts supplies, Moldovan Prime Minister Natalia Gavrilita said Sunday. "We have reserves of 230 million cubic meters (of gas), which will allow us to spend two winter months even in case tomorrow supplies are completely suspended," the head of the government said in statements to the Moldovan public radio. She added that Moldova this year receives from Gazprom less than half of the fuel supplied in 2021. The Russian gas consortium has declared that it reserves the right to reduce or completely suspend gas supplies to Moldova in case of non-payments. 11:46 Meloni approves Italy to continue sending arms to Ukraine Italy does not change its program of sending arms to Ukraine. Giorgia Meloni's government has approved on Thursday to extend until the end of 2023 the authorization to send "military means, materials and equipment to the Ukrainian government authorities", a decision that will now have to be ratified by the Parliament in the next two months. Anna Buj, correspondent of La Vanguardia in Rome, reports. 11:37 Zelenski conveys his hope that a special court will try Russia for its invasion of Ukraine Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski has conveyed his hope that a special court will be formed to try crimes committed by Russia during its invasion of Ukraine. Having spoken to politicians at different levels in cities across Europe, Ukraine is strengthening its position by amassing support from its partners for a court to be installed to deliver justice, as detailed by the Ukrainian leader in his daily message to the country's population. "This week we have worked with the European capitals at different levels London, Paris, Berlin, Warsaw and other cities. I am sure that there will be a court, that there will be justice," Zelesnki reaffirmed. 11:29 The special court claimed by Ukraine, at the expense of international assistance The Ukrainian government has redoubled in recent days its calls for a special court whose main mission would be to judge the crimes committed with Russia, an ambitious task for which Kiev is seeking the assistance of its main international allies, in the absence of defining where and how the hypothetical trials could be carried out. Article 125 of the Ukrainian Constitution explicitly states that "the establishment of extraordinary and special courts is not allowed", a legacy of the post-Soviet context in which an à la carte Justice as in the USSR was feared. 11:19 London believes that Putin could use a negotiation to rearm his army The British Foreign Secretary, James Cleverly, warns in an interview published by the newspaper "The Telegraph" that the Russian President, Vladimir Putin, could take advantage of an eventual negotiation on peace in Ukraine to rearm his army. There is a risk that "a cease-fire could simply be used by Putin to train more troops, produce more ammunition, rebuild and rearm his damaged forces," Ceverly said in an interview that took place this week during the NATO ministerial summit in Bucharest. U.S. President Joe Biden has left the door open to talks with his Russian counterpart, but only if Putin "is prepared to look for ways to end the war," he said after meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday. 11:10 G7 also agrees to a €60 cap on a barrel of Russian crude as EU The G7 club of industrialized nations and Australia agreed to a €60 cap on a barrel of Russian seaborne crude, in line with the decision of European Union (EU) countries. With this decision, the United States, Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom, Italy, France and Germany - which holds the rotating presidency - aim to prevent Russia "from benefiting from its war of aggression against Ukraine," they announced in a statement. In addition, the measure aims to "support stability in global energy markets and minimize the economic effects of Russia's war of aggression, especially for low- and middle-income countries." 11:02 VIDEO REPORT | Who wins in the Ukraine war business The war in Europe brings deaths and crises, uncertainty and instability, but it is also a boom for various countries, sectors, companies. Some, in fact, have almost doubled in value since February 24, since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Others are growing steadily. And these - surprise? - are in the West and East. 10:53 Ciudadanos asks the Government to reinforce the logistic and military support to Ukraine The Parliamentary Group Ciudadanos has registered in the Congress of Deputies a non-legislative proposal (PNL) in which it urges the Government to reinforce the logistic and military support to Ukraine in the war against Russia for its debate in Plenary. Specifically, it asks to redouble its efforts in terms of sending military weapons to Ukraine, mainly in the field of anti-aircraft defenses, tanks and production lines, and financial assistance to promote the reconstruction of the country. Among his stated reasons, he said that Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dimitro Kuleba reminded NATO partners that what Ukrainian troops need is more armaments, alluding to the fact that the shipment of armaments has been "the great turning point" that allowed Ukrainians to defend their sovereignty and territorial integrity against the invader. "Unfortunately, not all political forces have shown the same commitment to freedom and international legality in Ukraine or to the security of our country," added Ciudadanos. 10:44 Ukraine condemns as "terrorism and intimidation" threats received in recent days by embassies Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dimitro Kuleba on Saturday estimated at least 18 cases of threats against diplomatic missions and institutions of twelve countries in recent days, which he described as acts of "terrorism and intimidation" that will not be able to "break" the will of their ambassadors. "As of today, there are 18 cases of threats in 12 countries: an attempted terrorist attack in Spain, packages with threats in the form of eyes gouged out of animals in Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland, Croatia, Italy, Austria, the Czech Republic, the Vatican, France, as well as a suspicious letter to the United States," he has made known in a message posted on his Telegram account. 10:35 Russia evacuates vulnerable population of Nova Kakhovka on the east bank of the Dnieper River Russian authorities in the occupied town of Nova Kakhovka in eastern Ukraine have announced the beginning, as of yesterday, Saturday, of the process of evacuation of the vulnerable population in this town that has sheltered hundreds of civilians and servicemen who have crossed the Dnieper River after the Ukrainian liberation of Kherson on the other bank. The head of the Russian military-civilian administration of the town, Pavel Filipchuk, had already ordered in mid-November the start of the evacuation procedure in the direction of the Russian town of Tuapsé in the Krasnodar region, 500 kilometers west of Kherson and past the Crimean peninsula. 10:27 Lukashenko assures that the war will continue because the West considers "hostile" options Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko said Saturday that the West is still considering "options for continuing hostilities in Ukraine," which will mean that the Russian army's special military operation will continue. "They are looking for, in our opinion, how to continue the war. Well, then the special operation will not stop," the president has maintained at a meeting with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, TASS agency reports. 10:19 Oleksandra Romantsova: "If Putin wins as an autocrat, his strategy will be more popular " World fame has come to the Ukrainian organization Center for Civil Liberties (CCL) since it was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize 2022 together with the Russian NGO Memorial and the imprisoned Belarusian activist Ales Bialiatski in October. Its executive director, Oleksandra Romantsova, spoke to La Vanguardia during a forum on her country organized by the international platform CivilM+ this week in Berlin. Economist Romantsova (Mikolaiv, 1985) left her job in banking in 2014 to work full-time at CCL, which documents Russian war crimes in Ukraine. Maria-Paz Lopez, La Vanguardia correspondent in Berlin, reports. 10:11 Russia to cut crude oil supplies to Europe later this year, says ambassador Russia will stop supplying oil to Europe later this year after the European Union (EU) decided to cap the price of a Russian barrel, Russian ambassador to international organizations in Vienna Mikhaíl Ulyanov said. "Starting from this year #Europe will live without Russian oil. #Moscow has already made it clear that it will NOT supply #oil to the countries that support the price cap against the market," Ulyanov wrote on his Twitter account and other social networks. "Very soon the EU will blame Russia for using oil as a weapon," the Kremlin representative predicted in his terse statement. 10:03 G7 also agrees $60 cap on Russian crude oil barrel like EU The G7 club of industrialized nations and Australia agreed on a $60 cap on a barrel of Russian crude oil transported by sea, in line with the decision of the European Union (EU) countries. With this step, the United States, Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom, Italy, France and Germany - which holds the rotating presidency - aim to prevent Russia "from benefiting from its war of aggression against Ukraine," they announced in a statement. In addition, the measure, which will come into force next December 5 or "shortly thereafter", aims to "support stability in global energy markets and minimize the economic effects of Russia's war of aggression, especially for low- and middle-income countries". 09:54 Zavala: The "apocalypse clock" on the edge due to nuclear risk in Ukraine The "apocalypse clock", a kind of scientific metaphor used to measure how close the world is to the final catastrophe, could be very close to the deadline if the risk of an eventual nuclear drift of the war in Ukraine persists and is not reduced. This is the thesis of writer and journalist José María Zavala in his latest book "El reloj del apocalipsis. How to Survive the End Times" (HarperCollins), in which he wonders if there are already signs that this evil countdown has begun and how human beings could try to counteract such dark omens. In an interview with EFE, Zavala stresses that "Albert Einstein and other Nobel Prize winners devised the so-called 'Apocalypse clock' in 1947, whose lethal hour was metaphorically set at midnight. 09:46 Ukraine reckons $60 cap on Russian oil still too high Ukrainian Presidency advisor Andrei Yermak has deemed the $60 (57 euros) cap on Russian oil agreed on Friday by the EU-27 still too high and insisted on cutting the price by half. "It should be lowered to $30 to destroy the enemy's economy faster," Yermak let it be known on his Twitter account. This price was the one recommended by Poland and the Baltic countries. "We always achieve our goal and Russia's economy will be destroyed. Russia will pay and will be responsible for all crimes," Yermak has assured. 09:38 Moldova fears another blackout Moldova fears more power outages in the coming days, like the ones it has suffered twice, in October and November, as a result of Russian shelling of Ukrainian energy infrastructure. When this happens, the high-voltage line coming from Romania is disconnected for safety. This line starts in Isaccea and runs through southern Ukraine to Cuciurgan, in the breakaway republic of Transnistria - the post-Soviet conflict frozen since 1992 - to enter Moldovan territory. Reports Felix Flores, journalist for La Vanguardia. 09:30 Russia denounces that the cap on its oil is an "illegitimate" reshaping of the free market The Russian government has accused the West of reshaping at its own risk and in a "dangerous and illegitimate" way the principles of the free market by setting this Friday a cap of 60 dollars (about 57 euros) on oil from Russia. Responding to the U.S. applause for the agreement reached Friday by the EU, the Russian Embassy in Washington "takes note of the arrogant American statements." "Washington strategists, hiding behind lofty slogans of ensuring the energy security of developing countries, maintain a wall of silence on the fact that the current imbalances on the energy markets stem from their ill-conceived actions: the introduction of sanctions against Russia and bans on energy imports from our country," it adds in a note carried by the TASS news agency. 09:21 Estonia announces record purchase of HIMARS multiple rocket systems for €190 million The Estonian government on Saturday announced the purchase of US HIMARS multiple rocket launcher systems worth more than €190 million, the Defense Ministry's Investment Center said in a statement. The corresponding agreement was signed on Friday between the center's director general, Magnus-Valdemar Saar, and the U.S. Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), in what is the largest arms deal in its history to date. "Under the contract, Estonia will also purchase ammunition and communications equipment, including different types of missiles, ranging in range from 70 to 300 kilometers," it has made known in the statement. Estonia expects to receive first shipments of HIMARS in 2024. 09:12 London believes that Putin could use a negotiation to rearm his army British Foreign Secretary James Cleverly warns in an interview published in "The Telegraph" newspaper that Russian President Vladimir Putin could take advantage of a possible peace negotiation in Ukraine to rearm his army. There is a risk that "a cease-fire could simply be used by Putin to train more troops, produce more ammunition, rebuild and rearm his damaged forces", Ceverly pointed out in an interview that took place this week during the NATO ministerial summit in Bucharest. U.S. President Joe Biden has left the door open to talks with his Russian counterpart, but only if Putin "is prepared to look for ways to end the war," he said after meeting French President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday. 09:03 Macron to talk again with Putin on Ukrainian nuclear power plants Emmanuel Macron intends to talk directly with Vladimir Putin again about security at Ukrainian nuclear power plants to avoid escalation and believes pressure must be put on Russia to return to the negotiating table. In an interview to the French TV channel TF1 broadcast on Saturday, Macron did not say when this next conversation with the Russian president will take place, but he did specify that it will be after addressing the issue of safety at Ukrainian atomic power plants with the director of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Rafael Grossi. 08:55 Russia will stop supplying crude oil to Europe this year Russia will stop supplying oil to Europe later this year, after the European Union decided on Friday to cap the price of the Russian barrel as a sanction because of the war in Ukraine. Reports Blanca Gispert, journalist for La Vanguardia. 08:47 Zelenski considers the cap on the price of Russian oil insufficient Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski has criticized as insufficient the cap on the price of Russian oil agreed by its Western allies. "It cannot be considered an important decision to set such a limit for Russian prices because it is quite comfortable for the budget of a terrorist state," Zelenski has said. Zelenski has pointed out that Russia has already caused "colossal losses" to countries around the world by deliberately destabilizing energy markets. "The world does not dare to really disarm it in terms of energy. It is a weak position," he lamented. 08:38 Kremlin assures Putin will visit separatist areas in eastern Ukraine "in due course" The Russian Presidency has said that Russian leader Vladimir Putin plans to visit separatist Ukrainian regions controlled by Russian military forces "soon". "Putin will soon visit the Donbas," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov stressed, as reported by the Russian news agency TASS "It will certainly happen in due time because it is part of the Russian Federation," Zelenski stressed. Last October 5 Putin signed the decree on the accession of four Ukrainian regions - Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporiyia and Kherson. The four areas were annexed following referendums considered illegal by Ukraine, the United States and its allies. On the other hand, Peskov has stressed that the recruitment process in Russia "has been completed". 08:30 First ship with Ukrainian grain arrives in Ethiopia under the Grain From Ukraine program The first ship with Ukrainian grain arrived in Ethiopia on Saturday as part of the Grain From Ukraine program, Head of the Presidential Administration Andrii Yermak said on his Telegram channel. In total, Kyiv has sent 25,00 tons of humanitarian wheat to the African country through the scheme promoted by President Volodimir Zelensky. "Together with its partners, Ukraine, as a guarantor of food security, does everything possible to help people in need. Our partners buy Ukrainian grain to fight hunger in the world," Yermark has stated in the released text. 08:22 Lukashenko assures that the war will continue because the West considers options to "continue hostilities" Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has stated that the West is still considering "options to continue hostilities in Ukraine," which will mean that the special military operation of the Russian army will continue. "They are looking for, in our opinion, how to continue the war. Well, then the special operation will not stop," the president said at a meeting with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, according to TASS news agency. In that sense, he has assured that the opponents of Russia "are in no hurry to negotiate". "If they want to fight to the end, whether it is a Ukrainian, a Pole or even mercenaries, well, it is their business, it is their right," he maintained while pointing out that he does not believe that "they are ready for full-fledged negotiations." 08:13 Charles Michel: "The EU cannot be the collateral victim of the pulse between the US and China" The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, has defended that the European Union "cannot be the collateral victim of the pulse between the US and China". He said this in an interview in La Vanguardia, when asked if he believes that the EU could align itself on China with the United States. On the effects on European industry of the inflation reduction law approved by the United States, Michel said that "Europe is paying an extremely high bill for the energy crisis", and believes that, at the same time, energy exporting countries such as the United States or Norway are obtaining more income. He assured that the credibility of the EU institutions in the face of the energy crisis will depend on their "ability to demonstrate that they can protect citizens and companies in the face of economic difficulties". 08:04 Zelensky convinced that a special court will judge "Russian aggression" Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky said Friday he is convinced that there will be a special court that will judge Russia for its aggression against Ukraine. "I am sure that there will be a court, there will be justice," he said in his usual evening address. In his address, the Ukrainian president explained that all this week Ukraine has been working "at various levels in European capitals to obtain a critical mass of support for the launch of a special court: a court on Russian aggression." 07:56 Rafael Grossi to meet again with Putin to negotiate on Zaporiyia The Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Argentinean Rafael Grossi, will meet again with Russian President Vladimir Putin to try to create a safety zone at the Zaporiyia power plant that would prevent a nuclear catastrophe during the war with Ukraine. "I am impatient for this. I don't know when exactly it will be, but we are discussing it," Grossi said during his speech at the Rome MED Conference, an event held in the Italian capital that has brought together heads of state and representatives from more than 50 countries. The OIE director, who already met with Putin last October, has been negotiating for some time with Russia and Ukraine for the establishment of a bombing-free zone in the Zaporiyia province, where the continent's largest nuclear power plant is located. 07:47 Bulgaria defies EU by allowing Russian refinery to continue exporting The interim government of Bulgaria has authorized the refinery that the Russian company Lukoil Neftohim has on its territory to continue exporting some oil derivatives until next March, a measure that it assures does not breach the EU sanctions against Russia but that Brussels criticizes. As part of the sanctions against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine in February, Bulgaria received last June an exception from the European Union to allow it to continue importing Russian oil by sea until the end of 2024, a measure that did not, however, provide for permission to export Russian oil or derivatives. The European Union will begin to apply the embargo to crude oil imports on December 5 and to derivatives on February 5. In its announcement, the Bulgarian government states that the "special exception" provided for in a regulation adopted by the European Council in 2014 on restrictive measures related to Russia's actions to destabilize Ukraine applies. 07:39 Russia evacuates vulnerable population of Nova Kakhovka on the east bank of the Dnieper River Russian authorities in the occupied town of Nova Kakhovka in eastern Ukraine have announced the beginning of the process of evacuation of the vulnerable population in this town that has sheltered hundreds of civilians and servicemen who have crossed the Dnieper River after the Ukrainian liberation of Kherson on the other bank. The head of the Russian military-civilian administration of the town, Pavel Filipchuk, had already ordered in mid-November the start of the evacuation procedure in the direction of the Russian town of Tuapsé in the Krasnodar region, 500 kilometers west of Kherson and past the Crimean peninsula. 07:30 VIDEO REPORT : Ukrainian soldiers live a hell of frozen mud and fire in the trenches of Bakhmut. Snow and mud force Ukraine to change strategy on the frontline. 07:23 Russians support military campaign, but want negotiations Although support for the war campaign in Ukraine remains high among Russians - in one way or another it is backed by 75% of participants in a poll published Saturday by the Levada Center - those who advocate peace negotiations have risen sharply. According to the Levada Center poll, 52% of those surveyed last November - 44% in August - were in favor of the start of peace negotiations with Ukraine, with the particularity that more than half of them said that these should start as soon as possible. Among Russians aged 18-24, 68% said they were in favor of opening peace talks with Ukraine. By contrast, those over 55 are more in favor of continuing military actions than negotiating peace. Forty-eight percent of respondents in that age range favored the first option and 44% favored the second. 07:15 Russia tries to make progress in Donetsk region, but Ukraine resists Russian troops on Saturday continued their attacks in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine with little progress due to fierce resistance from Ukrainian forces, who are trying to counterattack in some sectors of the front. "The enemy tried to launch counterattacks next to the localities of Sladkoe, Shevchenko and Novomaiorke of the Donetsk People's Republic, south of the city of Donetsk," said Russian Defense Ministry spokesman General Igor Konashenkov. In his usual daily briefing, the military officer stressed that the Ukrainian attacks were repulsed with artillery and assault aviation fire. In that sector alone, Konashenkov added, the Ukrainian forces suffered more than 40 casualties among killed and wounded. 07:08 Bakhmut, in the Russian army's sights According to the British military intelligence (DI), the Russian troops are concentrating their efforts on the capture of Bakhmut, an important communication junction north of Donetsk, would allow advancing towards Kramatorsk and Slovianks, the main Ukrainian Army strongholds in the Donetsk region. "However, the campaign has been disproportionately costly in relation to the potential gains," the DI noted today in a tweet, in which it pointed to the possibility that the capture of Bajmut is for Russia a "political, symbolic objective." In any case, in the opinion of British analysts, the logistical problems and the shortage of supplies are a brake on the offensive plans of the Russian Army. 07:00 War Ukraine - Russia, live | The latest news on the conflict Good morning! Welcome to the live coverage of the war between Ukraine and Russia. From now on and in the next hours we will inform you about all the news related to the conflict. Let's start!

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221204eic4005k4


Romania-Schengen/Pirvulescu: Today's vote will complicate situation in the country, where it will be a big disappointment
396 字
2022 年 12 月 8 日 14:36 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Dec 8 /Agerpres/ - Political scientist Cristian Pirvulescu declared, on Thursday, that the vote given in the Council of Justice and Home Affairs against Romania's accession to the Schengen Area, based on the issue of migration, will complicate the 'situations' in the country, where there was 'a great expectation', so there will be 'a big disappointment', the political scientist Cristian Pirvulescu declared, on Thursday, for AGERPRES.

'I think that the real reasons are those that Austria told, those related to the issue of migration. That the issue of migration was put on the European agenda, that is another discussion. But the reason why they (Austria, ed. n.) preferred to make their internal image to make them seem like heroes of the fight against illegal immigration was this, the problem of the Schengen Area, which is viewed by many Austrians, as well as by many Europeans, as a vulnerability. Because the Schengen Area allows free movement of the crowds,' Pirvulescu said.

'It is a short-term interest. It is very likely that there were also Russian interests, yet never direct, but indirect, and, in the end, Austria's decision was linked to the issue of migration and it could not have yielded. The calculation that the Romanians made, that the Austrians would give in to pressure, it turned out to be uninspired, and those who promised support for Romania could not do it in extremis and could not sanction Croatia for this reason,' the analyst said.

Asked what Romania has to do next, Cristian Pirvulescu said that 'the Swedes, who will take over the Presidency from January 1, will take over the file and try to complete it'.

He said that the Thursday vote 'will greatly complicate the situations in the country, where there was a great expectation, so there will be a great disappointment, with consequences related to anti-European feelings, extremist tendencies, etc.'

'I don't know if this was the calculation that Austria made, but, for sure, it is the calculation that Russia made when, through intermediaries, it suggested this electoral tactics to the Austrian People's Party, whose relations with Russia are notorious,' Cristian Pîrvulescu also said.AGERPRES(RO - author: Daniel Popescu, editor: Mihai Simionescu; EN - author: Catalin Cristian Trandafir, editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020221208eic8003s5


U.S. Department of State - Secretary Antony J. Blinken With Swedish Foreign Minister Tobias Billström and Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto At a Joint Press Availability
U.S. Department of State published this content on 08 Dec 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 08 Dec 2022 19:30:32 UTC.
4541 字
2022 年 12 月 8 日
U.S. Government News and Documents via PUBT
USGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format

Secretary Antony J. Blinken With Swedish Foreign Minister Tobias Billström and Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto At a Joint Press Availability

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Good morning, everyone. Earlier this morning, I joined President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Cherelle Griner in the Oval Office. Cherelle spoke to her wife, Brittney, who is now on her way back home to the United States after a long, unjust, and wrongful detention. Listening to them connect for the first time since Brittney's been freed was as moving as it was unforgettable. Their strength, their resilience, have been nothing short of inspiring.

Let me just express my own gratitude to the State Department team and to our colleagues across the United States Government who worked tirelessly to secure Brittney Griner's release. I especially want to commend our Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs Roger Carstens and his entire team. Roger is actually accompanying Brittney home as we speak. I also extend our thanks to our Emirati friends, who assisted in Brittney's transfer today.

Securing the release of Americans who have been wrongfully detained is a top priority for me as Secretary of State, and it's something that we work on every single day. And so while we're elated at Brittney returning home, we continue to work relentlessly to bring Paul Whelan home as well. Despite our efforts, the Russian Government has not yet been willing to end his wrongful detention. They continue to insist on sham charges of espionage and are treating Paul's case differently. As a result, Paul and his loved ones continue to suffer needlessly and unjustly.

This was not a choice of which American to bring home. The choice was one or none. I wholeheartedly wish that we could have brought Paul home today on the same plane as Brittney, just as, as the time, I wished we could have Brittney and Paul home when we secured the release of Trevor Reed back in April. But we will stay at it. We continue to work with the Whelan family, who've been extraordinarily gracious, and we hold them in our thoughts and prayers always, but especially today. And we will never relent until Paul - and for that matter, every other U.S. national held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad - is free and coming home and joining their families, where they belong.

Now turning to our bilateral and trilateral meetings today, it's a particular pleasure to have my friends Pekka and Tobias here. Foreign Minister Haavisto, Foreign Minister Billström are close colleagues. They themselves are extremely close colleagues, especially in recent months. But we held very productive conversations this morning, both bilaterally and together the three of us.

This is the second time that we've met in the last two weeks. Last week, Tobias and Pekka were with us in Bucharest. In fact, I was sitting next to them at the NATO table for the ministerial meeting that we had, just the latest demonstration that Sweden and Finland are ready to bring their strengths to bear to our Alliance.

As we speak, President Putin is trying to weaponize winter. Russia has destroyed over a third of Ukraine's energy system, plunging its most vulnerable civilians into cold, into darkness as the frigid temperatures set it. Families, the elderly, disabled people, children - all targets. Two weeks ago, doctors in Kyiv were in the middle of preforming open-heart surgery on a 14-year-old boy when Russian missiles knocked out the power, forcing them to continue the operation by the glow of their phones. That is what President Putin's war looks like: A child on an operating table, fighting for his life, while Russian strikes bring death from the skies.

President Putin has failed at defeating Russia - defeating Ukraine on the battlefield. He has failed at his land grabs in the south and east. He's failed at erasing Ukraine's borders, its identity, its people, its resilience. And as Sweden and Finland prepare to join NATO, we know that he's failed at weakening our Alliance. Indeed, he's only made NATO stronger and bigger.

Finland and Sweden fully understand what's at stake for Ukraine, for NATO, for the entire world at this critical moment. They've been partners in maintaining a firm, united response to President Putin's brutal war of aggression against Ukraine. This year, Sweden and Finland have sent well over $1 billion in security, humanitarian, and other assistance to Ukraine. Both recently announced their largest ever packages of military aid. Swedes and Finns have welcomed tens of thousands of displaced Ukrainians into their communities, giving them housing, school access to their kids, opportunities at work for the adults. As EU members, they're joining our partners to level unprecedented sanctions against Russia to curtail its ability to wage this war.

Finland and Sweden are ready to be NATO Allies. Their troops have served shoulder to shoulder with U.S. and NATO forces in Kosovo, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, in Libya. Both are members of NATO's Partnership for Peace and NATO's Enhanced Opportunity Partnership, meaning, to put it into plain English, that their militaries work nearly seamlessly with Alliance forces.

Finland and Sweden will bolster our Alliance not only through their military capabilities, but also through their values - an abiding commitment to democracy, the rules-based international order, respect for human rights, respect for human dignity.

I'm confident that NATO will formally welcome Finland and Sweden as members soon. Since the NATO Summit in Madrid, both countries have taken significant concrete actions to fulfill their commitments, including those related to the security concerns on the part of our ally Turkey. As their membership process continues, the United States is fully committed to Finland and Sweden's accession. The strength of that support can be seen in our Senate's overwhelming bipartisan vote for their membership, just weeks after their application was submitted.

Of course, the partnership that the United States has with both countries - with Sweden, with Finland - goes well beyond our cooperation on supporting Ukraine or countering Russian's aggression. As trade and economic partners, our countries and businesses are making investments that are expanding opportunity and improving the lives for families on both sides of the Atlantic. As innovation powerhouses, we're collaborating to address some of the most urgent global challenges, like the climate crisis. As leading democracies, we're advancing governance priorities, including freedom of expression, combatting corruption, advancing gender equality around the world.

Our close collaboration on Arctic issues touches on all of these priorities. The United States is an Arctic nation, and therefore we have a profound stake in advancing an Arctic region that is peaceful, stable, prosperous, and cooperative.

Let me just close with a note about our shared history. People from the Nordic countries first came to our shores more than a century before the birth of the United States. Generations followed that journey. Today, roughly 11 million Americans trace their ancestry to Nordic countries. Throughout our histories, the United States has looked to Sweden and Finland not only as partners but as friends. And so Pekka, Tobias - my friends - we're so proud to stand with you as prepare to take the significant step and join us as NATO Allies. Thank you.

Pekka.

FOREIGN MINISTER HAAVISTO: Thanks, Tony, and thanks for welcoming us so warmly to Washington. It's great to be here again. And also congratulations for bringing your citizen back home.

I really want to thank Secretary Blinken for this excellent bilateral meeting today, as well as for these customs and exchange of views with you, Tony, today together with my Swedish colleague, Minister Billström.

We announced earlier this autumn between Finland and U.S. that we will renegotiate the Defense Cooperation Agreement, DCA. The DCA is a continuation of earlier cooperation between the United States and Finland. The agreement provides a framework for deepening defense cooperation and strengthening the partnership between our two countries.

During our bilateral meeting today, we focused naturally a great deal on the security situation in Europe. We discussed Finland's NATO process, Russia's war against Ukraine, and our support to Ukraine. We emphasized the importance of transatlantic relations. We also had good exchange of views on China.

We are, of course, grateful for the strong support we have received from the United States during our NATO accession process and the first phase of ratifications from member states, including U.S. It's important for us that our accession process - processes continue to advance together with Sweden.

In the NATO foreign minister's meeting in Bucharest, we - together with Sweden - had discussions with both Turkey and Hungary on our membership process. As a future ally, Finland commits to NATO's 360-degree approach to security. We take the security concerns of all Allies seriously. Finland is a security provider whose membership will further strengthen the Alliance as a whole. There's a very strong public support in Finland for our NATO membership, and we hope to finalize the process soon.

And a couple of words about Ukraine and Russia. We discussed also bilaterally Ukraine's immediate and long-term needs. Actually, I had - together with Tobias - a possibility to visit Kyiv one week ago, meeting President Zelenskyy and seeing the destruction caused by Russian bombings, particularly to the electricity network. We are now mobilizing also private sector help to Ukraine.

It's very important that we continue both military and humanitarian and development aid towards Ukraine, and we thank U.S. for very active role on that. Finland continues to support Ukraine as long as necessary. Finland has already decided on 10 defense material assistance packages to Ukraine and is prepared to deliver more. Finland is also ready to participate in Ukraine's reconstruction.

We need to keep up and increase the sanction pressure on Russia, and that has to continue as long as needed. The aggression is illegal, and we have to recognize that. It's important also to continue to coordinate our actions with partners. Important that we counter Russia's false narratives. Russia is spreading disinformation and weaponizing food and energy in order to weaken support to Ukraine.

The manner in which Russia is waging war in Ukraine flagrantly violates international law, deliberately targeting military operations at civilians and civilian targets is a war crime. We must hold Russia accountable for its violations of international law and ensure that there is no impunity for atrocity crimes committed in Ukraine. Russia bears responsibility for the damages caused by its internationally wrongful act in and against Ukraine. Thank you.

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Tobias.

FOREIGN MINISTER BILLSTRÖM: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, dear Tony. A warm thanks, first of all, for hosting us here in Washington, D.C. And many congratulations for bringing your citizen successfully back home.

I'm especially delighted that I could pay this visit at an early stage of my tenure. The transatlantic relationship is a top priority for the Swedish Government, and our fruitful discussions today are just one evidence of that.

We are facing the greatest foreign security and defense policy challenges of modern times. If anything, the challenge of today and of tomorrow prove that there is no alternative to cooperation on the strong and close transatlantic relations.

I want to thank you for the United States' deep and determined engagement for European security, for your strong and substantial support to Ukraine, and as well for your staunch support to Sweden's and Finland's decision to join NATO.

Standing here today together with our dear neighbor Finland proves that we are in this together.

Today's discussion have been immensely valuable in both the bilateral and trilateral formats. Naturally, we focused on our NATO accession process, which is progressing well. We are eager to join and to contribute to the security of the entire Alliance. We discussed our individual and joint support for - to Ukraine, which continue unabatedly, as strong as ever.

On our side, the Swedish Government has most recently presented a record-sized winter support package to Ukraine, including both humanitarian and military aid, totaling over $830 million. We stand by Ukraine and we will do everything to help them to win this war with the aim of restoring their territorial integrity. But I would really like, again, to offer my thanks to the American people and to the U.S. Government for all that you are doing for Ukraine, and I would like to encourage our European friends, the member states, to step up to match your endeavors and your efforts.

In our discussions today I also shared Sweden's plans and priorities as incoming presidency of the EU Council on Ukraine, and further EU support to Ukraine will be at the top of our agenda. We will also seek to enhance transatlantic cooperation in many ways during our EU presidency.

Today I am particularly happy and proud to stand here together with you, Pekka and Tony, demonstrating our strong partnership. I look forward to continue working closely with you on our common interests. Thank you.

MR PRICE: We'll now turn to questions, and we'll start with Shannon Crawford of ABC.

QUESTION: Thank you so much. My first question is for all three officials. One - despite NATO's remarkable unity, one member of the Alliance, Turkey, has effectively held the accession process hostage for months now with really no clear sign of letting up. Now, while some of Turkey's demands have been met, the country has yet to even specifically outline its requirements for winning its approval. But meanwhile, the clock is ticking and Secretary General Stoltenberg is warning that the delay could allow for a miscalculation from Moscow. How long can the Alliance afford to wait? And Mr. Secretary, can we expect the U.S. to take a more direct role at any point?

And on the breaking news this morning, of course, the U.S. is preparing to welcome Brittney Griner home. But as you noted, Secretary Blinken, there is another wrongfully detained American that's still in Russia: Paul Whelan. Now, the administration has successfully negotiated two prisoner swaps with Moscow, but Paul has been left out of both. And as you note, that's not for lack of trying on the U.S. side. Do you see any signs of optimism, any reason for hope that Russia might be willing to negotiate and complete a swap for Paul Whelan? And what is the U.S. willing to do to bring him home? Will the U.S. go beyond a one-for-one prisoner swap?

SECRETARY BLINKEN: I'm happy to start - first of all, on the NATO question. Look, it's important, first of all, to put this in perspective. When it comes to the accession of new members - in this case, Finland and Sweden - the process has never moved faster. All 30 Allies signed the accession protocols; 28 of the 30, of course, have ratified them, and we are working toward the additional ratifications - Turkey and Hungary. And I am convinced, based on everything I know, that we will soon be able to call both countries formally our allies.

I've got to say I'm further convinced of that by my own recent visit to Bucharest, where we were all around the same table. As it happens, I sat next to both of our colleagues there. Finland and Sweden are already integrating into our work. And as I mentioned as well, there can be no doubt on anyone's part that they are ready today to be formal members of the Alliance. Our own Senate agreed to their membership mere weeks after their application, and there is overwhelming support in Congress for that. I know that both of my friends will have or will spend some time with Congress.

Turkey has raised important security concerns in this process, and the process is being used effectively and productively to address those concerns. And I won't speak for either of my colleagues on that, except to say, as we've observed it, what both countries have done in engaging with Turkey and with NATO itself has been to address those concerns in tangible ways. And we've seen these countries take tangible steps to, again, address the concerns that Turkey has raised.

So I'm confident that this is moving forward, it's moving forward in a process that is appropriate, and that we will soon welcome them as members. But let me turn to each of you, and I'll come back to the second part of your question.

FOREIGN MINISTER HAAVISTO: Thank you, an excellent question. And we already established this tripartite working group in Madrid NATO Summit. This working group has been meeting on the expert level, one time in Stockholm, one time in Helsinki. Those meetings have been very good and issues have been clarified regarding Turkish concern on the terrorism. PKK as an organization is forbidden organization in the whole Europe, including Finland and Sweden, and so forth. So those issues that are mentioned in the memorandum, tripartite memorandum, are very much fulfilled. Our minister of defense has just visited Ankara during these days, yesterday and today, and so forth, so this - also the bilateral cooperation has been ongoing.

Of course, what we are still missing is the clear date and clear plan of the Turkish parliament to deal with this issue. And we know that Turkey is going to the elections. Of course, our hope is that this decision should come from Turkey rather sooner than later.

We had an announcement in Bucharest during the Bucharest meeting from Hungary that they are ready to ratify in the beginning of February, and of course we hope that this will be the timetable that both of our countries could come as members, full members of NATO.

FOREIGN MINISTER BILLSTRÖM: Thank you very much. I could make it easy, yes, by standing by what Pekka has just said, but I would like to make a few additions of my own. Yes, as the Secretary said, we are addressing the concerns raised by Turkey within the memorandum, the trilateral memorandum signed at the Madrid Summit, and we are doing it step by step with the contents, but it has to be understood as well that the fulfillment of a memorandum has to take place within the framework of the constitution that we have in Sweden, the legislation, and basic principles of the rules of law. And this is something which the Turkish Government is well aware of.

But within those limits, everything will be fulfilled. That is written down in the memorandum by all the three parties. And I myself am soon going to Ankara to continue the discussions with my Turkish and - my and Pekka's Turkish colleague on the spot, and I hope that the outcome of that discussion will also bring us forward. A constant dialogue between the governments, between the authorities in the various countries, is also important to underline as a part of the fulfillment of the memorandum. Thank you.

SECRETARY BLINKEN: And on the second part of the question, with regard to Paul Whelan, first, back in July I made public what had been going on in private for some time: persistent efforts to secure the release of both Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan. I spoke directly to Foreign Minister Lavrov at the time. We've had numerous engagements ever since on the basis of the substantial proposal that we had put on the table, and then different permutations as we worked back and forth with the Russians. The presidents had established a channel to do this; we've been engaged in it ever since.

We followed up on the initial proposal, as I said, looking at different ways to get this done. And by "get this done," I mean bring both Brittney and Paul home. And as I said a few moments ago, this was not a choice about which American to bring home. The choice was, in this instance, one or none. Because, unfortunately, Russia has continued to see Paul's case through the lens of sham espionage charges and they are treating him differently than they treated Brittney Griner. We've made every possible offer available to us thus far to secure Paul's release, but in this moment, there was no way to bring him home along with Brittney.

Again, this was the same situation that we faced back in April. We got Trevor Reed home. We wanted to bring Brittney and Paul home at the same time. In that moment we were not able to do so; in this moment we were not able to secure Paul's release. But going forward, we remain absolutely determined to do that and we will continue to engage the Russians on Paul and we'll continue to look at everything possible to bring him home.

But again, we didn't want to lose the opportunity today to secure the release of one of them. We've had the opportunity to speak directly to Paul Whelan over the last 24 hours, and let me simply say that he's extraordinarily gracious as well as being extraordinarily courageous. We've spoken to his family. We'll continue to do that and we'll continue to work very closely with them in the effort that will not cease until Paul is home.

MR PRICE: Iida Tikka of Yle News, Finland.

QUESTION: Thank you. A little follow-up on the NATO accession talks question. Publicly the U.S. has stayed seemingly on the sidelines of these talks between Finland, Sweden, and Turkey. Is this image still correct, and why is the U.S. not taking more active role? Is this because of lack of will or political clout?

SECRETARY BLINKEN: This is and has been from the start a process, and it's a process that every prospective member of NATO goes through and a process, as I said, that has actually worked so far at record speed. We've never seen a process move this quickly when it comes to the accession of new members. And as I noted a few moments ago, as I said, all 30 have signed the protocols; 28 have ratified, and two are left to ratify.

In the context of this process, Turkey has raised concerns, and concerns that are best addressed directly by Finland and Sweden with NATO's assistance as necessary. And as you've heard from both of my colleagues, they've had a - I think what's been a very good and productive process working directly with Turkey to try to address the concerns that resulted in a memorandum of understanding that is being implemented, and concrete steps have been taken by Sweden and by Finland to make good on the commitments that they've undertaken in this process. All of that is moving forward. And again, I have every expectation that both will formally become members soon.

As for the United States, like every Ally, we have a strong stake in the membership process being completed and both countries formally joining the Alliance. We know the contributions that they can make, and those contributions could not be more important at a time when we have a variety of challenges. And that's strongly the opinion of the United States, one that we've expressed to all of our Allies, including to Turkey, over these weeks and months. It's also very strongly the opinion of the United States Congress, and it has spoken out vocally on that as well.

But again, it's our expectation that the process continues to move forward, that it's moving forward in a deliberate and appropriate way, and that it will come to a conclusion soon.

MR PRICE: And finally, Cecilia Khavar of Swedish radio.

QUESTION: Thank you so much for this opportunity. And Mr. Secretary, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg recently stated that Sweden and Finland have fulfilled their end of the deal in this process with Turkey, and we heard you just say that Sweden and Finland have taken significant steps. But what's your view on that? Has Sweden, more specifically now, fulfilled its end of the deal?

And with regard to what my colleague asked as well, you say it's a matter of Sweden and Finland to discuss directly with Turkey, but what concrete steps have you and your government taken to try and help convince Turkey to accept Sweden and Finland without delay?

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Again, this is not a bilateral issue between the United States and Turkey and it's not going to turn into one. This is a matter of having a process for the entire Alliance for new members to come in. As part of that process, one of the members has raised concerns that are being addressed directly by that country and the prospective new members.

What is clear - again, as I said - is that there is overwhelming support in the United States, not just from the President and the Executive Branch but from our Congress, when it comes to Sweden and Finland becoming members and becoming members as quickly as the process can move. We've made that point as a NATO Ally to the Turks and we've noted publicly the readiness of both Sweden and Finland to become members now.

We also acknowledge Turkey's legitimate security concerns. We have from day one. There are more terrorist attacks on Turkish soil than on the soil of any other NATO Ally.

But we also very much appreciate and acknowledge the tangible steps that both Finland and Sweden have taken, already taken, including substantially strengthening the bilateral cooperation with Turkey on their key security concerns. But this is a process that is moving forward. It's moving forward because of the very important work that both of our soon-to-be allies have done with Turkey, and I have every expectation that that process will continue and be brought to a successful conclusion soon.

QUESTION: So you don't agree with Jens Stoltenberg about - that Sweden has fulfilled their end of the deal?

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Again, they have a memorandum of understanding. Very tangible steps have been taken to implement it, and we will let them continue that process with Turkey.

MR PRICE: Thank you very much, gentlemen. Thank you very much.

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Thank you, everyone. Thank you.

* Original Link[https://www.state.gov/secretary-antony-j-blinken-with-swedish-foreign-minister-tobias-billstrom-and-finnish-foreign-minister-pekka-haavisto-at-a-joint-press-availability/]

Disclaimer

U.S. Department of State published this content on 08 December 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 08 December 2022 19:32:34 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 USGND00020221208eic800aht


Ignazio Cassis:Switzerland calls for compliance with Geneva Convention, supports war crimes' documenting efforts
514 字
2022 年 12 月 13 日 05:27 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2022 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, December 13 /Agerpres/ - Switzerland calls for the strict observance of the Geneva Convention and supports the efforts of the international community to document and sanction war crimes, the president of the Swiss Confederation, Ignazio Cassis, said on Monday evening, during a press conference held at the Cotroceni presidential Palace.

'Of course, the war in Ukraine, the Russian military aggression occupy our political agenda and, unfortunately, this aggression will not end very quickly. Here is one more reason why this visit must prompt us to tighten ties and do everything possible. Switzerland, which has a strong humanitarian tradition, is also committed to this plan. Our government has approved a credit of 100 million Swiss francs, a kind of package for the winter period, to help the people of Ukraine to fight against the cold and for the population of the Republic of Moldova, as well, which deals with the reception of refugees,' Ignazio Cassis said.

The Swiss president thanked Romania for the way it collaborates with the Republic of Moldova, noting that this country is facing great difficulties.

'Today's meeting is taking place in one of the most difficult geopolitical contexts. At the end of October I visited a country very close to Romania and today I met again with the president of the Republic of Moldova. During the discussions with president Maia Sandu I addressed the challenges and difficulties of Moldova caused by the war in Ukraine, in terms of security, energy, migration and economy, and I would like to thank you, Mr. president, for the way you collaborate with this democratic country that is facing great difficulties. Switzerland hails your commitment to Moldova. Today I also mentioned Romania's commitment in favour of the accession of Moldova and Ukraine to the European Union, a process that is one of the keys to development and stability for the entire region,' Ignazio Cassis added.

For his part, president Iohannis declared that the bilateral discussions focused on the evolution of the war in Ukraine, its multidimensional impact, as well as the response of our states.

'I found, thus, that Romania and the Swiss Confederation have convergent positions. I evoked the negative effects of the war started by Russia on the social and humanitarian dimensions, on food and energy security, as well as on the level of international security, especially in the Black Sea region. At the same time, we discussed the assistance provided by our states to Ukraine and other partners in the area affected by the war, such as the Republic of Moldova. We highlighted Romania's complex efforts in support of over three million Ukrainian refugees who crossed our border,' the president of Romania said.

Klaus Iohannis recalled the efforts of our country to facilitate the transit of grain from Ukraine, through the Romanian ports on the Danube and the Black Sea, totaling over 10 million tonnes of grain and other agricultural products, from February 24 until now.AGERPRES(RO - author: Irinela Visan, editor: George Onea; EN - editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020221213eicd0002t


DIPLOMACY
President Cassis in Bucharest: Switzerland calls for compliance of the Geneva Convention, supports war crimes’ documenting efforts
574 字
2022 年 12 月 13 日
Nine O'Clock Online
NINEOC
英文
Copyright 2022. Nineoclock.ro. All rights reserved.
Switzerland calls for the strict observance of the Geneva Convention and supports the efforts of the international community to document and sanction war crimes, the president of the Swiss Confederation, Ignazio Cassis, said on Monday evening, during a press conference held at the Cotroceni presidential Palace.

“Of course, the war in Ukraine, the Russian military aggression occupy our political agenda and, unfortunately, this aggression will not end very quickly. Here is one more reason why this visit must prompt us to tighten ties and do everything possible. Switzerland, which has a strong humanitarian tradition, is also committed to this plan. Our government has approved a credit of 100 million Swiss francs, a kind of package for the winter period, to help the people of Ukraine to fight against the cold and for the population of the Republic of Moldova, as well, which deals with the reception of refugees,” Ignazio Cassis said.

The Swiss president thanked Romania for the way it collaborates with the Republic of Moldova, noting that this country is facing great difficulties.

“Today’s meeting is taking place in one of the most difficult geopolitical contexts. At the end of October I visited a country very close to Romania and today I met again with the president of the Republic of Moldova. During the discussions with president Maia Sandu I addressed the challenges and difficulties of Moldova caused by the war in Ukraine, in terms of security, energy, migration and economy, and I would like to thank you, Mr. president, for the way you collaborate with this democratic country that is facing great difficulties. Switzerland hails your commitment to Moldova. Today I also mentioned Romania’s commitment in favour of the accession of Moldova and Ukraine to the European Union, a process that is one of the keys to development and stability for the entire region,” Ignazio Cassis added, according to Agerpres.

For his part, president Iohannis declared that the bilateral discussions focused on the evolution of the war in Ukraine, its multidimensional impact, as well as the response of our states.

“I found, thus, that Romania and the Swiss Confederation have convergent positions. I evoked the negative effects of the war started by Russia on the social and humanitarian dimensions, on food and energy security, as well as on the level of international security, especially in the Black Sea region. At the same time, we discussed the assistance provided by our states to Ukraine and other partners in the area affected by the war, such as the Republic of Moldova. We highlighted Romania’s complex efforts in support of over three million Ukrainian refugees who crossed our border,” the president of Romania said.

Klaus Iohannis recalled the efforts of our country to facilitate the transit of grain from Ukraine, through the Romanian ports on the Danube and the Black Sea, totaling over 10 million tonnes of grain and other agricultural products, from February 24 until now.

Photo: www.presidency.ro[http://www.presidency.ro]

Read also:

Romania to benefit from 221 million Swiss francs for economic growth, energy efficiency, based on a framework agreement signed in Bucharest[https://www.nineoclock.ro/2022/12/13/romania-to-benefit-from-221-million-swiss-francs-for-economic-growth-energy-efficiency-based-on-a-framework-agreement-signed-in-bucharest/] The post President Cassis in Bucharest: Switzerland calls for compliance of the Geneva Convention, supports war crimes’ documenting efforts[https://www.nineoclock.ro/2022/12/13/president-cassis-in-bucharest-switzerland-calls-for-compliance-of-the-geneva-convention-supports-war-crimes-documenting-efforts/] first appeared on Nine O' Clock - first exclusively daily publication to appear in English language in Romania[https://www.nineoclock.ro].

Click to view image[https://www.nineoclock.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/cassis.jpg]

Cristiana Invest Press SRL

文件 NINEOC0020221213eicd0002v


Romania This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 18024 字, (英文)
Industrial production in Romania dragged down by high energy pricesIndustrial production in Romania contracted by 2.6% y/y in January-October and the government’s forecasting body expects only a marginal recovery in 2023.

Former Soviet Union Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 11853 字, (英文)
Moldova considers suing Gazprom for failing to deliver contracted amounts of gasMoldova is currently evaluating the option to sue Gazprom for failing to deliver the amounts of gas specified in the contract signed last year, the country’s ...

Romania This Week - December 23, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 23 日, 3986 字, (英文)
THE MITTELEUROPEAN VIEW: Western banks go back to square one in CEEThe key messages of this year's Raiffeisen Research CEE Banking Sector Report at the industry level are as follows: Geopolitically, the leading CEE banks in Eastern Europe ...

European Court of Human Rights judgment: CASE OF EL OZAIR v. ROMANIA
2216 字
2023 年 1 月 4 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Brussels: European Court of Human Rights has issued the following judgment on (22 October 2019):

FOURTH SECTION

CASE OF EL OZAIR v. ROMANIA

(Application no. 41845/12)

JUDGMENT STRASBOURG

22 October 2019

This judgment is final but it may be subject to editorial revision.

In the case of El Ozair v. Romania, The European Court of Human Rights (Fourth Section), sitting as a Committee composed of:

Faris Vehabović, President, Iulia Antoanella Motoc, Carlo Ranzoni, judges, and Andrea Tamietti, Deputy Section Registrar, Having deliberated in private on 1 October 2019, Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date:

PROCEDURE

1. The case originated in an application (no. 41845/12) against Romania lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ("the Convention") by a Lebanese and Guatemalan national, Mr Lorence El Ozair ("the applicant"), on 18 May 2012.

2. The applicant was represented by Mr S.D. Lungu, a lawyer practising in Bucharest. The Romanian Government ("the Government") were represented by their Agent, most recently Mr V. Mocanu of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

3. On 29 May 2018 the Government were given notice of the complaint concerning an alleged breach of the applicant's right to respect for his possessions on account of the sanctions imposed on him by the Customs Office for failure to declare a sum of cash upon exiting the country. The remainder of the application was declared inadmissible pursuant to Rule 54 § 3 of the Rules of Court.

4. The Government objected to the examination of the application by a Committee. Having considered the Government's objection, the Court dismisses it.

THE FACTS THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CASE

5. The applicant was born in 1964 and lives in Bucharest.

6. In the night of 16-17 October 2010, prior to embarking a flight to Lebanon, the applicant was stopped by a customs officer before exiting the customs control area. When asked, the applicant declared that he was carrying 13,500 US dollars (USD), that is to say a little less than the maximum amount allowed of 10,000 euros (EUR) (see paragraph 13 below). His luggage was searched by the customs officer in the applicant's presence. An additional sum of USD 80,000 was found hidden in a shoe.

7. The money found in the luggage was confiscated on the spot and the applicant was fined 8,000 Romanian lei (RON), approximately EUR 1,800 at that time.

8. On 2 November 2010 the applicant lodged an application with the Buftea District Court, seeking annulment of the administrative-offence report. He argued that he had that money from selling a car and his share in a flat in Bucharest. He presented copies of the respective sales contracts.

9. The District Court dismissed the action in a decision of 15 March 2011. The court established that the applicant had intended to hide the amount of USD 80,000 in order to avoid declaring it. The court further considered that the fine inflicted on the applicant had been proportionate to the seriousness of the deed and reiterated that the confiscation of the amount over the legal limit of EUR 10,000 was expressly provided by law and was thus mandatory.

10. The applicant appealed, and in a final decision of 19 January 2012 the Bucharest County Court upheld the previous decision on the same grounds as those given by the District Court. As for the sanctions applied, the court found as follows:

"Even assuming that this sum of cash is not related to any illegal activity, as [the applicant] avers, this fact is irrelevant, in so far as the legislature criminalised the very act of failing to declare in writing, to the Customs Office, sums of cash of a value equal or more than that set by [the relevant EU] Regulation, independent of the source of that sum of cash.

As for the penalty applied, the court considers that it was correctly individualised, bearing in mind the seriousness of the deeds committed."

RELEVANT DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL LAW AND PRACTICE

11. The relevant provisions of Government Decision no. 707/2006 on the Rules of enforcement of the Customs Code read as follows:

Article 653

"The following is considered an administrative offence and shall be sanctioned with a fine between [RON] 3,000 and 8,000 ...:

(i) failure by natural persons who cross the border to abide by the obligation prescribed under Article (3) of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council, to declare in writing to the customs authorities of cash in national and/or foreign currency equal or higher than the limit prescribed by that Regulation, carried upon themselves, in their means of transportation or in their attended or unattended luggage, as well as in parcels. Cash undeclared in writing and exceeding the limit prescribed by [Regulation (EC) No 1889/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council] shall be confiscated."

12. A comprehensive presentation of the relevant provisions of EU law and practice and of the international standards on money laundering can be found in Grifhorst v. France (no. 28336/02, §§ 27-56, 26 February 2009).

13. In particular, the relevant provisions of Regulation (EC) no I1889/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on controls of cash entering or leaving the Community read as follows:

Article 3

Obligation to declare

"1. Any natural person entering or leaving the Community and carrying cash of a value of EUR 10 000 or more shall declare that sum to the competent authorities of the Member State through which he is entering or leaving the Community in accordance with this Regulation. The obligation to declare shall not have been fulfilled if the information provided is incorrect or incomplete."

Article 4

Powers of the competent authorities

"1. In order to check compliance with the obligation to declare laid down in Article 3, officials of the competent authorities shall be empowered, in accordance with the conditions laid down under national legislation, to carry out controls on natural persons, their baggage and their means of transport.

2. In the event of failure to comply with the obligation to declare laid down in Article 3, cash may be detained by administrative decision in accordance with the conditions laid down under national legislation."

Article 9

Penalties

"1. Each Member State shall introduce penalties to apply in the event of failure to comply with the obligation to declare laid down in Article 3. Such penalties shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. By 15 June 2007, Member States shall notify the Commission of the penalties applicable in the event of failure to comply with the obligation to declare laid down in Article 3."

14. In addition on 30 January 2019 the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the CJEU") examined an application for a preliminary ruling on whether national legislation allowing, in addition to the imposition of a penalty of a term of imprisonment or a fine, the undeclared sum to be confiscated by the State was proportionate (Joined Cases C-335/18 and

C-336/18). It considered that an overall penalty consisting of fine and confiscation of the entire sum of undeclared cash was not proportionate to the aims sought.

THE LAW

ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 1 OF PROTOCOL No. 1 TO THE CONVENTION

15. The applicant complained that the confiscation of USD 80,000 that he had failed to declare to a customs officer and the additional RON 8,000 fine imposed had breached his right to respect for his possessions, as provided in Article 1 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention, which reads as follows:

"Every natural or legal person is entitled to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions. No one shall be deprived of his possessions except in the public interest and subject to the conditions provided for by law and by the general principles of international law.

The preceding provisions shall not, however, in any way impair the right of a State to enforce such laws as it deems necessary to control the use of property in accordance with the general interest or to secure the payment of taxes or other contributions or penalties."

Admissibility

16. The Court notes that the application is not manifestly ill-founded within the meaning of Article 35 § 3 (a) of the Convention. It further notes that it is not inadmissible on any other grounds. It must therefore be declared admissible.

Merits (a) The parties' observations

17. The applicant made reference to his statements from the application form. He contended that his right to respect for his possessions had been breached.

18. The Government admitted that the sanctions represented interference with the applicant's right to peaceful enjoyment of possessions. However, that interference was provided for by law and served the legitimate aim of preventing money laundering. They further contended that the two sanctions inflicted on the applicant had been proportionate to the specific danger represented by the applicant's conduct. Moreover, the domestic courts had reviewed the proportionality of the measures. They also noted that the fine itself had represented barely 2.25% of the amount that the applicant had failed to declare.

(b) The Court's assessment

19. The applicable general principles are set out in Grifhorst v. France (no. 28336/02, §§ 81-83, 26 February 2009).

20. Turning to the facts of the present case, the Court observes that it is not in dispute between the parties that the sanction imposed on the applicant represented interference with his right to peaceful enjoyment of possessions (see paragraph 18 above; see also Ismayilov v. Russia, no. 30352/03, § 29, 6 November 2008).

21. The Court reiterates its consistent approach that a confiscation measure, even though it involves a deprivation of possessions, falls within the scope of the second paragraph of Article 1 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention, which allows the Contracting States to control the use of property (see Grifhorst, §§ 85-86, and Ismayilov § 30, both cited above).

22. The obligation to declare the amount transported across the border is expressly provided in domestic law and in European Union law (see paragraphs 11 and 13 above). The domestic law provides the sanctions in the event of a failure to declare: a fine and confiscation of the sum of cash. The Court is therefore satisfied that the interference with the applicant's property rights was provided for by law, as required by Article 1 of Protocol No. 1 (see, mutatis mutandis, Grifhorst, cited above, §§ 90-91).

23. The Court further considers that the interference pursued a legitimate aim in the general interest, namely the fight against money laundering (ibid., § 92; see also Boljević v. Croatia, no. 43492/11, § 40, 31 January 2017, with further references).

24. Accordingly, the remaining question for the Court to determine is whether there was a reasonable relationship of proportionality between the means employed by the authorities to achieve that aim and the protection of the applicant's right to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions. The requisite balance will not be achieved if the applicant has had to bear an individual and excessive burden (see Ismayilov, § 34; Grifhorst, § 94; and Boljević, § 41, judgments cited above).

25. The Court notes that the only administrative offence of which the applicant was found guilty consisted of his failure to declare to the customs authorities the USD 80,000 in cash which he was carrying. It has not been established that the confiscated cash had been unlawfully obtained (see paragraph 10 above). The applicant presented documentary evidence showing that the money had originated from the sale of his property (see paragraph 8 above). However, this element was of no relevance for the domestic courts, in so far as the domestic legislation imposed an automatic confiscation of any undeclared cash (see paragraph 11 above). Moreover, there is nothing to suggest that, by confiscating the amount of USD 80,000 from the applicant, the authorities sought to forestall any criminal activities, such as money laundering (see, mutatis mutandis, Gyrlyan v. Russia, no. 35943/15, § 27, 9 October 2018, and Boljević, cited above, § 43).

26. The confiscation measure in question was purely deterrent and punitive in its purpose. However, it has not been convincingly shown that the fine alone was not sufficient to achieve the desired deterrent and punitive effect and prevent future breaches of the declaration requirement. In these circumstances, the Court concludes that the confiscation of the entire amount of money that should have been declared, as an additional sanction to the fine, was disproportionate (ibid., § 45, with further references). The Court cannot but note that the CJEU has also recently decided that an overall penalty consisting of a fine and confiscation of the entire sum of undeclared cash was not proportionate (see paragraph 14 above).

27. The foregoing considerations are sufficient to enable the Court to conclude that by confiscating the undeclared sum of cash in addition to fining the applicant, the authorities imposed an excessive burden on the applicant which was disproportionate to the offence committed.

There has accordingly been a violation of Article 1 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention.

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020230104ej1400081


Daily Briefing
TMK deconsolidates EU steel mills; Rusal about to lose alumina refinery to Ukraine: sources
Ekaterina Bouckley
634 字
2023 年 1 月 12 日
Platts Daily Briefing
STSCNW
1
ISSN: 214310, 1, Issue 214310
英文
© 2023 S&P Global
Russian steel pipe maker TMK and Russian aluminum producer Rusal are set to lose some of their foreign assets -- the former in the EU and the latter in Ukraine, industry sources told S&P Global Commodity Insights Jan. 12. Romanian steel pipe manufacturer TMK-Artrom is changing its name to Artrom Steel Tubes due to a change of ownership; the enterprise no longer belongs to TMK, having been sold to an unnamed Serbian company, a source at Artrom told S&P Global Jan. An Artrom spokesperson declined to comment, saying the company would issue an official announcement soon. A TMK spokesman declined to confirm the deal. However, on its website, TMK said it had excluded from the list of affiliated entities its only manufacturing division in the EU -- TMK-Artrom – along with several EU-based procurement and marketing firms, including TMK Europe and TMK Italia.

Romania-based seamless pipe producer TMK Artrom, now Artrom Steel Tubes, comprises the 450,000 mt/year Resita steel billet casting mill and the 200,000 mt/year Slatina pipe rolling mill, as well as sales offices in Italy and Germany. It is not clear whether the deconsolidation of Artrom is a decision taken under pressure from sanctions, or whether TMK had been seeking buyers for the Romanian mills before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but the latter has clearly accelerated the process. In March, shortly after the EU imposed sanctions on then-TMK owner Dmitry Pumpyansky, Romania's tax authority blocked TMK-Artrom's bank accounts, disrupting its sales operations and prompting union members at the Slatina and Resita mills to stage a protest to force the government to lift the restrictions, as S&P Global reported. At the time TMK-Artrom said it had contracts with more than 600 customers from the EU, the US and Canada. TMK invested Eur250 million in the two plants over several years. However, this amount is unlikely to fully include the project TMK announced in 2019 that was aimed at increasing TMK-Artrom's rolling capacity by 60% to 320,000 mt/year by 2024.

Ukraine moves to take over Rusal refinery

In Ukraine, the government has initiated the nationalization of a significant Rusal alumina asset, a move not without precedent; shortly after Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula in 2014, Ukraine took ownership of an aluminum smelter owned by Rusal. Rusal may lose its 100% ownership of Ukraine-based Nikolaev Alumina Refinery for good; Ukraine's justice ministry said Jan. 10 that it had asked the country's anti-corruption high court to approve its seizure on the grounds that Rusal supplies the Russian defense industry, according to the information available to the ministry, arguing that Ukraine's aluminum-making raw materials must not be made available to the Russian company for that purpose. Apart from the Nikolaev (or Mykolaiv in Ukrainian) alumina refinery, the ministry also asked the court to sanction the expropriation and transition to Ukrainian state ownership of Glukhiv Quarry Quartzite, Zaporizhsky Aluminum Combine and several other assets, most of which are minor and are affiliated to Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, according to the ministry. Rusal had obtained a license for the extraction of quartzite at the Glukhov mine in 2017 and the permit was due to remain valid until 2037, the company said in its 2017 annual report. However, Zaporozhye (aka Zaporizhsky) Aluminium Combine, or ZALK, has long been deconsolidated. Rusal had lost control of ZALK, 98% of which it used to own, in March 2015, when Ukraine's Supreme Court upheld a previous court decision to renationalize and transfer to the State Property Fund of Ukraine 68% of ZALK's shares, according to Rusal's report for 2015. -- Ekaterina Bouckley

S&P Global

文件 STSCNW0020230113ej1c0000o


News, Notes, Rationales and Marketplace; News Stories
TMK deconsolidates EU steel mills; Rusal about to lose alumina refinery to Ukraine: sources
Ekaterina Bouckley
657 字
2023 年 1 月 12 日
Platts Metals Daily
METLSDLY
ISSN: 2325-0658, 12, Issue 8
英文
© 2023 S&P Global
* Artrom prepares statement to announce new name, owner

* Nikolaev largest among assets Ukraine wants to take from Rusal

Russian steel pipe maker TMK and Russian aluminum producer Rusal are set to lose some of their foreign assets -- the former in the EU and the latter in Ukraine, industry sources told S&P Global Commodity Insights Jan. 12.

Romanian steel pipe manufacturer TMK-Artrom is changing its name to Artrom Steel Tubes due to a change of ownership; the enterprise no longer belongs to TMK, having been sold to an unnamed Serbian company, a source at Artrom told S&P Global Jan.

An Artrom spokesperson declined to comment, saying the company would issue an official announcement soon. A TMK spokesman declined to confirm the deal.

However, on its website, TMK said it had excluded from the list of affiliated entities its only manufacturing division in the EU -- TMK-Artrom – along with several EU-based procurement and marketing firms, including TMK Europe and TMK Italia.

Romania-based seamless pipe producer TMK Artrom, now Artrom Steel Tubes, comprises the 450,000 mt/year Resita steel billet casting mill and the 200,000 mt/year Slatina pipe rolling mill, as well as sales offices in Italy and Germany.

It is not clear whether the deconsolidation of Artrom is a decision taken under pressure from sanctions, or whether TMK had been seeking buyers for the Romanian mills before Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, but the latter has clearly accelerated the process.

In March, shortly after the EU imposed sanctions on then-TMK owner Dmitry Pumpyansky, Romania's tax authority blocked TMK-Artrom’s bank accounts, disrupting its sales operations and prompting union members at the Slatina and Resita mills to stage a protest to force the government to lift the restrictions, as S&P Global reported.

At the time TMK-Artrom said it had contracts with more than 600 customers from the EU, the US and Canada.

TMK invested Eur250 million in the two plants over several years. However, this amount is unlikely to fully include the project TMK announced in 2019 that was aimed at increasing TMK-Artrom’s rolling capacity by 60% to 320,000 mt/year by 2024.

Ukraine moves to take over Rusal refinery

In Ukraine, the government has initiated the nationalization of a significant Rusal alumina asset, a move not without precedent; shortly after Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula in 2014, Ukraine took ownership of an aluminum smelter owned by Rusal.

Rusal may lose its 100% ownership of Ukraine-based Nikolaev Alumina Refinery for good; Ukraine's justice ministry said Jan. 10 that it had asked the country’s anti-corruption high court to approve its seizure on the grounds that Rusal supplies the Russian defense industry, according to the information available to the ministry, arguing that Ukraine’s aluminum-making raw materials must not be made available to the Russian company for that purpose.

Apart from the Nikolaev (or Mykolaiv in Ukrainian) alumina refinery, the ministry also asked the court to sanction the expropriation and transition to Ukrainian state ownership of Glukhiv Quarry Quartzite, Zaporizhsky Aluminum Combine and several other assets, most of which are minor and are affiliated to Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, according to the ministry.

Rusal had obtained a license for the extraction of quartzite at the Glukhov mine in 2017 and the permit was due to remain valid until 2037, the company said in its 2017 annual report.

However, Zaporozhye (aka Zaporizhsky) Aluminium Combine, or ZALK, has long been deconsolidated. Rusal had lost control of ZALK, 98% of which it used to own, in March 2015, when Ukraine's Supreme Court upheld a previous court decision to renationalize and transfer to the State Property Fund of Ukraine 68% of ZALK’s shares, according to Rusal’s report for 2015.

Ekaterina Bouckley

S&P Global

文件 METLSDLY20230209ej1c0000r


Daily News
Romanian minister of energy: No shortfall in diesel supply amid Western sanction on Russia
Rafly
368 字
2023 年 2 月 6 日
Romania-insider.com
ROMINS
英文
Copyright 2023 Business Insider SRL - All rights reserved
Virgil Popescu, the Romanian minister of energy, said that Romania will face no issue in securing diesel supply after the West imposed its second embargo sanction package against Russia, which banned all sorts of petroleum products, and ahead of the ongoing peak of extremely negative temperatures.

"Yes, Romania is a country that imports diesel. No, there is no cause for concern. We have had discussions with all the major importers in the market and the conclusion is that each has diversified its sources of supply so that there is no supply syncopation. You will see that, just as we have well overcome the embargo on Russian crude oil that started on December 5, 2022, we will also well overcome the embargo on Russian diesel," the minister wrote on his Facebook page[https://www.facebook.com/photo/?fbid=742201443927853&set=a.436335364514464].

In several Romanian cities, temperatures are reaching their lowest this year so far, and some are even facing storms of snow. Not too long ago, however, the National Agency for Meteorology reported the hottest January temperature in history[https://www.romania-insider.com/record-january-temperature-romania-2023] (+22.5 C) in Turnu Măgurele, southern Romania.

"We have gas in storage and we will easily overcome any consumption peaks generated by negative temperatures," the minister reassured, adding that Romania has no problem securing natural gas in this extreme weather.

This year, Romania recorded 1,866,300,000 cubic meters of natural gas in storage, which is more by almost 780 million from last year's number. Along with state-owned gas company Socar from Azerbaijan, Romania is ready to import an additional volume of 300 million cubic meters of gas.

"The cold season is coming to an end and we expect to come out of the winter with gas still in storage. And for next winter, we will have 1 billion cubic meters of gas from the Republic of Azerbaijan at our disposal, according to the contract signed these days with Socar. We will be well prepared for the next winter as well, as we were well prepared for this one as well", Popescu added.

rafly@romania-insider.com[mailto:rafly@romania-insider.com]

(Photo source: Virgil Popescu/Facebook)

Click to view image[https://cdn.romania-insider.com/sites/default/files/2023-02/virgil_popescu.jpg]

Business Insider SRL

文件 ROMINS0020230206ej260008h


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10822
Justina Vaišvilaitė
3890 字
2023 年 2 月 22 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10822 (95228) WEDNESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 22

 

PRESIDENT THANKS NETHERLANDS FOR CONTRIBUTION TO REGIONAL SECURITY

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – On Tuesday, President Gitanas Nausėda met with King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands in the Presidential Palace.

The meeting focussed on discussing bilateral relations, regional security issues, Russia’s war in Ukraine and preparations for the NATO summit in Vilnius, the presidency said. Before the meeting, the king of the Netherlands visited Dutch troops stationed in Lithuania

In a joint press conference after the meeting, President Nausėda thanked the Netherlands for its contribution to the security of Lithuania and the Baltic region and its continued commitment to the defence of the region.

"In these times of geopolitical turning point, we are grateful to your country for its contribution to the security of our region. Today we visited the Dutch troops deployed in the NATO Forward Presence Battle Group in Pabradė. Their presence on our territory demonstrates the unity of the Allies and their commitment to each other’s defence,” Nausėda said, addressing the king.

The Netherlands has been assisting the Baltic region in ensuring air security as part of NATO air policing mission since 2005, the president recalled.

"Lithuanian and Dutch troops train and exercise together. I hope that the excellent defence cooperation between our countries will continue and expand,” the president said.

King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands voiced his admiration for the Lithuanian Armed Forces and the determination of Lithuanian troops.

The king also noted that soldiers from different European countries arriving in Lithuania and cooperating with each other is proof of not only the friendship between Lithuania and the Netherlands, but also the friendship within Europe as a whole, which is critically important in a difficult geopolitical period.

 

PRESIDENT HEADS TO WARSAW FOR B9 SUMMIT WITH BIDEN, STOLTENBERG

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – On Wednesday, President Gitanas Nausėda will be in Warsaw to attend a summit of the Bucharest Nine (B9) that will be joined by US President Joe Biden.

The leaders of NATO’s eastern flank are also set to meet with Secretary General of the Alliance Jens Stoltenberg.

The summit will focus on regional security, support for Ukraine and preparations for the NATO summit in Vilnius this July. Issues to be discussed in Warsaw will also cover regional forward defence, air defence systems, and increased investment in the defence industry, the presidency announced.

The Bucharest Nine includes Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia.

A nine-state cooperation format was launched in order to defend shared security interests of the region within NATO following Russia’s aggression in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea.

 

UKRAINE’S ZELENSKY PLANS TO ATTEND NATO VILNIUS SUMMIT – MEDIA

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky is planning to arrive to Vilnius for the NATO summit, Ambassador of Ukraine to Lithuania Petro Beshta told the BNS news agency.

When asked whether Zelensky intended to come to the Alliance’s summit in Vilnius, the ambassador confirmed the plan, noting that Ukraine first needs an invitation as it is not a NATO member.

According to Beshta, his country expects to receive the invitation for the event, hoping to have "drastically changed” the war-related situation by then.

The NATO Summit in Vilnius will take place on 11–12 July this year.

Since the start of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February last year, Ukrainian President Zelensky has been on few foreign trips, namely to the US, the UK, France, Belgium and Poland.

 

NEARLY 15,000 MEMBERS OF ELECTORAL COMMITTEES TOWORK ON MUNICIPAL AND MAYORAL ELECTIONS

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – In preparation for municipal and mayoral elections on 5 March, the Central Electoral Commission (VRK) has hired nearly 14,900 individuals to ensure smooth organisation of elections.

Approximately 700 members of municipal electoral committees operate in 60 of Lithuania’s municipalities. Municipal electoral committees created polling district municipal committees, accepted candidates’ applications, checked voter signature collection forms, registered election observers, organised and will observe voting in municipalities until the Election Day. Municipal electoral committees also carry out monitoring of political advertising and investigate potential violations of election laws.

Voters will cast ballots in 1,927 polling districts on 5 March. The Code on Elections stipulates that a polling district electoral committee has to consist of at least 5 members.

A total of 14,200 members will help organise elections at polling district electoral committees. Their duties include distributing election notices to voters, compiling the Electoral Roll of voters at home, organising voting in hospitals, social care homes, military units, penal institutions and at home.

Members of polling district electoral committees also work on the Election Day at polling stations, count the votes when polling stations close and carry out other tasks related to organising elections.

 

CONTRACT SIGNED FOR CONSTRUCTIONS OF INFRASTRUCTURE TO HOST ALLIED FORCES

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – The Ministry of National Defence is implementing an infrastructure development project in preparation for hosting the NATO Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), the Ministry said in a statement.

The contract was signed by the NATO Support and Procurement Agency (NSPA) as the project coordinator and Merko Statyba UAB. As a result, 10 buildings will be constructed to house barracks, mess-hall, vehicle repair facility, helipads, multipurpose facility, etc. The work is planned to be completed by 2026. The assessed worth of the contract is over EUR 110 million.

"We are developing infrastructure to ensure proper deployment conditions for Allied forces in Lithuania as a means to strengthen deterrence and defence. It is one of our top priorities in ensuring security in the country and the region,” says Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas.

Completion of the project will make the Pabradė Training Area capable of hosting up to 3 thousand military personnel and one of the most developed military ranges in the Baltics. It will ensure good conditions for training activities and resting, as well as logistical and technical support.

It is just one of the several Lithuanian Armed Forces modernisation projects the Ministry of National Defence is implementing with coordination by the NATO Support and Procurement Agency.

 

CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT ADMITS SANCTIONS ARE VIOLATED IN ISOLATED CASES

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – Head of the Customs Department Darius Žvironas admits that it is impossible to prevent all attempts of circumvention of the European Union’s sanctions on Russia and Belarus.

"This is a constant process. We cannot promise that we will immediately prevent all possible attempts as new schemes emerge constantly, new ways to try to evade sanctions,” said Žvironas.

According to the head of the Customs Department, last autumn attempts were made to import pellets for heating despite sanctions. Whereas now, with spring approaching, it may be sought to transport fertilisers from Belarus to Lithuania. Therefore, risk management mechanisms are always updated to prevent the evasion of sanctions.

Žvironas says from 500 to 1,000 vehicles enter Lithuania each day and from 20 to 30 of them are stopped from entering or exiting the country. However, he admitted that in isolated cases sometimes it might be possible to evade sanctions.

On Monday, investigative journalism centre Siena reported how Belarusian fertilisers are imported to Lithuania despite sanctions. Fertilisers produced by Belarusian factory Grodno Azot are transported to Lithuania by both semi-trailers and trains although the EU imposed sanctions on the company at the end of 2021.

However, the head of the Customs Department noted that last year there were 27,000 cases when sanctioned goods were stopped from being moved from Russia and Belarus to Lithuania and vice versa.

Commenting about the journalistic investigation, he said the case was known to the Customs Department as in early February several railway wagons were stopped on their way to Klaipėda seaport and fertiliser samples were taken during Customs control procedures.

Moreover, due to attempts to circumvent sanctions, the Customs Department will submit to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs amendments to existing regulations.

Meanwhile, Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis questioned why the media reported about sanction evasion instead of special services alerting the authorities about this. He added that the Customs Department is responsible for overseeing which shipments are allowed to cross the border.

EU sanctions apply not only on Grodno Azot but also on Birių krovinių terminalas (Bulk Cargo Terminal, BKT), a company operating in Klaipėda seaport whose 30% of shares are owned by the Belarusian state company Belaruskalij. BKT did not deny that Belarusian carbamide had been imported but refused to go into detail citing commercial secrets.

Both Lithuanian Railways and the Ministry of Transport and Communications addressed prosecutors last week to determine the origin of the shipment of carbamide for BKT.

Lithuanian Railways said it detained 15 railway wagons with around 50 tonnes of Belarusian fertilisers worth EUR 327,000 that were attempted to be imported in violation of sanctions.

The freight in question was transported from Belarus to Lithuania on 10 February through Stasylos railway station, which was closed on 16 February in a strive to stop the smuggling of Belarusian goods until an x-ray machine is installed there.

 

LITHUANIAN LASER LABORATORY TO BE ESTABLISHED IN TAIWAN

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian Laser Association (LLA) has signed an agreement with the Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) on creation of the joint laser technology research and innovation centre in Taiwan.

The Ministry of the Economy and Innovation stated on Tuesday that the centre would be opened in autumn of 2023.

"Bilateral economic ties with Taiwan are developed consistently and 2023 should be a breakthrough year. We are seeking to accelerate bilateral cooperation of technology companies, to take better advantage of Lithuania’s information, communications and financial technologies so that as many as possible Taiwanese technology companies would start setting up shop and investing in Lithuania,” says Deputy Minister of the Economy and Innovation Karolis Žemaitis.

President of the Lithuania Laser Association (LLA) Gediminas Račiukaitis believes that the new centre will help Lithuanian laser companies to access semiconductor and electronics industry supply chains.

Moreover, the Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Taiwanese National Association of Industry and Commerce (CNAIC) and on Friday will sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the National Federation of Industries (CNFI).

The agreements foresee sharing information about business interests of Taiwanese and Lithuanian companies, potential partnerships, visits for business cooperation, facilitate participation in trade or investment projects in Lithuania, Taiwan or third countries, as well as sharing information striving to create favourable trade and investment environment in Lithuania and Taiwan.

In 2022, Lithuania’s trade with Taiwan soared by more than 50% and exceeded EUR 167 million.

 

LITHUANIAN RAILWAYS CONTINUES USING RUSSIAN-MADE LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY SYSTEM – MEDIA

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – News website Lrytas has reported that state-owned enterprise Lithuanian Railways (LTG) launched a EUR 2.2 million tender for the procurement of maintenance services for the KLUB-U train control system.

Based on the article, the Russian-made KLUB-U (Unified Integrated Train Protection System) already attracted the attention of the Lithuanian Parliament’s Committee on National Security and Defence five years ago. Legislators concluded after a probe that the system is incompatible with Lithuania’s national security interests and had to be replaced by equipment of reliable manufacturers.

According to Lrytas, the decision to announce the tender for electronic map creation and installation services may be perceived as indirect support for Russia’s military industrial complex at the time when Russia is at war with Ukraine.

Meanwhile, LTG argues that KLUB-U system is still being used and requires technical maintenance to meet the requirements and ensure safe train traffic.

The company claims it plans to switch to a new system by 2026-2027 depending on financial capabilities of LTG group of companies.

 

BORDER GUARD SERVICE REPORTS ZERO ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSINGS

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) says that no illegal border crossing attempts have been observed in Lithuania for a fourth consecutive day.

Latvia reported it had denied entry to nine foreign nationals trying to cross into the country illegally from Belarus on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, Polish border guards pushed back 95 illegal migrants on Monday.

According to the VSAT, this year, by 21 February, 357 migrants tried to access Lithuania from Belarus illegally.

Since 3 August 2021, when the VSAT was instructed to turn away illegal migrants attempting to cross the state border at unauthorised locations, more than 19 thousand migrants have been denied entry from Belarus to Lithuania.

 

PORT OF KLAIPĖDA HANDLES 2.77MN TONNES OF CARGO IN JANUARY 2023

 

Klaipėda, February 21 (ELTA) – The Port of Klaipėda handled 2.77 million tonnes of cargo in January 2023, a decrease of 27% or 1 million tonnes compared with January 2022, when 3.8 million tonnes of cargo were handled.

Handling of liquid cargo (petroleum products, liquefied natural gas, oils etc.) increased by 28%, from 571,000 tonnes in January 2022 to 734,000 tonnes in January 2023.

Cargo handling results were mostly affected by a 55% decrease in bulk cargo as a result of sanctions on various products. Bulk cargo handling decreased from 1.99 million tonnes in January 2022 to 0.9 million tonnes in January 2023. This segment consists mostly of fertilisers, raw sugar and peat.

General cargo handling (containers, timber, iron and steel products, metal constructions, frozen and ro-ro cargoes) decreased by 8% in a year, from 1.23 million tonnes in January 2022 to 1.13 million tonnes in January 2023.

In January 2023, the Port of Klaipėda ranked fourth in terms of cargo handling among other nearby ports on the eastern shore of the Baltic Sea.

 

NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION DOWN BY 48% IN LITHUANIA – EUROSTAT

 

Luxembourg, February 21 (ELTA) – The EU consumption of natural gas has dropped by 19.3% in the period August 2022-January 2023, compared with the average gas consumption for the same months (August-January) between 2017 and 2022.

This information comes from energy data published by Eurostat and transmitted by the National Statistical Institutes of the Member States.

The Council Regulation (EU) 2022/1369 on coordinated demand-reduction measures for gas, part of the REPowerEU plan to end EU dependence on Russian fossil fuels, set a reduction target of 15% for the period August 2022-March 2023 as compared to the average of the same period of the five previous consecutive years.

Between August 2022 and January 2023, among EU countries, Ireland (-0.3%) registered the smallest decrease in natural gas consumption in the reference period, while Spain (-13.7%) and Slovenia (-14.2%) recorded a significant drop but have not yet reached the 15% target. In other EU members, consumption dropped beyond the 15% target, in some, by a large margin (above 40%).

Consumption fell the most in Finland (-57.3%), Lithuania (-47.9%) and Sweden (-40.2%).

 

NEO FINANCE POSTS EUR 3.5MN REVENUE IN 2022

 

Vilnius, February 21 (ELTA) – NEO Finance AB has published the interim report and unaudited financial statements for the 12 months of 2022. Q4 2022 was a successful quarter for NEO Finance on all indicators, the company said in a press release.

In Q4 2022, compared to Q4 2021, the amount of loans granted grew by 55% and revenue by 11%. The company’s profitability indicators, EBITDA and profit before tax, grew respectively: EBITDA from a negative amount of EUR -12,291 to EUR 162,817 and profit from a negative amount of EUR -79,076 to EUR 75,951. As the recognition of the company’s income is delayed compared to the period of the loans granted, the rapid growth of the loan volumes allows for a faster growth of income in the future. Revenue related to the issuance and management of electronic money grew by 23% in the quarter compared to the same quarter in 2021. Q4 growth outpaced that of 2022 as a whole. This was mainly driven by increased volumes of payment initiation services.

According to unaudited data, company’s revenue in 2022 was EUR 3,530,460 and increased by 3% compared to 2021. Cost of sales decreased by 7%, from EUR 1,769,674 in 2021 to EUR 1,650,676 while operating costs increased from EUR 1,250,886 to EUR 1,721,176 in 2022 resulting in 38% increase. EBITDA increased by 9.5% from EUR 422,522 to EUR 462,603 and profit before taxes for 2022 was EUR 158,608 while pre-tax profit in 2021 was EUR 179,054. Net profit for the reporting period has decreased by 12 % from EUR 117,739 in 2021 to EUR 103,895 in 2022.

After the end of the reporting period, 9 February 2023, NEO Finance AB was awarded the prize for the best performance in capital market development in Lithuania at Nasdaq Baltic Awards 2023. This is a significant recognition, which shows that the company played an important role in the local capital market in 2022 by consistently developing investment products and by striving to provide investors with the most complete and transparent information possible.

In order to implement the company’s strategy, the focus will continue to be on growing both Neopay’s business and lending platforms: Paskolų klubas and Finomark. The company has focused a significant part of its human and financial resources on product development and expansion, as well as on increasing business volumes, and it is expected to see faster revenue growth in 2023 than in 2022.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Wednesday, February 22

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to attend the Bucharest Nine summit with US President Joe Biden and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg (Warsaw, Poland).

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to give an interview to the radio station Žinių radijas (8:00);

-- -- to attend a meeting of the Board of the Seimas (9:00);

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (10:00);

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (15:00).

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to chair a sitting of the Government (13:00).

MINISTRIES

-- Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis to pay a working visit to the United Kingdom;

-- Minister of the Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė to participate in the Women Go Tech press conference (10:00);

-- Minister of Agriculture Kęstutis Navickas to visit the United Arab Emirates.

-- END.

 

 

 

ESTONIAN ELECTION DEBATE ON SPORTS: AGGRESSOR COUNTRIES MUST NOT BE AT OLYMPICS

 

Tallinn, February 21 (ELTA) – Ahead of the upcoming Riigikogu elections, the Estonian Olympic Committee (EOK) held a debate on issues related to sports, with representatives of Estonia’s political parties presenting their respective positions, reports public broadcaster ERR.

However, the issue of Russian and Belarusian athletes’ potential participation in the 2024 Paris Summer Olympics and how Estonia should act if they are allowed to take part, was impossible to avoid.

Kristina Kallas (Eesti 200), Heino Märks (EKRE), Marko Kaljuveer (Isamaa), Mihhail Kõlvart (Center), Jüri Jaanson (Reform) and current Minister of Culture Piret Hartman (SDE) all took part in the debate.

In recent weeks, there has been a great deal of talk about the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) recent statement, that Russian and Belarusian athletes should gradually be allowed back to compete in international sporting events. Some have suggested that to do so, they would have to compete as "neutral” athletes, unable to use their national flags or anthems.

Estonian culture min signs joint statement on Russian athletes ban – ERR

Tallinn, February 21 (ELTA) – Estonian Minister of Culture Piret Hartman signed a joint statement by sports ministers and senior officials from 34 countries, stressing that there is no practical reason to consider allowing the full return of Russian and Belarusian athletes to international sporting competition, reports Estonia’s public broadcaster ERR.

The joint statement emphasises, that Russia’s aggression in Ukraine continues and that the situation has only worsened since February 2022. The ministers also asserted, there solidarity with the Ukrainian athletes, "whose facilities have been destroyed and who have had to leave their country (or stay to fight for the defence of Ukraine in which very many have lost their lives).” As a result, the statement continues, "there is no practical reason to move away from the exclusion regime for Russian and Belarusian athletes set by the IOC in their statement of 28 February 2022.”

The ministers also pointed out, that, "through their choices, action and ongoing invasion Russia broke the Olympic Truce that has been continuously supported by the United Nations General Assembly since 1993.”

 

IT IS VITAL FOR EU ENERGY MARKET REFORM TO ACT AS STIMULUS TO INVESTMENT INTO RENEWABLE RESOURCES – LATVIAN FORMIN

 

Riga, February 21 (ELTA) – On 21 February, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Latvia Edgars Rinkēvičs took part in the meeting of the General Affairs Council of the European Union in Brussels, which featured an exchange of views on an annotated draft agenda of the European Council on 23-24 March, including the topics related to Ukraine and Russia, economy and energy.

Edgars Rinkēvičs voiced his support for the agenda of the European Council to be held in March, reports the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia.

In a discussion on energy and the next winter period, the minister drew attention to the need to take stock of progress in the EU’s energy sector. Regardless of this year’s warm winter, vigilance needs to be maintained and attention paid to the situation in preparation for the next heating season. Therefore, any further work must be preceded by a systematic and broad assessment of a possible electricity market reform. It is also important for the reform of the EU electricity market to provide an incentive for investment in renewable energy.

The long-term competitiveness and productivity of the EU economy were also discussed. The minister expressed the opinion that an open and ambitious trade policy was an essential pillar in enhancing the EU’s competitiveness.

 

AIRBALTIC INTRODUCES REVOLUT PAYMENT OPTION

 

Riga, February 21 (ELTA) – The Latvian airline airBaltic announces a new convenient and secure addition to its online payment options – Revolut bank transfer – the company said in a press release.

Starting with February, it is available on the homepage www.airbaltic.com[http://www.airbaltic.com] for passengers, who have chosen to make payments from their bank account via Klix service app, provided by Citadele bank.

Jolanta Rema, vice president e-commerce and commercial distribution of airBaltic said, "We are committed to offer passengers an excellent service, which also means – payment options tailored to customer needs, when purchasing flight tickets. Similar to airBaltic, Citadele is a company of innovations, thus we are happy to extend our partnership, and approach passengers with an even wider range of payment solutions, as well as improved user experience.”

Vladislavs Mironovs, Citadele member of the Management Board, chief strategy officer comments, "Klix solution gives travellers more freedom to pay online. Planning travels is one of the most important parts before highly anticipated trip and Klix together with the customer journey of airBaltic makes it seamless.”

Over 25 million customers are using the Revolut digital bank globally, of whom more than 160,000 in Latvia.

airBaltic provides flights to more than 70 destinations from Riga, Tallinn, Vilnius and Tampere, offering connections to a wide range of destinations in the airline’s route network in Europe, Scandinavia, the CIS and the Middle East.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230222ej2m000gp


Court of Justice of the European Union Judgment: Statul Român – Ministerul Finanţelor Publice (C-397/19)
19160 字
2023 年 2 月 22 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Luxembourg: Court of Justice of the European Union has issued the following Judgment:

OPINION OF ADVOCATE GENERAL BOBEK

delivered on 23 September 2020(1)

Case C‑397/19

Statul Român ‑ Ministerul Finanţelor Publice

(Request for a preliminary ruling from the Tribunalul Bucureşti (Regional Court, Bucharest, Romania))

(Reference for a preliminary ruling -Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union - Commission Decision 2006/928/EC establishing a Mechanism for Cooperation and Verification (MCV) - Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union - Second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU ‑ Rule of law - Judicial independence - State liability - Civil liability of members of the judiciary for judicial error)

I. Introduction

1. The applicant in the main proceedings was sentenced for a criminal offence at first instance but was subsequently acquitted by the appellate court. He now seeks compensation before the referring court, a civil jurisdiction, from the Romanian State, for the damages allegedly sustained because of his criminal conviction, including his pre-trial detention.

2. In this context, the referring court questions the compatibility of several aspects of the definition and procedure of State liability for judicial error in Romania, as recently amended, with the requirements of the rule of law. The present case concerns an action for State liability against the Romanian State. However, the referring court also expresses doubts with regard to the national provisions that govern any subsequent stage: if the State were indeed obliged to pay damages, then it is possible that an action for recovery would be brought by the State against the magistrate (judge or prosecutor). In such a scenario, the Ministerul Finanţelor Publice (Ministry of Public Finances, Romania) would go before a civil court and bring an action to establish the civil liability of the judge or prosecutor who caused the error, provided that the judicial error and the damage it caused were made in bad faith or through gross negligence.

3. The present case forms part of a series of requests for preliminary rulings concerned with the amendments of different aspects of the Romanian legal system by the reform of the so-called 'Justice Laws'. In all these cases, the referring courts question the compatibility of national provisions with EU law, seeking clarification on the meaning and legal value of the 'Mechanism for Cooperation and Verification' ('the MCV') established by Commission Decision 2006/928/EC. (2) I have dealt with that transversal issue in another Opinion delivered today, in Joined Cases Asociaţia 'Forumul Judecătorilor din România', Asociaţia 'Forumul Judecătorilor din România' and Asociaţia Mişcarea Pentru Apărarea Statutului Procurorilor, and PJ, and in Cases SO and Asociaţia 'Forumul Judecătorilor din România' and Others. (3)

4. In the present Opinion, I shall therefore focus on the interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union ('the Charter') and of the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU, with regard to the national provisions concerning the State liability and the civil liability of judges for judicial error, and their compatibility with the principle of judicial independence enshrined in those provisions.

II. Legal framework

A. EU law

5. The relevant provisions of EU law are reproduced in points 5 to 12 of my Opinion in Asociaţia Forumul Judecătorilor din România and Others.

B. Romanian law

6. Article 1381 of the Codul civil (Civil Code) provides that all damage shall give rise to a right to compensation.

7. Article 539(1) of the Codul de procedură penală (Romanian Code of Criminal Procedure) provides that a person unlawfully deprived of his or her liberty is entitled to compensation. According to Article 539(2) of that code, the unlawful deprivation of liberty is to be established, as the case may be, by an order of a prosecutor, by a final order of a judge responsible for matters relating to rights and freedoms or of a judge conducting the preliminary hearing, or by the final order or judgment of the court hearing the case.

8. Article 541 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that:

'1. An action for damages may be brought by the person entitled to do so under Articles 538 and 539, and, after the death of that person, such an action may be pursued or brought by persons who were dependants of the deceased at the time of his or her death.

2. The action may be brought within 6 months of the date on which the decision of the court, order of the prosecutor or order of the judicial authorities establishing the judicial error or the unlawful deprivation of liberty has become final.

3. In order to obtain compensation for the harm suffered, the person entitled to that compensation may bring a civil action against the State before the Tribunalul (Regional Court) of the judicial district where that person is resident; the claim shall be served on the State through the Ministry of Public Finances.

…'

9. The regime of civil liability of judges initially provided in Legea nr. 303/2004 privind statutul judecătorilor și procurorilor (Law No 303/2004 on the rules governing the status of judges and prosecutors), was amended by Legea nr. 242/2018 pentru modificarea și completarea Legii nr. 303/2004 privind statutul judecătorilor și procurorilor (Law No 242/2018 on the amendment and completion of Law No 303/2004 on the status of judges and prosecutors). (4)

10. Article 96 of Law No 303/2004, as amended by Law No 242/2018, provides as follows:

'1. The State shall make good using its own resources any damage resulting from judicial errors.

2. The liability of the State shall be established in accordance with the law and shall not exclude the liability of judges and prosecutors who, even if they are no longer in office, have performed their duties in bad faith or with gross negligence for the purposes of Article 991.

3. A judicial error exists where:

(a) in the course of legal proceedings, a procedural act has been performed in clear breach of provisions of substantive or procedural law, entailing a serious infringement of the rights, freedoms or legitimate interests of an individual and causing harm that it has not been possible to remedy by means of an ordinary or extraordinary appeal;

(b) a final judgment has been delivered that is manifestly contrary to the law or inconsistent with the factual situation established by the evidence taken in the course of the proceedings, entailing a serious infringement of the rights, freedoms or legitimate interests of an individual, that it has not been possible to remedy by means of an ordinary or extraordinary appeal.

4. Specific cases in which a judicial error exists may be covered by the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Criminal Procedure, or other special laws.

5. In order to obtain compensation for the damage caused, the injured party may take action exclusively against the State, represented by the Ministry of Public Finances. Jurisdiction to hear the civil action shall lie with the court in whose area of jurisdiction the applicant is domiciled.

6. The State shall pay any sums due by way of compensation within one year, at the latest, of the date of notification of the final judgment.

7. Within two months of notification of the final judgment delivered in the action referred to in paragraph 6, the Ministry of Public Finances shall refer the matter to the Judicial Inspection, so that it may ascertain whether the judicial error was caused by a judge or prosecutor as a result of his performing his duties in bad faith or with gross negligence, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 741 of Law No 317/2004, republished, as amended.

8. The State, represented by the Ministry of Public Finances, shall bring an action for redress against the relevant judge or prosecutor where, following the advisory report of the Judicial Inspection referred to in paragraph 7 and its own assessment, it considers that the judicial error was caused by the judge's or prosecutor's performance of his duties in bad faith or with gross negligence. The action for redress shall be brought within six months of the date of notification of the report of the Judicial Inspection.

9. The Civil Division of the Curtea de Apel (Court of Appeal) of the judicial district where the defendant is resident shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine at first instance the action for redress. If the judge or prosecutor against whom that action is brought carries out his or her duties in that Court of Appeal or in the prosecutor's office attached to that Court of Appeal, the action for redress shall be brought before a neighbouring Court of Appeal to be selected by the applicant.

10. The decision delivered in the proceedings described in paragraph 9 may be appealed before the competent division of the Înalta Curte de Casație şi Justiție (High Court of Cassation and Justice, Romania).

11. The Superior Council of Magistracy shall establish, within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, the conditions, terms and procedures pertaining to the compulsory professional insurance of judges and prosecutors. The insurance shall be paid for entirely by the judge or prosecutor and its absence shall not delay, diminish or exclude the civil liability of a judge or prosecutor for any judicial error caused by the performance of his duties in bad faith or with gross negligence.'

11. Finally, Article 991 of Law No 303/2004, as amended, defines bad faith and gross negligence in the following terms:

'(1) A judge or prosecutor shall be deemed to have acted in bad faith if he or she knowingly infringes rules of substantive or procedural law and either has the intention of harming another person or accepts that the infringement will cause harm to another person.

(2) A judge or prosecutor commits gross negligence if he or she negligently disregards rules of substantive or procedural law in a manner that is serious, irrefutable and inexcusable.'

III. Facts, national proceedings and the questions referred

12. In the period between 21 January 2015 and 21 October 2015, the applicant was arrested, placed in pre-trial detention, and subsequently placed under house arrest. Those measures were ordered and then extended by the First Criminal Division of the Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest, Romania), and later upheld by the Curtea de Apel București (Court of Appeal, Bucharest, Romania).

13. By judgment of 13 June 2017, the Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest), sentenced the applicant to a suspended term of imprisonment of four years for the offence of continuous tax evasion. The applicant was also ordered to pay damages to the civil party.

14. On appeal, the Curtea de Apel București (Court of Appeal, Bucharest) acquitted the applicant, finding that he had not committed the offence for which he had been convicted at first instance. The referring court explains that that judgment did not contain any statement relating to the legality of the preventive measures taken against the applicant.

15. By application lodged on 3 January 2019 at the Third Civil Division of the Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest), the applicant brought an action against the Romanian State, represented by the Ministerul Finanţelor Publice (Ministry of Public Finances, Romania) ('the defendant'), seeking an order requiring the defendant to pay EUR 50 000 in material damages and EUR 1 000 000 in non-material damages. The applicant submits that he has been the victim of an error on the part of the First Criminal Division of the Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest), consisting in unjust conviction, the deprivation of liberty and the unlawful restriction of his freedom during the criminal proceedings.

16. The Ministry of Public Finances, acting on behalf of the State, submitted, inter alia, that the application is inadmissible, and, in any case, unfounded, since the conditions for establishing the civil liability of the State are not satisfied. The applicant failed to demonstrate that the preventive measures and the measures restricting his freedom were unlawful.

17. In those circumstances, the Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest) decided to stay proceedings and refer the following questions to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling:

'(1) Is the [MCV], established by [the MCV Decision], to be regarded as an act of an institution of the European Union, within the meaning of Article 267 TFEU, and therefore amenable to interpretation by [the Court]?

(2) Does the [MCV], established by [the MCV Decision], constitute an integral part of the [Treaty of Accession], and must it be interpreted and applied in the light of the provisions of that treaty? Are the requirements set out in the reports drawn up in the context of that mechanism binding on Romania and, if so, is a national court which is responsible for applying, within its sphere of jurisdiction, provisions of EU law required to ensure the application of those rules, where necessary refusing, of its own motion, to apply provisions of national legislation that are contrary to the requirements set out in the reports drawn up pursuant to that mechanism?

(3) Is Article 2 [TEU], read in conjunction with Article 4(3) thereof, to be interpreted as meaning that the obligation on Romania to comply with the requirements laid down in the reports drawn up pursuant to the [MCV], established by [the MCV Decision], forms part of the Member State's obligation to observe the principles of the rule of law?

(4) Does Article 2 [TEU], read in conjunction with Article 4(3) thereof, and in particular the obligation to observe the values of the rule of law, preclude a provision of national legislation, such as Article 96(3)(a) of Law No 303/2004 on the rules governing judges and prosecutors, which defines, succinctly and in the abstract, a "judicial error" as the performance of a procedural act in clear breach of provisions of substantive or procedural law, without specifying the nature of the provisions infringed, the scope of application of those provisions, ratione materiae and ratione temporis, in the proceedings, the methods, time limits and procedures for establishing infringement of legal provisions, or the authority competent to establish infringement of those legal provisions, and thus creates a risk of pressure being indirectly exerted on the judiciary?

(5) Does Article 2 [TEU], read in conjunction with Article 4(3) thereof, and in particular the obligation to observe the values of the rule of law, preclude a provision of national legislation, such as Article 96(3)(b) of Law No 303/2004 on the rules governing judges and prosecutors, which defines a "judicial error" as the delivery of a final judgment that is manifestly contrary to the law or inconsistent with the factual situation established by the evidence taken in the course of the proceedings, without defining the procedure for establishing inconsistency and without defining in specific terms what is meant by that inconsistency of the judgment vis-à-vis the applicable legal provisions or the factual situation, and thus creates a risk that the interpretation of the law and the evidence by the judiciary (judges and prosecutors) will be hindered?

(6) Does Article 2 [TEU], read in conjunction with Article 4(3) thereof, and in particular the obligation to observe the values of the rule of law, preclude a provision of national legislation, such as Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004 on the rules governing judges and prosecutors, pursuant to which the civil liability of a member of the judiciary (a judge or prosecutor) vis-à-vis the State is established solely on the basis of the State's own assessment, and, where appropriate, the advisory report of the [Judicial Inspection], regarding the question of the intention or gross negligence of the judge or prosecutor in the commission of the material error, without that judge or prosecutor having the opportunity fully to exercise his rights of defence, and which thus creates the risk of the procedure for establishing the liability of the judge or prosecutor vis-à-vis the State being commenced and completed arbitrarily?

(7) Does Article 2 [TEU], and in particular the obligation to observe the values of the rule of law, preclude a provision of national legislation, such as the last sentence of Article 539(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, read together with Article 541(2) and (3) thereof, whereby a defendant who has been acquitted on the merits, implicitly and sine die, is provided with an extraordinary sui generis means of appeal against a final judgment on the lawfulness of pre-trial detention, an appeal which is to be heard solely by a civil court, in the event that the unlawfulness of the pre-trial detention has not been established by a decision of a criminal court, in breach of the principle that legal provisions must be predictable and accessible, the principle of the specialisation of judges and the principle of legal certainty?'

18. The application of the expedited procedure was requested by the referring court in the order for reference. It was rejected by decision of the President of the Court of 26 June 2019. Priority treatment was accorded by decision of the President of the Court of 19 September 2019.

19. Written observations were submitted by the Polish and Romanian Governments, and by the European Commission. A joint hearing with Cases C‑83/19, C‑127/19 and C‑195/19, Asociaţia 'Forumul Judecătorilor din România' and Others; C‑291/19, SO and C‑355/19, Asociaţia 'Forumul Judecătorilor din România' and Others was held on 20 and 21 January 2020, in which the following interested parties presented oral argument: the Asociația 'Forumul Judecătorilor din România' ('Association of Judges Forum'), the Asociația 'Mișcarea pentru Apărarea Statutului Procurorilor' (the Association 'Movement for the Defence of the Status of Prosecutors'), the Superior Council of Magistracy (SCM), OL, the Parchetul de pe lângă Înalta Curte de Casaţie şi Justiţie - Procurorul General al României (the 'Prosecutor General'), the Governments of Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, Romania and Sweden, and the Commission. The Governments of the Netherlands and Romania, as well as the Commission, have presented oral argument specifically in relation to the present case.

IV. Analysis

20. I have suggested an answer to the first, second and third questions of the referring court in points 120 to 172 of my parallel Opinion delivered today in Asociaţia Forumul Judecătorilor din România and Others, to which I cannot but refer. For that reason, I shall deal with neither the admissibility, nor the merits of the first, second and third questions in the present Opinion. In what follows, I shall focus on questions four to seven, that is to say the issues of State liability and the civil liability of judges.

21. What might be added specifically with regard to the present case, is that as was the case with the national provisions at issue in Asociaţia Forumul Judecătorilor din România and Others, (5) also the present case is concerned with domestic provisions covered by the Annex to the MCV Decision. A system of State liability and the possible subsequent civil liability of judges for judicial error finds itself at the crossroad between the independence of the judges and their accountability. In that way, it can certainly be subsumed, similar to the elements addressed in my Opinion in the abovementioned cases, under the obligation to 'ensure a more transparent, and efficient judicial process …' set out in the Annex to the MCV Decision.

22. This Opinion is structured as follows. I shall start with examining admissibility and with proposing a reformulation of the questions referred (A). Turning to the merits of the case (B), I will first set out the overall context (1), before turning to what appear to be the contested elements of the system, in order to examine their compatibility primarily with the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter (2).

23. Finally, this Opinion is limited to State liability and the civil liability of judges. Although the national legislation, as well as the questions raised by the referring court, relate to the civil liability of both judges and prosecutors, the present case is, on its facts, concerned exclusively with judicial error that might be attributable to a judicial decision.

A. Admissibility of the questions referred and their reformulation

1. Admissibility

24. The Romanian Government stated in its written submissions that all the preliminary questions in the present case are inadmissible. Regarding the admissibility of questions four to six, the EU law rules invoked by the referring court — Article 2 and Article 4(3) TEU — are irrelevant in the main proceedings. Those provisions, as well as the Charter, are only relevant in so far as Member States act in application of EU law. Moreover, question six, which in reality refers to Article 96(8) of Law No 303/2004, goes beyond the object of the main proceedings. That provision relates to the action seeking to trigger the personal liability of judges, which is not at stake in the case before the referring court. Finally, question seven contains unfounded considerations and raises a question of hypothetical interpretation, which has no bearing on the adjudication on the main proceedings.

25. The Commission has also submitted that all the questions referred are inadmissible. It points out that the proceedings covered by Article 96 of Law No 303/2004 are composed of two phases. The first concerns the liability of the State. If the State has been found liable at the first phase, the Ministry of Public Finances can bring, at the second phase, an action in order to trigger the personal liability of the judge concerned for judicial error. However, a successful action against the State does not automatically trigger proceedings against a judge. In view of those elements, the Commission submits that questions one to six are inadmissible because the provisions of EU law, the interpretation of which is requested, concern the second phase of that procedure, whereas this case deals with the first phase concerning the liability of the State. As a result, the Commission submits that the interpretation of EU law sought bears no relation to the actual facts of the main action nor to its object. Finally, the Commission has submitted that question seven is also inadmissible because the referring court has not provided the Court with the elements necessary in order for it to give a useful response.

26. The Polish Government has presented observations solely with regard to questions four to seven. According to that government, those questions are inadmissible because EU law is not applicable to the legal problems at issue in the main proceedings. The interpretation of the provisions of EU law sought by the referring court is not necessary for the purposes of adjudicating on the case. The questions have been referred in a case that is purely internal in nature and relates to national provisions adopted by a Member State in the field of its exclusive competence. In the main proceedings, the applicant is not seeking damages in connection with an infringement of EU law. EU law does not impose any obligations with regard to proceedings seeking damages for infringements of national law.

27. I understand and partially share the doubts expressed, in particular, by the Commission concerning the admissibility of question six. However, on balance, I would still suggest that the Court declare questions four, five and six admissible. By contrast, question seven is indeed inadmissible.

28. First, as noted in my Opinion in Asociaţia Forumul Judecătorilor din România and Others, (6) the arguments relating to the lack of competence of the European Union in the field of State liability for judicial error are not so much related to the admissibility of the questions, but to the jurisdiction of the Court. For the same reasons set out in that Opinion, I would suggest that the questions fall within the jurisdiction of the Court under Article 267 TFEU. (7)

29. Second, I agree that the referring court, by invoking Article 2 and Article 4(3) TEU in order to assess whether those provisions preclude the national rules at issue, has not relied on the appropriate provisions. However, if those provisions were to be substituted with the MCV Decision, applied in conjunction with the Charter and/or Article 19(1) TEU, then it can hardly be maintained that, in particular, questions four and five are not relevant for the actual case pending before the referring court.

30. Thus, contrary to what the Commission has argued, questions four and five specifically address the definition of judicial error contained in Article 96(3)(a) and (b) of Law No 303/2004 for the purposes of its application at the stage of proceedings seeking to trigger the liability of the State, which is exactly the context of the proceedings before the referring court. In those circumstances, it appears that the questions relating to the implications of the EU principle of judicial independence for the assessment of a regime of State liability for judicial errors indeed concern the merits of the case.

31. Admittedly, the situation is different with regard to question six. That question, although citing Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004, is in reality concerned with the (subsequent) civil liability of members of the judiciary, governed by Article 96(7) to (10) of that law. In this way indeed, the suggestion that the Ministry of Public Finances could, perhaps one day, in the event that the action for State liability currently pending were to be successful in the first place, bring a recovery action against the judge who allegedly committed the judicial error remains, in the proceedings currently pending before the referring court, at the level of a mere hypothesis.

32. Moreover, in view of a recent decision of the Court in Miasto Łowicz, it could also be suggested that the answer to question six is, in the context of the present proceedings, not necessary to enable the referring court to give judgment. (8) Indeed, reasoning a fortiori, if the fact that a number of judges are being subjected to disciplinary proceedings, and the actual judges who submitted the specific requests for a preliminary ruling in the cases at hand are the object of what appear to be preliminary disciplinary investigations, (9) is not enough to bring such a case over the admissibility finishing line, it would indeed be difficult to see how question six could ever cross that line.

33. However, I understand the statement of the Court made in Miasto Łowicz as an expression of the problem of the disconnection between the extremely broad questions referred and the specific cases within which the issues were raised. It is indeed impossible for any court, including this Court, to carry out an in abstracto analysis of an alleged political abuse of disciplinary proceedings with very little information. The Court is not an international advisory body that is free to comment on a political situation and recommend best practices. The Court can rule on the infringement of specific rules or principles. However, in order for that to happen, specific arguments, not to say evidence, must be submitted. That is the case, in particular, in a situation where what is in essence suggested is that certain rules or practices operate differently from what is stated on paper. (10)

34. Thus, I would not read Miasto Łowicz as banning what might perhaps best be called 'judicial self-defence', that is to say a situation in which a judge, seised by a certain case on merits firmly within the scope of EU law in the traditional sense, raises broader structural issues relating to the national procedures or institutions, considering that they might raise issues in terms of his or her judicial independence. (11) That would indeed be a rather radical departure from the practice of this Court, which has always been rather lenient in accepting such general issues stretching beyond the confines of the specific case as being admissible, traditionally invoking the presumption of relevance of questions posed by its Member States' interlocutors. (12)

35. With those clarifications in mind, I would suggest declaring question six of the referring court admissible, essentially for three reasons.

36. First, there is an intrinsic connection. The first phase, concerning the proceedings against the State — including the definition of judicial error — is the gateway and condition sine qua non to the second phase, involving the possible personal responsibility of the judge. Moreover, it appears that the definition of judicial error contained in Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004 remains relevant for both phases of the procedure. What is then simply added in the potential second phase is the need to establish the subjective elements on the part of the judge in question, amounting either to bad faith or gross negligence pursuant to Article 991 of Law No 303/2004.

37. Second, apart from this substantive overlap as to the key concept used, the concerns expressed by the referring court seem to be motivated precisely by the connection between the proceedings for State liability and the possible subsequent action for recovery by the Ministry of Public Finances against the judge responsible for the judicial error. The 'automaticity', or the lack thereof, between a successful liability action against the State and the triggering of an action brought against the judge is, moreover, a question which has been debated between the parties and which appears to be unresolved.

38. Third, it is precisely this substantive and procedural connection between the two phases that is the key to any overall assessment of case. After all, it is primarily the possibility of an ultimate recovery action of the State against the individual judge that may be debated in terms of a potential issue concerning judicial independence. By contrast, it would not be immediately obvious, in view of the case-law of this Court on State liability (for infringements of EU law), how the structural issue of whether, in fact, the possibility exists for an individual to claim State liability for judicial errors would immediately translate into possible threats to the independence of the individual judge. (13)

39. Finally, I do, however, agree with the Commission and the Romanian Government that question seven must be declared inadmissible.

40. Question seven asks whether EU law precludes a provision such as Article 539(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure read in conjunction with Article 541(2) and (3) of that code, which, according to the referring court, allows a person who has been acquitted on merits an extraordinary and sine die means of appeal on the lawfulness of the pre-trial detention before the civil courts, with the unlawfulness of the pre-trial detention not being established by a decision of a criminal court. The referring court implies that this is in breach of the principle that legal provisions must be predictable and accessible, the principle of the specialisation of judges and the principle of legal certainty.

41. The request for a preliminary ruling does not, however, contain any explanation as to the specific reasons that led the referring court to raise that question or why it considers it to be necessary for the main proceedings. The order for reference limits itself to the citation of Article 539(2) and Article 541(2) and (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Without providing any kind of explanation or context concerning those provisions, the question referred contains an evaluative interpretation of those provisions. That interpretation is rather unclear and does not follow from the text of the relevant national provisions. That question, therefore, invites the Court to endorse a certain reading of national law (14) without providing the necessary information regarding the relevance of the provisions at issue in the framework of the main proceedings.

42. Question seven does not, therefore, meet the requirements of Article 94 of the Court's Rules of Procedure.

2. Reformulation of the questions

43. Questions four to six ask, in essence, about the interpretation of Article 2 and Article 4(3) TEU in order to assess whether those provisions preclude the national rules at issue. Whereas questions four and five concern the different elements of the definition of judicial error for the purpose of State liability proceedings, question six concerns the recovery action whereby the Ministry of Public Finances may sue before a civil court so as to trigger the civil liability of the judge who caused that error.

44. First, those questions should, in my view, be considered jointly. They concern different aspects and stages of a regime that could ultimately result in triggering the civil liability for judicial error committed by an individual judge. The latter issue is indeed the one that could, for reasons similar to those already outlined above at the stage of admissibility, (15) be considered as potentially problematic in terms of judicial independence.

45. Second, however, in order to be able to give a useful answer to those questions, I consider it necessary to reformulate them. In terms of applicable EU law, those questions have referred exclusively to Article 2 and Article 4(3) TEU. They must be understood, to my mind, as referring to the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter, possibly together with the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU.

46. The order for reference, while not including it in the text of the questions, refers broadly to Article 19(1) TEU in its reasoning. Moreover, the concerns underpinning all of the questions referred are motivated by the repercussions that State liability proceedings, if subsequently followed up by an action for recovery brought against the individual judge, may have on the independence of the judiciary. That principle is enshrined both in the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter, as well as in the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU. Thus, both of those provisions constitute the more specific legal reference, which gives therefore precise expression to the value of the rule of law, affirmed in Article 2 TEU. (16)

47. As far as the relationship between the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter and the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU is concerned in a case such as the present one, I have already explained in detail why I would consider primarily the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter, triggered and made applicable to some elements of organisation of the Romanian judicial system by the MCV Decision and the Act of Accession, to be the appropriate yardstick for assessment. (17) Those considerations are, to my mind, equally applicable to the present case. Indeed, in the specific fields covered by the MCV benchmarks, Romania is deemed to be implementing EU law, for the purposes of Article 51(1) of the Charter, and so the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter becomes applicable. (18)

48. Moreover, the questions referred concern the independence of the judiciary 'as a whole'. Thus, they clearly raise a transversal issue that will be of relevance for the independence of the courts that may be called to upon rule on the application or interpretation of EU law. (19) While again perhaps just wondering what added value in terms of legal basis or analytical sharpness the simultaneous, not to say exclusive, invocation of the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU in a case such as the present one would bring, (20) there is no denying that the present case, certainly as far as questions four and five are concerned, (21) would also be covered by that provision.

49. Against that background, it must be borne in mind that the Court has a duty to interpret all EU law provisions which national courts require in order to decide the actions pending before them, even if those provisions are not expressly indicated in the questions referred. (22)

50. I therefore suggest that the questions referred be reformulated in such a way that they ask whether the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter, and the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU, must be interpreted as meaning that they preclude national provisions relating to the proceedings for the establishment of State liability for judicial error, such as Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004, bearing in mind the terms of the definition of judicial error for the purposes of the proceedings for State liability, and the potential repercussions in the subsequent civil proceedings in which the State may file a recovery action against the judge responsible for the judicial error.

B. Merits

51. I shall start by setting out the legal, and at present the largely unknown operational, context of the national provisions at issue (1). I then turn to what appear to be the contentious elements of the new legal framework (2), namely the vagueness criticised in the definition of the constitutive elements of judicial error for the purposes of State liability (a), before turning to the alleged shortcomings in the procedural framework of the subsequent procedure for triggering the civil liability of judges (b).

1. Context

52. Three elements are of note: the overall legislative context within which the contested amendments were adopted (a), their evaluation and the problems highlighted by various international bodies and the nature of the recommendations of those bodies (b), and the absence of any practical application of the new procedure and system at national level (c).

(a) The overall legislative context

53. In 2018, Law No 242/2018 amended Article 96 of Law No 303/2004, which is the national provision to which the questions referred relate.

54. However, as the Commission and the Romanian Government have explained in their written observations, the current wording of the definition of judicial error results from the amendments to the original draft text, which was changed in response to two consecutive decisions of the Curtea Constituțională România (Constitutional Court, Romania) declaring previous drafts of the relevant provision unconstitutional. (23) The Romanian Government clarified that, in contrast to its two previous versions, this third version of the law has passed the review of constitutionality before the Curtea Constituțională (Constitutional Court). (24)

55. In addition to the abovementioned amendments to Law No 303/2004, Law No 234/2018 (25) modified Law No 317/2004 on the Consiliul Superior al Magistraturii (Superior Council of Magistracy; 'the SCM') by adding a new article — Article 741 — which regulates the procedure through which the Judicial Inspection assesses, at the request of the Ministry of Public Finances, whether the judge or prosecutor who caused the judicial error was acting in bad faith or with gross negligence. (26)

56. From the file before this Court, it appears that, prior to the 2018 amendment, the State liability for judicial error could be established, according to the provisions of Law No 303/2004, only if a final decision had previously established the criminal or disciplinary liability of the judge. (27) It was then envisaged that the State could bring a recovery action against the judge in cases of gross negligence or bad faith, without providing further specification as to the competent authority or the procedure. (28)

57. Law No 303/2004 thus introduced two important structural changes to the previous approach to the liability of judges. First, it amended the requirements for introducing actions for State liability in the case of judicial error. It is no longer necessary to have a definitive criminal or disciplinary decision establishing the judicial error before an action for State liability can be brought. The existence of a judicial error may be ascertained directly in the proceedings against the State, pursuant to the newly established criteria in Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004.

58. Second, the possibilities for the State to initiate a recovery action against the judge whose decision gave rise to the liability of the State is no longer left merely to the discretion of the State without further specification, as was apparently previously the case. A new procedure was established by Article 96(7) to (10), under which the Ministry of Public Finances is designated as the competent authority. That Ministry shall refer the matter, within two months, to the Judicial Inspection, which, in turn, must assess whether the judicial error was caused by a judge as a result of negligence or bad faith on the part of the judge in carrying out his duties. Following that advisory report and on the basis of its own assessment, the Ministry of Public Finances, if it considers that the judicial error was caused by bad faith or gross negligence, shall bring the recovery action against the judge before the civil division of the Court of Appeal of the judicial district where the defendant judge is resident (or before a neighboring appellate court, if the defendant sits on the Court of Appeal of the place where he or she resides).

59. At the hearing, the Romanian Government maintained that the aim of the amendments to Law No 303/2004 was to ensure effective judicial protection for individuals. Looking at the previous procedural set-up, one might indeed wonder whether an individual would see such a system as fair and effectively protecting his or her rights. If I understand the previous system correctly, for an individual even to be allowed to institute State liability proceedings (which is now the first phase), there needed to be, in the first place, either a criminal or a disciplinary final conviction of the judge in question. However, if that was indeed the system, then it would be rather surprising if any individuals were ever able to receive damages from the State. A prior conviction of a judge, which naturally also requires proof of subjective elements of fraud and/or gross negligence, is a very high threshold for State liability. The latter, if forming part of the overall system of liability of the State for wrongs attributable to the exercise of public power, finds itself much closer to an objective liability for a certain result. (29) Moreover, it is also quite clear that any such action (whether criminal or disciplinary), its initiation and its pursuit, is unlikely to be within the reach of any allegedly harmed individual, whose access to remedies would be made entirely dependent on the action of the State authorities.

60. In a similar vein, it also appears that the possibility for the State to bring an action for recovery against an individual had always been part of valid law. However, I suppose that, similarly to a number of other Member States, this possibility was somehow the dusty attics of national constitutional law; rarely explored and in practical terms never used. The only change appears to be that, unlike the previous system where there was the possibility for bringing such an action, but no procedure for doing so, a procedure has now been established.

(b) Its evaluation by international bodies and their recommendations

61. Without containing any specific recommendation in that regard, the Commission's reports in the framework of the MCV included the new provisions concerning the material liability of judges amongst the problematic elements of the reforms of the Justice Laws, (30) echoing the concerns of the European Commission for Democracy through Law ('the Venice Commission') and the Group of States against corruption ('the GRECO'). (31) Indeed, the provisions relating to the civil liability of judges and prosecutors introduced by Law No 242/2018 have been met with criticism by the Venice Commission, the GRECO and the Consultative Council of European Judges of the Council of Europe ('the CCJE').

62. The Venice Commission concluded that the main requirements for a satisfactory definition of judicial error were satisfied by the current wording of Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004. (32) However, it considered it problematic that the plenary assembly of the SCM is excluded from the procedure, (33) and that the main role is given to the Ministry of Public Finances. This is because the Ministry of Public Finances is an actor external to the judiciary and because there are no criteria for the 'own evaluation' upon which that Ministry is to base its decision, together with the report of the Judicial Inspection, in order to initiate the recovery action against the judge. Therefore, even while the Venice Commission states that, 'since it is the public funds of the State which are at loss, the Ministry of Public Finances may indeed be the active plaintiff', it emphasises that it should nevertheless 'not have any role in assessing the existence or causes of the judicial error'. (34)

63. The Venice Commission also noted that the exclusion of the SCM should be seen in the context of other provisions, such as the creation of the Secția pentru investigarea infracțiunilor din justiție (Section for the Investigation of Offences committed within the Judiciary) ('the SIOJ'). When taken together, the Venice Commission considered that those different elements could result in pressure being placed on judges and could undermine the independence of the judiciary. (35) The Venice Commission therefore advised that it would be preferable for the recovery action seeking to trigger the civil liability of the judge to take place only after disciplinary procedures before the SCM are concluded. (36)

64. In a first report, the GRECO recommended that the amendments affecting the liability of judges for judicial errors 'be reviewed so as to ensure sufficient clarity and predictability of the rules concerned, and to avoid that they become a threat to the independence of the judiciary'. (37) When assessing, in a follow-up report, the final wording of Article 96 of Law No 303/2004, the GRECO considered that that recommendation had not been implemented. It noted that the system of personal liability established by that provision is questionable, due to its chilling effect on the independence of judges from the executive. Recalling its position on the 'functional immunity' that members of the judiciary ought to enjoy, the GRECO stated that judicial errors should preferably be dealt with by appeal before a higher instance, or as a disciplinary matter to be handled within the judiciary. Elements of concern noted by the GRECO were that the State recovery action is mandatory; that the authorities have not put in place additional safeguards against the risk of pressure on judges; the exclusion of the SCM from this procedure and the prominent role of the Ministry of Public Finances in assessing the existence and causes of judicial error. (38)

65. Finally, in addition to the points already noted by the Venice Commission and the GRECO, the CCJE emphasised its endorsement of a full functional immunity of judges. In the view of that body, only bad faith should trigger the liability of judges for any judicial errors, rejecting gross negligence as a ground for material liability of judges due to the practical difficulties of interpretation and application of that concept. (39) The CCJE recommended that the definition of judicial error be supplemented by an unambiguous statement that judges are not liable unless bad faith or gross negligence on their part has been established by due procedure.

(c) The (practical) operation of the system?

66. I have recounted the national context and international context in quite some detail in order to highlight two important elements and to add another.

67. First, the national context: the changes to Law No 303/2004 came during what appears to be, on the whole, a rather difficult period for the Romanian judiciary. (40) However, unless a court wishes to pass a sentence by temporal association, it is always necessary to examine in detail what exactly has been changed and why. If one focuses on the detail, what appears to come to the fore is that first, there was the intention to dissociate State liability from the need for a previous conviction, be it criminal or disciplinary, of a judge. That is, in view of the different aims and purposes of both proceedings, rather understandable, especially if one believes that individuals could, at least perhaps occasionally, receive some compensation for State liability. Second, the possibility of recovery action that has always been there, but apparently previously without any procedure and thus control, was given a foreseeable, predictable framework.

68. Second, what problems are presented by such amendments? A careful study of the valuable recommendations by the various international bodies cited in the previous section shows that the recommendations contained therein are normative, prospective, and in this sense, political. In particular, the CCJE appears to have a clearly acknowledged normative vision of what the laws to be adopted by States in this area should contain. Thus, in these reports, a State is reprimanded essentially because the model it adopted does not live up to the hopes and expectations of an international body, together with an indication of the possibility of misuse.

69. This is certainly not to downplay the valuable assistance that such reports can provide for a State looking for suitable models. It is rather to point out the different type of assessment this Court is called upon to carry out, which cannot be based on ex ante advocated normative visions that the legal order of a Member State should adopt. The assessment of this Court can be based only on ex post ascertained facts or at least reasonably plausible arguments about the genuine operation and function of a system, which can then lead, to an abstract but still clearly substantiated, statement of legal incompatibility based on the infringement of a legal obligation.

70. However, it is precisely in terms of providing specific details about what exactly is wrong with such a model of State liability, potentially followed up by an action for recovery brought against an individual judge, that the cited reports of the international bodies are remarkably thin. Rather what emerges is perhaps best captured by the CCJE's recommendation, stating essentially that any model which does not embrace the full 'functional immunity' of the members of the judiciary is problematic. That is indeed a clearly stated normative vision on where the balance between independence and accountability should lie. (41) However, it is in itself hardly evidence showing exactly how a model, such as the one in the Member State at issue, provided that indeed the default principle of national procedural and institutional autonomy is not to turn into an empty incantation, is incompatible with the requirements of judicial independence.

71. Third and last, it is also important to note that, as confirmed by the Romanian Government at the hearing, there has so far been no application of the contested national provisions in practice. I understand that there are as yet no instances of cases that have advanced into the second phase, where after an individual has successfully received compensation from the State for State liability, an action for recovery against an individual judge would be initiated by the Ministry of Public Finances, following a report from the Judicial Inspection.

72. For a system established in 2018, that is understandable. This has, however, two further consequences. On the one hand, for the substantive assessment that will be carried out in the following section, a number of elements of the system remain at the level of conjecture, since there is no practical application.

73. On the other hand, in structural terms, this fact limits the type of compatibility review that can be carried out in the present case. This leaves the Court to look at the blueprint only - a model as stated on paper. As I suggested in my parallel Opinion, (42) when carrying out what effectively amounts to an abstract review of compatibility, a court can carry out three types of assessment: (i) blueprint or 'paper only', (ii) papers combined or paper as applied, correcting the understanding of certain elements of the abstract model when combined with other problematic provisions in the Member States' legal order or when nuanced by the application practice, or finally (iii) practice only.

74. In view of the absence of (iii) and the very limited information on (ii), the assessment to which I now turn can only consist of (i), with a limited foray into (ii) if possible elements of the blueprint are combined with other elements of national rules or procedure. However, the fact remains that, with no application practice or arguments relating to it, including in the order for reference of the national court in this case, there is essentially no tangible context that could rebut the functioning of the model as stated 'on paper'.

2. Assessment

75. Aside from the statement of principle that there has to be State liability for damages caused to individuals by judicial infringements of EU law, and the effective harmonisation of conditions for that liability, (43) EU law does not contain any further rules regarding either State liability for judicial errors in general or the civil liability of judges.

76. The point of departure is, therefore, the principle of procedural autonomy of the Member States and the fact that the organisation of their justice systems, including the rules governing liability for judicial error, falls within their competence. This does not, however, exclude that Member States are required to comply with their obligations flowing from EU law, in particular, those arising from the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter (when they are acting within its scope) and, in any case, from the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU. (44)

77. Bearing those considerations in mind, I will first address the problems posed by the definition of judicial error in proceedings for State liability (a). I will then consider the consequences of establishing such judicial error for any subsequent procedure whereby the State, represented by the Ministry of Public Finances, can initiate a civil liability action against the individual judge in cases of bad faith or gross negligence (b).

(a) The definition of judicial error for the purposes of State liability

78. Article 96 of Law No 303/2004, as amended, establishes as a point of departure in its paragraph 1, the principle of State liability for judicial error. It continues by stating in paragraph 2, that the liability of the State does not exclude the (subsequent) liability of judges who have performed their duties in bad faith or with gross negligence, even if they are no longer in office. According to paragraph 5 of that provision, injured parties must take action exclusively against the State, represented by the Ministry of Public Finances.

79. Furthermore, paragraph 3 of Article 96 of Law No 303/2004 defines the judicial error which can be committed in two different situations: (a) regarding procedural acts adopted in the course of legal proceedings, and (b) when delivering a final judgment. In both situations, the judicial error is characterised by three elements: (i) the procedural act has been performed in clear breach of provisions of substantive or procedural law, or the final judgment is manifestly contrary to the law or inconsistent with the factual situation established by the evidence taken in the course of the proceedings; (ii) such procedural act or final judgment entails a serious infringement of the rights, freedoms or legitimate interests of an individual; and (iii) it causes harm that it has not been possible to remedy by means of an ordinary or extraordinary appeal.

80. It appears from that definition that State liability for judicial error is accepted not only as a result of procedural acts, but also because of the content of final judicial decisions including the interpretation of the law and the assessment of evidence. Moreover, as the Romanian Government explained in its written observations referring to the case-law of the Curtea Constituțională (Constitutional Court), the regime of State liability can be qualified as 'direct and objective', not dependent on the behaviour (subjective elements) of the judge (bad faith or gross negligence).

81. It is in this context, and within the first phase pertaining to State liability, that the referring court questions the compatibility of the definition of 'judicial error' set out above with EU law. Even though the order for reference does not offer any grounds explaining the doubts of the referring court in this regard, it follows from the wording of the fourth question that the referring court considers that the definition provided for by Article 96(3)(a) of Law No 303/2004 is too succinct and abstract. In particular, the referring court states, in that question, that that provision does not specify the nature or scope of the provisions infringed giving rise to such error and that it does not establish the methods, time limits and procedures for establishing the infringement of legal provisions, nor the actual authority competent to establish such infringement. For the referring court, this creates a risk of indirect pressure on the judiciary.

82. With regard to Article 96(3)(b) of Law No 303/2004, the concerns of the referring court, conveyed in the text of the fifth question, follow from the fact that that provision does not define in specific terms what is meant by the reference to 'inconsistency' vis-à-vis the applicable legal provisions or the factual situation. In the view of the referring court, this creates a risk that the interpretation of the law and evidence by the judiciary will be hindered.

83. I agree with the view expressed by the Commission at the hearing that the definition mentioned above does not appear to be as such problematic. Considered in and of itself, I fail to see how such a definition of judicial error would be liable to create a risk of indirect pressure on the judiciary. If a potential issue could be detected from the abstract definition of judicial error framed in this (rather narrow) way for the purpose of State liability, it would rather be the opposite to the one implied by the referring court.

84. First, as a matter of principle, and despite the national divergences in this field, State liability for judicial conduct is widely acknowledged in the Member States. (45) EU law does not preclude that the State can be held liable for the damages caused by the judiciary in the exercise of its functions. (46) In fact, EU law requires there to be State liability for judicial breaches of (at least) EU law. As the Court noted in Köbler, 'the existence of a right of action that affords, under certain conditions, reparation of the injurious effects of an erroneous judicial decision could also be regarded as enhancing the quality of a legal system and thus in the long run the authority of the judiciary'. (47)

85. Second, the definition in question in the present case contains several elements which circumscribe the scope of judicial error that may trigger State liability. (48) Only manifest errors seem to qualify as judicial errors under the definition set out above above, 'clear breach of provisions of substantive or procedural law', or a judgment which is 'manifestly contrary to the law or inconsistent with the factual situation'. In this connection, the Court has stated, in a different context, that to limit State liability to the exceptional case where a court has manifestly infringed the applicable law is an element which ensures respect for the specific nature of the judicial function and for the legitimate requirements of legal certainty. (49) In addition, the definition at issue also limits the existence of judicial error by reference to the seriousness of the prejudice caused ('entailing a serious infringement of the rights, freedoms or legitimate interest'). A relationship of causality is also required ('causing harm'). Moreover, there is an 'ultima ratio' requirement, in that it is necessary for it to have not been possible to remedy the harm 'by means of ordinary or extraordinary appeal'.

86. Interpreting the criteria taken at face value, it would appear that the conditions for State liability will in practice be limited to final decisions only, in which the manifest errors committed have directly resulted in serious harm to the individual. If that were indeed the case, then the question to be asked would not necessarily be whether such criteria are not too broad as to be potentially misused for putting pressure on individual judges for their individual decisions, but, as far as State liability is concerned, whether such, indeed rather narrow, conditions of State liability do not make it excessively difficult, or in practice impossible, for individuals to obtain reparation from the State.

87. The existence of liability for damage caused in the exercise of the judicial function is necessarily connected with access to courts and with the right to an effective remedy. (50) In this light, criteria for State liability that are too narrow, in the absence of any possibilities of direct action against judges themselves for civil liability, may in themselves become problematic.

88. Indeed, as the Court noted in Traghetti del Mediterraneo 'although it remains possible for national law to define the criteria relating to the nature or degree of the infringement which must be met before State liability can be incurred for an infringement of [EU] law attributable to a national court adjudicating at last instance, under no circumstances may such criteria impose requirements stricter than that of a manifest infringement of the applicable law'. (51)

89. This Court has also found that the EU principle of State liability for damage caused to individuals as a result of an infringement of EU law by last-instance courts precludes national provisions excluding State liability due to the fact that the infringement results from a judicial interpretation of the rules of law or an assessment of facts or evidence, as well as national legislation which limits such liability solely to cases of intentional fault and serious misconduct on the part of the national court, if such a limitation were to lead to exclusion of the liability of the Member State concerned in cases where a manifest infringement of the applicable law was committed. (52) That principle also precludes national rules requiring, as a precondition, the setting aside of the decision given by the court or tribunal which caused the loss or damage, when such setting aside is, in practice, impossible. (53)

90. Third, there is the succinct and abstract character of the definition of judicial error criticised by the national court. However, I must admit to being somewhat puzzled in this regard. Given its infinitely variable nature, how else could judicial error be defined? Hardly by an exhaustive list of acts which are to constitute judicial error. Any such provision would soon turn into a phonebook, owing to the continuous discovery of a number of new acts that were not previously included in the list. Thus, in a similar way to the definition of, for example, judicial disciplinary offence, the structure of the definition of what may constitute judicial error cannot be anything other than a general and somewhat abstract definition with which makes reference to indeterminate legal concepts. (54) This, in turn, underlines the importance and the knowledge of its interpretation by the relevant national courts and authorities. There has, however, been no such practice to date, or at least no such practice has been brought to the attention of this Court.

91. As a result, I do not consider that the EU principle of judicial independence enshrined in the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter and in the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU would preclude, in principle, a definition of judicial error which, for the purposes of State liability, relies on elements such as those outlined in the present proceedings.

(b) Repercussions for the civil liability of judges

(1) General considerations

92. The separation of the regime of State liability, on the one hand, and the personal liability of the members of the judiciary, be it civil or disciplinary, on the other, is essential from the point of view of the principle of judicial independence. The establishment of a system of State liability for judicial error represents a compromise between the principle of effective judicial remedies for judicial error and the independence of the judiciary. It enables compensation for individuals who have suffered harm while shielding judges from direct actions taken by the those individuals against them.

93. In Köbler, the Court was already faced with arguments submitted by the Member States suggesting that extending the EU law principle of State liability to damages attributable to judicial acts or omissions could compromise judicial independence. In response to those arguments, the Court stated that 'the principle of liability in question concerns not the personal liability of the judge but that of the State. The possibility that under certain conditions the State may be rendered liable for judicial decisions contrary to [EU] law does not appear to entail any particular risk that the independence of a court adjudicating at last instance will be called in question'. (55) As Advocate General Léger noted in his Opinion in that case, the question of the independence of the judiciary should not be raised in the context of rules governing the liability of the State, but in the context of the establishment of rules governing the personal liability of judges. (56)

94. It is indeed the second phase, involving the possible personal liability of judges, that is crucial in terms of judicial independence. That is not to say that the first phase, concerning the State liability, is deprived of any relevance. However the threat is more remote. When assessing the second phase, the external aspect of the EU principle of judicial independence requires that the rules relating to the civil liability of judges through the possibility for the State to directly recover damages paid to the injured parties must ensure that judges are protected against pressure liable to impair their independent judgment and to influence their decisions. (57) Bearing in mind the existential link between these two procedures, as the latter cannot exist without the former, due consideration must also be given to the degree of connection between them, as well as to the specific modalities concerning the substantive requirements and procedural guarantees for judges in the framework of State liability proceedings .

95. As a matter of principle, judicial independence certainly does not equal judicial immunity from liability, be it civil or disciplinary.The possibility for the State to seek recovery, in specific cases, is in my view not precluded by the principle of judicial independence. Such a possibility reintroduces an element of accountability on the part of the judiciary, which is also essential for maintaining the public confidence in the justice system.

96. That proposition finds solid support in comparative law. With the exception of the Member States belonging to the common law tradition, in which there is indeed an established tradition of judicial immunity as a safeguard of judicial independence, (58) State liability for damages caused by the judiciary is widely accepted, as noted above. In particular, where such State liability exists, several Member States (albeit not all of them) enable the State to recover the sums paid from the judge concerned, in cases where aggravating elements are given, such as bad faith or serious negligence.

97. Domestic solutions as far as the civil and personal liability of judges is concerned, vary greatly in that regard. Some (civil law) jurisdictions apply the general regime of recovery from civil servants to judges. Others impose additional requirements and guarantees, such as a previous criminal or disciplinary judgment, or cap the amount of damages to be borne by the judge. In yet more jurisdictions, the partial recovery of damages borne by the State may be carried out in the criminal or disciplinary proceedings themselves. (59) These divergences show that the balance between accountability and judicial independence is understood rather differently in various jurisdictions, depending on judicial traditions and constitutional conceptions concerning the principle of the separation of powers and the different arrangements of checks and balances between those powers. Perhaps the only common denominator is that, in practice, such instances do not happen frequently and the national rules on the personal liability of judges are indeed the dusty attic of constitutional law.

98. In view of that rather broad variety, several international bodies have proposed certain standards in this regard. However, depending on the nature and the type of international body, such recommendations appear in fact to vary. The dividing line appears to run, with some simplification, between the standards drafted by judges themselves at the international level, and the standards proposed by bodies or institutions composed of members with more diverse professional backgrounds. On the one hand, there is, for example, the clear position of the CCJE, advocating for a broad or even full functional immunity. (60) On the other hand, the Venice Commission has summarised its position in Opinion No 924/2018 in the following terms: 'in general, judges should not become liable for recourse action when they are exercising their judicial function according to professional standards defined by law (functional immunity)' and that 'judges' liability is admissible as long as there is intent or gross negligence on the part of the judge'. (61)

99. However, on this specific point, the positions of some international bodies, especially those unchecked by political processes within which other powers from the State would be represented at the international level and have an effective say in their approval, should be taken with a (rather large) pinch of salt. A sound balance between judicial independence and judicial accountability is rather likely to emerge in the often painful and lengthy dialogue or 'multilogue' within the framework of the separation of powers, where the sometimes one-sided ideas of one power are indeed mutually checked and balanced by the others.

100. In sum, in my view, the EU principle of judicial independence does not preclude, per se, the possibility that, in cases where the responsibility of the State has been triggered for damages caused in the exercise of the judicial functions, the State seeks, in cases of bad faith or gross negligence, to recover the sums paid from the judge concerned. Moreover, bearing in mind the diversity of national models available in the Member States, it simply cannot be maintained that the EU principle of judicial independence imposes a specific regime of liability, linked, for example, to a criminal conviction or disciplinary sanction that has previously been imposed, or even would provide that any judicial liability may be triggered only as a form of sanction in those proceedings.

101. What is important is the quality of, and guarantees within, the framework chosen. Whatever the model, the rules within that model, such as those relating to the civil liability of judges through the possibility for the State to seek the recovery of damages paid to the infringed persons, must ensure that judges are protected against pressure liable to impair their independence of judgment and to influence their decisions. For the reasons set out above, in the absence of any practical application at the national level that would hint at any actual misuse, in what follows I will focus solely on the abstract review of the blueprint, coupled with the suggested possible interplay of the rules on judicial liability with other rules recently adopted in the field of the reform of the Justice Laws in 2018. (62)

(2) The contested elements

102. As noted when examining the admissibility of the questions in this case, the order for reference is lacking in information on the reasons which led the referring court to raise its questions. In particular, even though the main proceedings concern the liability of the State with regard to an alleged unlawful deprivation of liberty, the referring court has not given any explanation regarding the relationship between the general definition of judicial error provided for in Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004 and the specific provisions relating to the liability of the State in criminal procedures in Articles 539 and 541 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

103. That fact has motivated my proposal to declare the seventh question inadmissible. It is also relevant in the context of the response to be given to questions four to six. Therefore, my analysis below is based on the premiss that Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004 is indeed relevant for the purposes of the main proceedings.

104. In order to provide a useful answer to the referring court, there are three different sets of issues that merit consideration and that emerged from the submissions of the parties as well as at the hearing: whether the subjective elements giving rise to the civil liability of judges may legitimately be tied to instances of bad faith or gross negligence (i); whether the procedure regarding the decision to pursue the action for recovery is subject to specific guarantees (ii); and whether that procedure, in view of the narrow connection with the proceedings deciding on the liability of the State for judicial error, respects the rights of the defence of the judges concerned (iii).

(i) Bad faith or gross negligence

105. Article 96(7) of Law No 303/2004 provides that the recovery action by the State against the judge who is responsible the judicial error is limited to cases of bad faith or serious negligence. Those concepts are defined in Article 991 of Law No 303/2004, a provision which comes under the section of that law devoted to the disciplinary liability of judges and prosecutors. In my understanding, for State liability to be paid out in the first phase, there must be a judicial error meeting all the criteria set out in either Article 96(3)(a) or (b) of Law No 303/2004. Next, in order for a recovery action brought against a judge to succeed in the second phase, there must also be, apart from those conditions, a subjective element established vis-à-vis the individual judge concerned, either in the form of bad faith or gross negligence.

106. If that is indeed the case, then I am bound to agree with the submissions of the Commission and the Romanian Government on this point. The fact that a recovery action is possible in cases of bad faith or serious negligence is again not per se problematic. Those concepts are defined by the law in a way that does not appear to deviate from the generally established definitions of those concepts. According to Article 991(1) of Law No 303/2004, bad faith is found where the judge 'knowingly infringes rules of substantive or procedural law and either has the intention of harming another person or accepts that the infringement will cause harm to another person'. According to Article 991(2), there is gross negligence when the judge 'negligently disregards rules of substantive or procedural law in a manner that is serious, irrefutable and inexcusable'. Moreover, it appears that the exercise of that judicial function in bad faith or with gross negligence, irrespective of possible criminal liability, can also amount to a disciplinary offence pursuant to Article 99(t) of that law, even if the act does not meet the constitutive elements of a crime.

107. No argument has been put forward before this Court explaining what exactly is wrong with such a definition, nor has it been demonstrated that the judicial interpretation of those concepts casts doubt on their practical application or indicate abuse. Again, if the argument that 'true judicial independence' requires full functional immunity is not embraced, then the acknowledgement of liability for damages caused in bad faith or through gross negligence is in line with what appears to be the general standard, as also pointed out by the Venice Commission. (63)

108. I also fail to see why the requirements imposed by the EU principle of judicial independence should seek to deviate from such balance. Once judges are effectively shielded from any direct liability actions by the establishment of State liability as the only possible path for individuals to seek damages, the existence of a narrower possibility of recovery by the State in indeed egregious instances of actual misuse of power by the judge (64) and gross negligence, renders the judicial function accountable to a standard of diligence where only serious breaches are liable to trigger the civil liability of the judge.

109. However, on the whole, the point of contention in this case seems to be not so much the material conditions for triggering the civil liability of members of the judiciary but, rather, the procedure which makes it possible for the Ministry of Public Finances, acting as the applicant, to trigger an action in the second phase. It is that element to which I now turn.

(ii) The Ministry of Public Finances as the applicant?

110. The referring court has noted that in the second phase, where it is to be established whether the error was committed by the member of the judiciary in bad faith or with gross negligence, the rules established by Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004 are manifestly arbitrary because the liability of the member of the judiciary is left exclusively to the determination of the State.

111. The Government of the Netherlands submitted at the hearing that the new system for civil liability of members of the judiciary is problematic if the executive power has a discretionary and decisive role in the triggering of the action for recovery. That government also notes the need to consider that system in the light of the global assessment of the reforms of the justice system in Romania.

112. The Commission submits for its part that, even if the liability of judges in instances of bad faith or gross negligence is not problematic per se, it is, however, necessary that some procedural guarantees be provided. In its view, the fact that the recovery action is examined by an independent jurisdiction is already a procedural guarantee. It is also necessary that the conditions in which the recovery action is introduced present specific guarantees. In that respect, the Commission states that there are different possibilities. The triggering of the recovery action could be limited to cases in which the criminal or disciplinary liability of the judge has already been established by a definitive decision. Another possible guarantee could be that the introduction of the recovery action is entrusted to an independent judicial structure, such as the SCM. The Commission submits that those guarantees are not ensured by the provisions at issue in this case because the Ministry of Public Finances can initiate the recovery action at its own discretion and because the opinion of the Judicial Inspection is purely advisory. In that regard, the position of the Commission is in line with some of the observations of the GRECO and the Venice Commission. (65)

113. It appears from those considerations that the main concerns regarding the new provisions on the civil liability of judges revolve around the participation of two bodies in the process leading to the decision of the State to initiate the action for recovery: the Ministry of Public Finances and the Judicial Inspection.

114. According to Article 96(7) of Law No 303/2004, the Ministry of Public Finances shall within two months of notification of the final judgment deciding on the liability of the State for judicial error refer the matter to the Judicial Inspection. That body may, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 741 of Law No 317/2004, determine whether the judicial error was caused by a judge acting in bad faith or with gross negligence. Within six months from the date of the notification of that report, pursuant to Article 96(8) of Law No 303/2004, the State, represented by the Ministry of Public Finances, shall bring an action for redress where, following the advisory report of the Judicial Inspection mentioned above and 'its own assessment', it considers that the judicial error was caused by the judge acting in bad faith or with gross negligence.

115. In my view, one element is worth highlighting at the outset: if I understand the national rules correctly, the role of the Ministry of Public Finances is limited to deciding whether it will initiate the recovery action and thereby start the second phase. Thus, for all practical purposes, that ministry is simply the potential applicant in a procedure that is supposed to take place before an independent court. Moreover, that ministry may only act if, following another procedure before another independent court, a final judicial decision is taken which confirms the existence of a judicial error and the liability of the State.

116. Thus, for all practical purposes, the discretion in the decision-making of the Ministry of Public Finances appears to be in fact 'sandwiched' in between two instances of independent civil courts. Within such a context, I again have some difficulty in seeing what is incompatible per se with a solution which provides the treasury, which has had to pay out money to the injured individual following the independent assessment of one civil court, with standing, as the applicant, the possibility of pursuing redress from the judge who might have caused that damage in bad faith or with gross negligence. (66) Moreover, the Ministry cannot decide itself on the matter of civil liability - it merely decides whether to go before another (independent) court.

117. What further safeguards against potential abuse by the public power exerting pressure on judges are necessary in such a system? To start with, the suggestion that there must be some additional safeguards implies that, in that Member State, two sets of independent courts with all the remedies available (67) are not enough to prevent structural misuse. However, if that is in fact the starting assumption, what is the judicial independence to be protected within such a system? Two sets of litigation are susceptible to misuse, but if a third were to be added, this time perhaps in the form of disciplinary proceedings, will all be well? Moreover, in structural terms, the assumption that the first round of the State liability procedure could be influenced in order to put pressure on an individual judge by selectively deciding whether to initiate the action for recovery, also labours under the somewhat singular assumption of a kamikaze Member State that would be ready to influence its own courts to its detriment, thus effectively inducing them to award individual damages against it, in order to put pressure on individual judges in the second phase.

118. Be that as it may, again I do not see how in an EU legal order which is respectful of procedural autonomy and institutional diversity amongst its Member States, a national system in which the possible civil liability of judges can be ascertained only after two separate sets of litigation before (independent) civil courts, subject to review and the remedies available under the national system, would per se be incompatible with the EU principle of judicial independence.

119. Certainly, there might be other conceivable institutional or procedural arrangements. Any liability of a judge, be it civil or disciplinary, could be made exclusively dependent on a final decision of the body adjudicating disciplinary procedures in the judiciary. That may indeed be, under certain circumstances, a more logical and advisable institutional approach, guaranteeing coherence between the disciplinary and civil liability proceedings. (68) However, those considerations, which advocate for a presumably better institutional design, do not automatically mean that there is an infringement of the requirements of the principle of judicial independence simply because other institutional designs are envisaged. (69) Indeed, from the point of view of the requirements of the EU principle of judicial independence, what is decisive is not so much the disciplinary, civil or criminal nature of the jurisdiction taking the final decision, but its independence.

120. However, when one focuses on the specific element of the role of the Ministry of Public Finances in deciding whether to initiate the recovery action, there appears to be a lack of clarity on precisely what those rules are. I understand that this is in part attributable to the fact of there that there is no practical application on that point. The Romanian Government has submitted first that the action is not automatic. At the hearing, however, that government explained that the initiation of an action for recovery is conditional on a report from the Judicial Inspection establishing that the judicial error was caused by bad faith or serious negligence.

121. Rather than imposing an obligation on the Ministry of Public Finances to initiate the action, it seems therefore that Article 96(7) of Law No 303/2004 sets out a systematic procedure that the Ministry of Public Finances must activate by remitting the case to the Judicial Inspection every time a claim against the State for judicial error is successful. This means that State liability automatically gives rise to an investigation concerning the existence of bad faith or serious negligence on the part of the judge, which then crystallises in a report.

122. In my view, provided that a decision on either State liability or potential successive civil liability of a judge in cases of bad faith or gross negligence can be taken only by an independent court, this is a sufficient guarantee in itself. However, taking into account the intention of the national legislature to clearly subject the discretion of the applicant before the second phase to further guarantees, the participation of the Judicial Inspection, as the independent body within the SCM in charge of the investigations of a disciplinary nature within the judiciary, constitutes an element suitable to enhance the guarantees of the system. However, this is subject to two conditions: first, the Judicial Inspection must itself be independent. Second, the report issued by it must be binding on, if it arrives at a negative conclusion, the Ministry of Public Finances.

123. Regarding the first condition, as noted in my Opinion in Asociaţia Forumul Judecătorilor din România and Others, despite the fact that the Judicial Inspection does not adjudicate on disciplinary issues, it is quite evident that its investigative powers are already liable, regardless of the guarantees offered by the body taking the final decision on the disciplinary proceedings, to exert some pressure on the persons who have the task of adjudicating in a dispute. (70) Therefore, to my mind, in a system such as the one at issue in this case, it is imperative that the body in charge of providing an expert assessment regarding bad faith or gross negligence is itself, to a reasonable degree, impartial. Neither the order for reference nor the parties have, however, presented arguments to this Court liable to cast doubt on the impartiality of the Judicial Inspection in that regard. (71)

124. As to the second condition, even though the Court expressly asked for some clarifications at the hearing, it remains uncertain whether the Ministry of Public Finances can bring the action in the event that the report of the Judicial Inspection concludes that there that there was no bad faith or gross negligence. The Romanian Government explained at the hearing that, even if that is not apparent from the text of the provision, the finding of bad faith or serious negligence in the report of the Judicial Inspection is a condition for the Ministry of Public Finances to initiate the recovery action.

125. If that were indeed the case, which is ultimately for the national court to ascertain, then the system would not only provide the necessary guarantees (that any finding of personal judicial liability is subject to rather narrow conditions and can only be established by an independent court), but would even provide guarantees above and beyond what is strictly necessary as a matter of course (for example, that the Ministry, as the applicant in the second phase, must respect specific requirements in order to initiate a recovery action before such an independent court).

(iii) Rights of the defence

126. The referring court has stated in the order for reference that the judge does not have the opportunity to exercise fully his or her rights of defence. First, the national court considers that the first phase, concerning exclusively the injured individual as the applicant and the State as the defendant, excludes the member of the judiciary actually concerned from the proceedings. That is liable to undermine the principle of audi alteram partem and the rights of the defence of the judge in the subsequent proceedings in which the State may seek redress directly from the judge, in so far as the legal issue of the existence of a judicial error is resolved in the course of the first phase.

127. The Commission submitted at the hearing that a finding of a judicial error cannot trigger the liability of a judge if that judge is unable to present his or her position in the proceedings leading to the establishment of that error. The judge should also be heard in the procedure aimed at establishing the liability of the State for judicial error.

128. The Romanian Government clarified at the hearing that the defendant judge can call into question, in the procedure on his or her liability, all the statements relating to the existence of judicial error contained in the judgment ruling on the liability of the State. Furthermore, that judge can also participate as intervener in the procedure against the State.

129. I am afraid that, with regard to this specific question, this Court finds itself somewhat lacking in information. It is not clear whether the court adjudicating on the judicial error during the first phase is obliged to accept any application for leave to intervene. The procedural status of the judge is in those proceedings is unclear. Finally, due to the fact that the case before the national court is actually in the first phase, and not the second one, there is a distinct lack of clarity as to how any final statement of the civil court in the first phase vis-à-vis the existence of judicial error will be taken into account in the second phase. After all, the substantive definition of what exactly constitutes a judicial error appears to be the same for both phases: what is added in the second phase is the subjective element of bad faith or gross negligence, but with regard to the same judicial error.

130. In any case, in my view, a judge facing an action for civil liability in the second phase must be able to contest any and all elements appertaining to that case: all the definitional elements which may be used to establish his or her alleged judicial error under Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004, as well as his or her intent (or the lack thereof), in relation to that error under Article 991 of Law No 303/2004. How exactly such a full right of defence is to implemented in the structure of the two proceedings is indeed a matter for national law. All that is clear is what cannot happen, namely a judge finding himself or herself in the second phase, having not participated in any meaningful way in the first one, faced with a finding on the existence of judicial error which would already have been decided in the first phase, thereby effectively pre-judging his or her personal liability.

131. It is for the national court to determine whether the national procedural provisions applicable in the framework of the recovery action lodged by the State allow for such full rights of defence for the judge concerned. If that were not the case, it is for the referring court to interpret the national procedural provisions in conformity with the requirements of the rights of the defence of Article 47 of the Charter, in order to give the judge, in the framework of either the proceedings between the injured party and the State or certainly at latest in the proceedings between the State and the judge concerned, the possibility to present his or her position in full with regard to all the elements alleged.

(c) Conclusion and a caveat

132. In my view, the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter and the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU neither preclude national provisions on State liability for judicial error such as Article 96(3) of Law No 303/2004, nor the existence of the possibility for the State subsequently to bring a recovery action for civil liability against the judge concerned in cases of bad faith or gross negligence on the part of that judge, provided that those procedures offer sufficient guarantees to ensure that members of the judiciary are not subjected to direct or indirect pressure liable to affect their decisions. It is for the national court to assess, in the light of all the relevant factors before it, whether those conditions are satisfied by Article 96 of Law No 303/2004, by other pertinent national rules, and in the application practice.

133. In the context of the present case and the information provided to this Court in these proceedings, any other conclusion would, in my view, come dangerously close either to suggesting that, as a matter of EU law, there must be full functional immunity for national judges, or having this Court effectively engage in redesigning national institutions and procedures by taking certain competences from one institution (civil courts) and effectively shifting it to another (disciplinary panels or other bodies within the SCM), without having any specific reason to do so apart from a preconceived vision of a certain structure of judicial accountability. Needless to say, not only would that contradict the principle of national institutional and procedural autonomy, but it would also render a number of other national solutions which exist in the Member States incompatible with EU law.

134. As highlighted in my Opinion in Asociaţia Forumul Judecătorilor din România and Others, (72) but also in recent judgments of this Court concerning the independence of the Polish judiciary, (73) the assessment of the rules touching on judicial organisation and the separation of powers is closely connected to a broader legal and circumstantial context. Unless it is only the abstract compatibility of an institutional blueprint that is to be examined, the assessment of those rules cannot be detached from the factual circumstances and examples of their use in practice. In this sense, national rules designed to foster the accountability of the judiciary, as perfect as they may seem 'on paper', are certainly not immune from internal or external pressure in practice.

135. However, as repeatedly highlighted throughout this Opinion, nothing has been revealed in this case which would demonstrate how exactly the rules at stake in the present case would be prone to misuse in combination with other rules, or how they are actually being misused in practice.

136. My conclusion reached above is therefore valid in the abstract context presented to this Court, where the parties have expressly acknowledged that there is no practice or indication as to the practical (mis)use of the new system as a measure for pressure on judges. That conclusion naturally does not preclude a different outcome being reached by a national court, or even by this Court, in the light of future developments in terms of the practical use of the system just assessed.

V. Conclusion

137. In the light of the foregoing considerations, it is my view that the Court should answer the questions referred as follows: the second paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) TEU neither preclude national provisions on State liability for judicial error such as Article 96(3) of Legea nr. 303/2004 privind statutul judecătorilor și procurorilor (Law No 303/2004 on the rules governing the status of judges and prosecutors), nor the existence of the possibility for the State subsequently to initiate a recovery action for civil liability against the judge concerned in cases of bad faith or gross negligence on the part of that judge, provided that those procedures offer sufficient guarantees to ensure that members of the judiciary are not subjected to direct or indirect pressure liable to affect their decisions. It is for the national court to assess, in the light of all the relevant factors before it, whether those conditions are satisfied by Article 96 of Law No 303/2004, by other pertinent national rules, and in the application practice.

1 Original language: English.

2 Decision of 13 December 2006 establishing a mechanism for cooperation and verification of progress in Romania to address specific benchmarks in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption (OJ 2006 L 354, p. 56) ('the MCV Decision').

3 Opinion of 23 September 2020 in Joined Cases C‑83/19, C‑127/19, C‑195/19, in Case C‑291/19 and in Case C‑355/19 (EU:C..) 'the Opinion in Asociaţia Forumul Judecătorilor din România and Others', abbreviated as 'the AFJR Opinion' for reference purposes.

4 Monitorul Oficial al României, Part I No 868 of 15 October 2018.

5 See points 173 to 182 of the AFJR Opinion.

6 See point 78 of the AFJR Opinion.

7 See point 79 of the AFJR Opinion.

8 Judgment of 26 March 2020, Miasto Łowicz and Prokurator Generalny zastępowany przez Prokuraturę Krajową (Disciplinary regime for judges) (C‑558/18 and C‑563/18, EU:C:2020:234, paragraph 45).

9 Ibid., paragraphs 20, 21 and 54.

10 For a presentation of the individual scenarios, together with a suggestion about the elements to be argued and established in each individual case, see points 240 to 248 of the AFJR Opinion.

11 Which is, in a way, just an issue of how to pose a question formally: (i) is a national system of disciplinary proceedings compatible with EU requirements on judicial independence because judge X fears being threatened with a disciplinary sanction?, can easily be rephrased as (ii) is the right to a fair trial of applicant A in a case involving EU law not compromised by the fact that that case is being adjudicated by judge X, who is being threatened with disciplinary proceedings if he or she does not decide in a certain way?

12 See, by way of illustration, judgment of 14 March 2013, Aziz (C‑415/11, EU:C:2013:164, paragraph 32 et seq.) or of 9 November 2017, Ispas (C‑298/16, EU:C:2017:843, paragraph 20 et seq.).

13 The Court, as will be discussed below in point 93, having regard to the merits of the questions, excluded that the requirement of a system of State liability for judicial errors amounts to an issue of the threat to the independence of an individual judge.

14 See, similarly, my recent Opinion in Hochtief Solutions Magyarországi Fióktelepe (C‑620/17, EU:C:2019:340, point 36).

15 Above, points 35 to 38 of this Opinion.

16 See point 220 of the AFJR Opinion.

17 Points 186 to 225 of the AFJR Opinion.

18 See also above, point 21 of this Opinion.

19 See, to that effect, judgments of 24 June 2019, Commission v Poland (Independence of the Supreme Court) (C‑619/18, EU:C:2019:531, paragraph 51); of 19 November 2019, A. K. and Others (Independence of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court) (C‑585/18, C‑624/18 and C‑625/18, EU:C:2019:982, paragraph 83); and of 26 March 2020, Miasto Łowicz and Prokurator Generalny zastępowany przez Prokuraturę Krajową (Disciplinary regime for judges) (C‑558/18 and C‑563/18, EU:C:2020:234, paragraph 34).

20 In detail, points 212 to 225 of the AFJR Opinion.

21 Above, point 30 of this Opinion.

22 See, for a recent example, judgment of 2 April 2020, I.N. (C‑897/19 PPU, EU:C:2020:262, paragraph 43).

23 Decisions of the Curtea Constituțională (Constitutional Court) No 45/2018 of 30 January 2018, Monitorul Oficial al României Part I No 199 of 5 March 2018 and No 252/2018 of 19 April 2018, Monitorul Oficial al României Part I No 399 of 9 May 2018.

24 Decision No 417/2018 of 19 June 2018, Monitorul Oficial al României Part I No 534 of 27 June 2018.

25 Monitorul Oficial al României, Part I No 850 of 8 October 2018.

26 To sum up that provision, the assessment by the Judicial Inspection is carried out by a committee of three judges or three prosecutors depending on the position of the person being assessed. The assessment shall be completed within 30 days of the referral with a possibility of extension by up to 30 days ordered by the chief inspector. Such assessment is also possible when the person concerned no longer holds the position of judge or prosecutor (paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 6). The hearing of the judge concerned is mandatory, but the refusal of the judge being assessed to make statements or to participate at the hearings shall be recorded in the minutes and shall not prevent the completion of the assessment. The judge concerned has the right to know all acts of the assessment procedure and to request evidence in defence. The assessment shall be finalised by a report which is subject to confirmation by the chief inspector (paragraphs 4, 5 and 8). Finally, the report shall be communicated to the Ministry of Public Finances and to the judge concerned (paragraph 7).

27 According to the previous wording of Article 96(4) of Law No 303/2004, before its amendment, as reproduced in the document CDL-REF(2018)023 accompanying the Opinion of the Venice Commission 924/2018, 'an injured person's right to compensation for the material damages caused through judicial errors committed in trials other than the criminal trials can be exercised only if a final decision has previously established the criminal or disciplinary liability, according to case, of the judge or prosecutor for an act committed during trial and if this act is likely to determine a judicial error'.

28 According to the previous wording of Article 96(7) of Law No 303/2004, before its amendment, as reproduced in the document CDL-REF(2018)023 accompanying the Opinion of the Venice Commission 924/2018, 'after the damages have been covered by the State on grounds of an irrevocable decision handed down according to paragraph (6), the State may lodge an action for compensation against the judge or prosecutor who committed, either in bad faith or with serious negligence, the judicial error that caused the damages'.

29 See, for example, for the liability for judicial acts in the EU law field, Martín Rodríguez, P., 'State Liability for Judicial Acts in European Community Law: the Conceptual Weaknesses of the Functional Approach', Columbia Journal of European Law, Vol. 11, issue 3, 2005, pp. 605 to 621, at 614 et seq. In general, see for example Fairgrieve, D., State Liability in Tort: a Comparative Law Study, Oxford University Press, 2003 or Oliphant, K., (ed.), The Liability of Public Authorities in Comparative Perspective, Intersentia, 2016.

30 Report from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on Progress in Romania under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, COM(2018) 851 of 13 November 2018 (MCV Commission Report 2018), paragraph 3.1, p. 3. In this report, the Commission made a recommendation to 'suspend immediately the implementation of the Justice laws and subsequent Emergency Ordinances' and to 'revise the Justice laws taking fully into account the recommendations under the [MCV] and issued by the Venice Commission and GRECO.'

31 Commission Staff Working Document. Romania: Technical Report accompanying the MCV Commission Report 2018, SWD (2018) 551, p. 6.

32 Venice Commission, Opinion No 924/2018 on amendments to Law No. 303/2004 on the Statute of Judges and Prosecutors, Law No. 304/2004 on Judicial Organisation, and Law No. 317/2004 on the Superior Council for Magistracy, adopted by the Commission at its 116th Plenary Session (Venice, 19 to 20 October 2018), CDL-AD(2018)017, ('Venice Commission Opinion No 924/2018), point 115.

33 Ibid., point 116.

34 Ibid., point 117.

35 Ibid., point 121.

36 Ibid., points 118 and 122.

37 GRECO Ad hoc Report on Romania (Rule 34), 23 March 2018, Greco-AdHocRep(2018)2, ('GRECO Report of 2018'), point 47.

38 Follow-up Report to the Ad hoc Report on Romania (Rule 34), 21 June 2019, Greco-AdHocRep(2019)1, ('Follow-up GRECO Report of 2019'), points 45 to 52.

39 Opinion of the CCJE Bureau following a request by the Romanian Judges Forum Association as regards the situation on the independence of the judiciary in Romania, 25 April 2019, CCJE-BU(2019)4, ('CCJE Opinion of 2019'), points 34 to 44.

40 See points 250 to 256 of the AFJR Opinion.

41 Or perhaps where it should not lie: with the wealth of assembled empirical evidence particularly in central and eastern European countries since the 1990s, it is now being suggested that the institutional models and designs that have been recommended for a number of years by various European actors are not necessarily ideal with regard to their impact on the accountability and efficiency of the judicial process. See notably, for example, Kosař, D., Perils of Judicial Self-Government in Transitional Societies, Cambridge University Press, 2016.

42 See points 240 to 243 of the AFJR Opinion.

43 See, for example, judgments of 30 September 2003, Köbler (C‑224/01, EU:C:2003:513); of 13 June 2006, Traghetti del Mediterraneo (C‑173/03, EU:C:2006:391); of 9 September 2015, Ferreira da Silva e Brito and Others (C‑160/14, EU:C:2015:565).

44 See, to that effect, judgment of 24 June 2019, Commission v Poland (Independence of the Supreme Court) (C‑619/18, EU:C:2019:531, paragraph 52).

45 For the situation some years ago, see Opinion of Advocate General Léger in Köbler (C‑224/01, EU:C:2003:207, points 77 to 84). From that analysis, he concluded that 'the principle of State liability for the acts or omissions of supreme courts can be acknowledged as a general principle of Community law' (point 85 of that Opinion). The criteria for such liability in 'internal situations' in a considerable number of Member States seems to be, however, substantially stricter. See, for example, Scherr, K.M., 'Comparative aspects of the application of the principle of State liability for judicial breaches', ERA, 2012, pp. 565 to 588; or Varga, Z., 'Why is the Köbler Principle not Applied in Practice?', Maastricht Journal of European and Comparative Law, 2016, pp. 984 to 1008, at 989 to 991.

46 See, with regard to state liability for damages caused to individuals by Member States' courts, judgment of 30 September 2003, Köbler (C‑224/01, EU:C:2003:513); or of 13 June 2006, Traghetti del Mediterraneo (C‑173/03, EU:C:2006:391); or, most recently, of 29 July 2019, Hochtief Solutions Magyarországi Fióktelepe (C‑620/17, EU:C:2019:630).

47 Judgment of 30 September 2003, Köbler (C‑224/01, EU:C:2003:513, paragraph 43).

48 Moreover, the Romanian Government has added at the hearing that, regarding the definition of judicial error, the case-law of the Curtea Constituțională (Constitutional Court) and, in particular, Decision No 417/2018 has introduced at least eight conditions for the admissibility of State liability claims.

49 See, to that effect, judgment of 30 September 2003, Köbler (C‑224/01, EU:C:2003:513, paragraph 53).

50 See, for example, ECtHR judgments of 15 July 2003 Ernst and Others v. Belgium, CE:ECHR:2003:0715JUD003340096, §§ 47 to 57, and of 12 June 2012, Gryaznov v. Russia, CE:ECHR:2012:0612JUD001967303, §§ 76 et seq. See also judgment of 30 September 2003, Köbler (C‑224/01, EU:C:2003:513, paragraph 36).

51 Judgments of 13 June 2006 (C‑173/03, EU:C:2006:391, paragraph 44).

52 See judgments of 13 June 2006, Traghetti del Mediterraneo (C‑173/03, EU:C:2006:391, paragraph 46), and of 24 November 2011, Commission v Italy (C‑379/10, not published, EU:C:2011:775, paragraphs 35 to 37).

53 Judgment of 9 September 2015, Ferreira da Silva e Brito and Others (C‑160/14, EU:C:2015:565, paragraph 60).

54 See, in a similar vein, the conclusion of the Venice Commission when examining the current wording of the definition of judicial error, noting that 'it is not possible to define judicial error without recourse to general notions, which have to be interpreted by the courts'. Venice Commission, Opinion No 924/2018, point 115.

55 Judgment of 30 September 2003 (C‑224/01, EU:C:2003:513, paragraph 42).

56 Opinion of Advocate General Léger in Köbler (C‑224/01, EU:C:2003:207, point 90).

57 See, to that effect, judgment of 19 November 2019, A. K. and Others (Independence of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court) (C‑585/18, C‑624/18 and C‑625/18, EU:C:2019:982, paragraph 121 and the case-law cited).

58 See, for example, Frau, M., 'The Doctrine of Judicial Immunity from Civil Liability in a Comparative Perspective' in Cygan, A. and Spadacini, L., (eds.), Constitutional Implications of the Traghetti Judgment, biblioFabbrica, Brescia, 2010, pp. 163 to 179; for a critical account, Toner, H., 'Thinking the Unthinkable? State Liability for Judicial Acts after Factortame (III)', Yearbook of European Law, 1997, pp. 165 to 189.

59 See, for example, Canivet, G., and Joly-Hurard, J., 'La responsabilité des juges, ici et ailleurs', Revue internationale de droit comparé, 2006, Vol. 58, No 4, pp. 1049 to 1093, at p. 1074 et seq. See, for an older account, Opinion no. 3 (2002) of the CCJE on the principles and rules governing judges' professional conduct, in particular ethics, incompatible behaviour and impartiality.

60 Opinion no. 3 (2002) CCJE to the attention of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the principles and rules governing judges' professional conduct, in particular ethics, incompatible behaviour and impartiality. In that Opinion, the CCJE considered that 'it is not appropriate for a judge to be exposed, in respect of the purported exercise of judicial functions, to any personal liability, even by way of reimbursement of the state, except in a case of willful default'. Similarly, in the Magna Carta of Judges drafted by the CCJE, Strasbourg, 17 November 2010, it is stated in point 22 that 'it is not appropriate for a judge to be exposed, in respect of the purported exercise of judicial functions, to any personal liability, even by way of reimbursement of the state, except in a case of willful default'. This position is emphasised with regard to the provisions at issue in this case in the CCJE Opinion of 2019, point 39.

61 See Venice Commission Opinion No 924/2018, point 113, referring to CDL-AD (2016)015, Amicus Curiae Brief for the Constitutional Court on the Right of Recourse by the State against Judges, paragraphs 77 to 80. See also, for example, Recommendation CM/Rec(2010)12 of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to Member States on judges: independence, efficiency and responsibilities, adopted on 17 November 2010 at the 1098th meeting of the Ministers' Deputies, points 66 and 67 'the interpretation of the law, assessment of facts or weighing of evidence carried out by judges to determine cases should not give rise to civil or disciplinary liability, except in cases of malice and gross negligence. Only the state may seek to establish the civil liability of a judge through court action in the event that it has had to award compensation'.

62 Above, points 53 to 60 and 66 to 74 of this Opinion.

63 Above, point 98 of this Opinion.

64 It is worth noting that Article 991(1) of Law No 303/2004 requires double subjective intent (mens rea): not only that the judge knowingly infringes the applicable rules (intent with regard to the illegality), but by so doing pursues or accepts the injury of a person (intent in the form of dolus directus or indirectus) with regard to the specific illegal consequence pursued. On its face, that appears to be the standard of the criminal act of misuse of office.

65 See points 62 to 64 of this Opinion.

66 As also noted by the Venice Commission, since that ministry is in charge of the public treasury, it is not at all to be excluded that it may be the representative of the State in this kind of proceedings. See point 62 of this Opinion.

67 In the second phase, the appellate court of the domicile of the defendant, against which there is a right to appeal before the Înalta Curte de Casație şi Justiție (High Court of Cassation and Justice) — see above, point 10 of this Opinion.

68 Coherence and coordination, but not necessarily greater guarantees for structural independence. If there is the fear of potential misuse of certain procedures by certain parts of the political spectrum or even certain parts within the judiciary, to put all the decision-making power in the hands of just one central authority is, in terms of institutional design, a very bad idea. In a similar vein to what I already suggested in point 307 of the AFJR Opinion, in terms of the potential for structural independence, for someone with malicious intentions, it will be easier to control one or several disciplinary panels in the capital than 15 courts of appeal spread all over the country.

69 See also above, points 68 to 70 of this Opinion.

70 See points 267 to 269 of the AFJR Opinion.

71 Certainly, my suggested conclusion in points 274 to 278 of the AFJR Opinion cast doubts as to the ad interim appointment of the judicial chief inspector under Emergency Ordinance No 77/2018. That cannot, however, be read as stating that the institution itself is not impartial. Moreover, a statement of incompatibility of this or that structural element of a judicial system can hardly be understood as meaning that anything and everything connected to that institution and that element is then also automatically 'tainted'. With that logic, sooner or later, the entire judicial system could be declared incompatible 'by association'.

72 Points 242 to 244 of the AFJR Opinion, as well points 73 and 74 of this Opinion.

73 Judgment of 19 November 2019, A. K. and Others (Independence of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court) (C‑585/18, C‑624/18 and C‑625/18, EU:C:2019:982, paragraph 142).

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020230222ej2m000lq


News; International
Biden Urges Unity At Bucharest 9 Meeting; Putin Hosts China's Top Diplomat In Moscow; Ukraine Seeking At Least $10 Billion Loan Program From IMF; Africa's Largest Economy To Elect New Leader; Jamaica Lobbies For Tourism Support; Dash To the Bell. Aired 3-4p ET
Richard Quest, Frederik Pleitgen, Rahel Solomon, Poppy Harlow, Stephanie Busari
6176 字
2023 年 2 月 22 日
CNN International: Quest Means Business
CNNQMB
英文
Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[15:00:35]

RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: There is an hour to trade on Wall Street before the midweek session is over. The market is digesting Fed Minutes, and that is why you see a very sharp reversal of fortune, and whether or not the Fed Minutes justify, this is really a question we'll ask over the course of the hour.

The markets and the main events of the day: Wartime diplomacy continues in Europe. Two Presidents are shoring up support from allies in the conflict on Ukraine.

Starbucks chief executive, Howard Schultz, tells CNN he is leaving this time, no really leaving this time.

And Jamaica Tourism Minister will be with me. He wants to create a fund to help popular destinations in times of crisis.

Live from New York, midweek, Wednesday, February the 22nd. I'm Richard Quest and I mean business.

Good evening.

Both Presidents have been shoring up support of their allies in the war on Ukraine. On the US side, President Biden's on his way home, Air Force One is currently over the North Atlantic. You can see they're just about to leave Western Ireland.

The President and his team, probably discussing how to deliver on the promises he made to provide Ukraine with weapons and money and to keep the EU allies united.

Before he left Poland, President Biden met leaders of the eastern flank of NATO that called the Bucharest 9, and the President stressed the importance of sticking together.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Today, as we approach the one- year anniversary of Russia's further invasion, it is even more important that we continue to stand together, and I think this is proof of how strongly we feel.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

QUEST: Now, yesterday, President Putin gave his State of the Union to the nation, today he was meeting China's top diplomat. Wang Yi told President Putin that China and Russia need to remain flexible in the face of crisis and chaos.

Fred Pleitgen is in Moscow.

The two sides, the Russian and the Chinese. Now, at the at the meeting with Xi, of course, Xi basically told Putin don't even think of using nuclear. Does Yi come with a strong message of support, a weak message, or just feeling out the situation?

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I think with a strong message of support for the Russians, but I think that this meeting, Richard was even more important for Vladimir Putin, arguably than it was for Wang Yi.

I mean, I think it's quite telling that Vladimir Putin, you know, the leader of such a big country, obviously, the head of state of Russia, took the time to meet with Wang Yi and once again, also in front of camera said how important the relations between China and Russia are to the Russian Federation. Obviously, the Russians have been hit with a lot of sanctions over the past year, they rely on China really to reorient their entire economy now, but also, of course, to get technology as well. And so, a lot really depends on China as far as Russia is concerned.

As far as the Chinese are concerned, I think it was also quite important for Wang Yi because he said during his meeting with Vladimir Putin that obviously the relations between the two countries are very good, especially between Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin. But he also took a swipe at the United States saying that third countries would not interfere in the relations between China and Russia, obviously, that seem to pertain to the fact that the US has been voicing concern that the Chinese might think about providing lethal aid to the Russians for use in Ukraine -- Richard.

QUEST: Okay, but Fred, when we talk about the Chinese approach with the Russians, how far is this a case of my enemy's enemy is my friend?

PLEITGEN: Well, I think there is a certain degree of that. I think one of the things that we always have to keep in mind when we speak about the Chinese is that of course, the relations with Russia are very important to them and, you know, important in many ways and the personal relations are very good.

I think that China It also feels that Russia is more on side with China and obviously, they don't get a lot of the criticism that they get from the United States, but also to fuel China's big hunger for things like natural gas, for things like oil as well, and quite frankly, for another -- a lot of other raw materials.

[15:05:15]

However, of course, we also know that China also relies a great deal on relations with the United States and on relations in Europe. So you do have that balancing act that the Chinese continue to have, they obviously don't want to burn bridges with the US and with the West, and that's why when it comes to Ukraine, you can really feel how they go in there, and they say, in the end, they want a political solution to all of this. And you were mentioning Xi Jinping, obviously saying that nuclear weapons in any case are out of the question.

QUEST: Right. So, Fred, does China remain a break on Putin's worst excesses?

PLEITGEN: Well, I think to a certain extent it does, but I think that Vladimir Putin himself, you know, at this point in time is not looking to go that excessive. I mean, one of the things that we saw yesterday in his address to the Federal Assembly is that there was not really very much in rhetoric that would see Vladimir Putin ramping things up.

He didn't say something like that would be another big offensive, there was really subdued rhetoric, if you will. I think right now, the Russians themselves are sort of recalibrating a little bit. I think their military capabilities are in a pretty difficult state to at the moment. But of course, they do depend a lot on China and they do look towards what China is saying about the conflict in Ukraine.

They definitely understand that the Chinese do not want this to escalate any further, that the Chinese certainly don't want this to become a confrontation between Russia and the West, even though that is something that for instance, you hear a lot on Russian state TV, that that is exactly what the Russians think it is.

I do think that to that extent, the Chinese do keep that in check a little bit simply because the Russians economy is so dependent on China right now, just being on the ground here, it is surprising, Richard to see just in the past year, how Chinese products have for instance, on the roads, but in shops already replaced a lot of things that had been there from the West before.

QUEST: Fred Pleitgen, grateful for you, sir. Thank you.

War is expensive. Obviously, the price in terms of lives is primarily the most important aspect of it, but you can't ignore that in this war, particularly for Ukraine, the economy has shrunk by almost a third last year.

To help fill the gap, the West has offered Kyiv, $168 billion in various bits of financial aid. The Kiel Institute says less than half of that money has actually made it into Ukraine's coffers.

Earlier this week, the IMF Chief, Kristalina Georgieva met directly with President Zelensky in Kyiv. Ukraine is pushing for a loan package of at least $10 billion from the IMF. The Finance Minister spoke to Julia Chatterley about the where the money would go.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SERGII MARCHENKO, UKRAINIAN FINANCE MINISTER: Yes, we still need amount of around $10 billion to cover our budget needs for this year, as well as we need to start process of reconstruction of our economy.

And you mentioned conditions, we are ready to fulfill all necessary requirements and conditions to be able to move on this program.

First of all, our conditions can include necessary measures to stabilize our macroeconomic situation, create necessary environment for fiscal stability, for monetary stability, and certainly again, start discussing measures which can contain anticorruption measures.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

QUEST: A year into the war, Ukraine's biggest company by revenue Metinvest is adjusting to the grim new normal. It is a steel mining group. It's lost around half of its production assets because of the war. And that includes the Azovstal plant in Mariupol, which of course, we covered so extensively when it was attacked.

As one of Ukraine's largest employers, many of its workers have left to join the fighting or fled the country completely. The company is also dealing with factors like regular power cuts. Moscow has targeted Ukraine's energy infrastructure throughout the conflict and you can't make steel without energy.

Despite this Metinvest is supporting the war effort by making military equipment. The Chief Executive, Yuriy Ryzhenkov is with me, joins me from Kyiv.

We've spoken before, sir, and you've been very kind in updating us regularly on the situation. So tell me now how -- I mean first of all, how much you had pre in war and now today, how much steel are you able to make?

[15:10:00]

YURIY RYZHENKOV, CEO, METINVEST: Well, our steel production is down by about 70 percent if we're looking at year 2021 to the year 2022, and that level that is a sustainable level for now, given the logistical and market constraints.

QUEST: When you look at that production, how did you break it down? Because obviously, there is still the need in the west of the country for industrial steel and construction steel, and the like. And then, of course, in the military action, there's also the requirements. So how do you break down your production?

RYZHENKOV: Well, actually, we're still producing quite a lot of steel for experts, mostly to the European Union. So we're exporting now, about 50 percent of the steel that we produce in Ukraine, so it is not all being consumed in Ukraine.

But yes, as you rightly mentioned, over the last year, we introduced 24 new products, in fact, most of which are related to the military aid. So this is armored steel for bullet proof vests, this is special underground bunkers made out of steel, fortifications and so on and so forth.

QUEST: You talk about exports, I mean, that must be quite difficult, because you can't really guarantee, can you? I mean, power cuts and suddenly, your production has to stop. How are you managing to navigate that?

RYZHENKOV: Well, we have a long relationship with our clients. And we have a pretty well established sales network, especially in the European Union and we are trying to make arrangements for our clients. Whenever we are not able to deliver our steel, we always have a backup plan, Plan B, where we can buy from the market and deliver to our clients. So that's how we do it.

But also, we're trying to sell when the steel is already produced and crossed the border into the EU. So that's the second option, which we have.

QUEST: You've been critical of the way in which the sanctions regime against Russia has been constructed, arguably, and also executed. As the EU now looks to a 10th round of sanctions, what do you think needs to change there?

RYZHENKOV: Well, I'm not going to be able to talk about the whole kind of sanctions lists. I'm not a specialist in the sanction area, but I can talk about the sanctions which are related to the steel industry, steel and mining industry. And there, we still see significant loopholes, especially in supplies of semifinished goods like slabs.

There is a quarter which still within the sanction list, there is still a quarter of more than 3.6 million tons of slabs for Russians to supply to the EU, which is pretty much the normal amount they supplied before the war. So I, think this is something that the EU needs to look closer.

QUEST: And in terms of employees, first of all, let me inquire. I mean, I hope that you have not suffered too many losses, or that it hasn't been too heartbreaking, I think is probably the best way to do it. But also, you do have the problem of actually getting a workforce that's not either left the country or fighting for freedom.

RYZHENKOV: Well, you're right. We do have some real losses. More than 500 of our employees died during this this invasion, about 150 of them in the Armed Forces. Right now, actually, we have more than 7,000 of our employees serving in Ukrainian Armed Forces.

But yes, we do have difficulties with the workforce, especially in the cities, which are close to the frontline across Zaporizhzhia, but the key task which we set out for ourselves for this period is to keep the most qualified members of our workforce, to make sure that the team is there, and whenever we need to start working at full capacity, we have the available core team in place.

I think we're succeeding in that. We do have the core people in their places.

QUEST: Sir, forgive my naivete when -- I was expecting you to say, well, we've lost a handful of people or a handful of people have unfortunately perished, but did you just say more than 500 people of your employees have been killed?

RYZHENKOV: Unfortunately, this is the case. Yes.

QUEST: I will say -- there is nothing one can say after that, other than, thank you, sir, for joining us. And we will keep talking to you as this continues to put it all into perspective.

I'm grateful for your time, sir.

Just let that fact -- just let that pause for a moment.

The CEO of the steel company telling us at least 500 of his employees have been killed in the war, and 7,000 are fighting the war.

This QUEST MEANS BUSINESS.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:17:54]

QUEST: The latest Fed Minutes had a bit of volatility on Wall Street. You'll see it. Look at the Dow, and we are off 132 points.

Rahel Solomon is with me.

Rahel, while we look at this and we look at the S&P 500 and the NASDAQ, the triple stock, we will show that and you'll see, down so far, 136. NASDAQ is up just a tad, but it was much higher. Why? What happened?

RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Well, we got those Fed Minutes about an hour ago, and here is what we learned, Richard. Essentially, almost all Fed participants agreed and argued for a 25-basis-point rate hike, but that inflation remains unacceptably high and that there is more to go.

The reason why I would argue, Richard, we're not seeing even more of an impact in the market is because this data is pretty old. Right? This news is pretty old. Three weeks ago is a long time in today's economy.

Let's go through just the last few weeks and see what we've learned in terms of the US economy. February 1st is the last time we heard from Federal Reserve Chairman, officially. We have, of course heard from him since then, but officially that's the last time we heard from the Fed.

February 3rd, just a few days later, Richard is when we got that blockbuster January Jobs Report, three times what economists were expecting in terms of job growth. Then the next week, February 14th and 16th, we got two hotter than expected inflation surprises, inflation reports, both CPI and PPI, and then also that same week, we got strong retail sales.

So the question now, Richard, on everyone's mind is what does the Fed do with all of that data? The next time we hear from the Fed on March 21st and 22nd, I believe it is, do they take this as evidence that they were right all along? Or do they do more?

QUEST: They're going to do more, but why -- this is where I find the market to be perverse because having seen those numbers that you've just elegantly gone through, they should not have been surprised by the Fed Minutes saying they need substantially more evidence. What do they want? A man walking in front with a red flag?

[15:20:01]

SOLOMON: Richard, I saw an op-ed today that I think perfectly describes what you're talking about. The markets are looking for a miracle, what they need is a reality check, and I think that's what you're pointing to.

JPMorgan also pointing out in a recent note that the markets have never hit a low before the Fed was done raising rates, and we know that they are not done. So, I think it is optimism. I think, it is wishful thinking. I think it's a soft landing camp seeing this economic data and thinking, maybe we're out of the woods, but it would seem that we are not.

QUEST: I could have told you that months ago.

SOLOMON: Well then, maybe you should be doing a different job.

QUEST: I did. I did.

SOLOMON: You can be on an island somewhere, Richard.

QUEST: And Nouriel Roubini, who I was talking to yesterday, you're going to hear him on this program in a couple of days. Nouriel, basically very pessimistic.

SOLOMON: Yes, I mean, look, I think that the demarcation between the optimist and the pessimist are growing, right? I think it just really depends on what data you're looking at.

When I talked to Mohamed El-Erian last week, he is -- his base case is actually not a recession, but he thinks that inflation will stick around at four percent. It's a crazy economy. Trying to make sense of it is hard. Even Mohamed El-Erian said it's the toughest economy he's ever had to make sense of.

QUEST: Four percent. Do they stick up for or do they carry on down? Thank you, Rahel. Good to you see.

Now, Rahel was just talking about JPMorgan. Well, JPMorgan has announced it is restricting its employees' use of ChatGPT. The bank has made the decision to comply with limits on the use of third-party software. It comes over growing concerns over the viral AI chatbot. The service can respond with misinformation and frequently bizarre answers.

The President of Microsoft, Brad Smith says that it can quickly fix those emerging problems with artificial intelligence.

Now, you'll remember of course, it released an early version of its AI through its Bing search engine. It gave incorrect or sometimes threatening answers to users. Microsoft says it is continuing to improve the product, and Brad told me some of the issues can be fixed in a matter of hours.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BRAD SMITH, CEO, MICROSOFT: One of the things we've learned is that people, sometimes journalists do things with products that we never envisioned, certainly never intended, but the interesting thing about AI, is I think we can actually move very quickly.

We addressed some of these issues literally in a matter of hours, and if we can continue to do that, if we can continue to put an ethical approach to AI at the center of everything we do, I think that should give us all a lot of confidence that this technology has a very bright future in terms of what it can do for people.

QUEST: Final question: Elon Musk at World Government Summit in Dubai last week, you might have seen his comments, basically saying there is going to need to be more guardrails. He is more concerned.

I know you're concerned, Brad, but how much more regulation do you think there has got to be?

SMITH: I think when we look at where AI is going, it really should start with the companies that are making it like, Microsoft and OpenAI taking steps quickly, identify problems, find solutions. Eventually, we'll get to the point where governments are likely to watch or reinforce those so that everybody is responsible.

But if we want to move fast, and we should, let's let those of us who are creating this technology act responsibly, find solutions. It gives everybody the opportunity to learn from this. Everybody has the opportunity to use their voice. It is, I think, our responsibility to listen to them.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

QUEST: That's Brad Smith.

Howard Schultz, the Chief Executive of Starbucks is leaving the company for the third time. He talked to CNN's Poppy Harlow about his retirement plans, and the push inside Starbucks to form a union.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: You've run Starbucks three times.

HOWARD SCHULTZ, INTERIM CEO, STARBUCKS: Yes.

HARLOW: You've left Starbucks three times.

SCHULTZ: Yes.

HARLOW: Is this the final time? Full stop.

SCHULTZ: Yes.

HARLOW: You're ready to let go.

SCHULTZ: I'm ready to let go. I'm ready for the next chapter of my life. I don't know what that's going to be, but I'm not coming back to Starbucks.

HARLOW (voice over): A defining moment for the man and a defining moment for the company he built.

SCHULTZ: When I think back 1987, we basically 11 stores, a hundred people working for the company and a dream.

HARLOW (voice over): Starbucks' green and white siren would come to stand for one of the most progressive companies in the world.

(GROUP protesting.)

HARLOW (voice over): That legacy is now being tested, in what Howard Schultz describes as a battle for hearts and minds.

(GROUP protesting.)

HARLOW (voice over): As he looks to step down as CEO this spring.

SCHULTZ: I came back this past year because the company really did lose its way and it lost its way culturally.

I'd be the first to say the union showed up because Starbucks was not leading in a way that was consistent with its history in terms of being a values-based company and I came back to basically restore those values.

[15:25:10]

HARLOW (voice over): After nearly running for President following his departure from Starbucks in 2017.

SCHULTZ: We need to restore dignity to the White House.

HARLOW (voice over): Schultz returned last year confronting a growing unionization movement.

(on camera): You've said that unions are contrary to Starbucks' vision.

SCHULTZ: Yes.

HARLOW: And that's your vision?

SCHULTZ: Well, it's not only my vision. I think the 51-year history of Starbucks is a vision, a collective group of people that believe in doing everything to create value for our people, so that we can create value for shareholders, and we've done that.

HARLOW: Why do you think unions are contrary to the vision of Starbucks?

SCHULTZ: Okay, yes. Let's first examine that unions in America for the most part have existed and have succeeded in the past, because of companies that did nefarious things on the backs of their people, that they put their people last instead of first.

(PEOPLE cheering.)

SCHULTZ: Now, let's look at Starbucks. Starbucks employs 450,000 people around the world, 250,000 people in the US in our stores. We provide unprecedented benefits, not because a union told us to, but because the conscience of the company and my own life story is based on trying to build a company that my father, a blue-collar worker was not given -- not afforded those rights.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

QUEST: Howard Schultz talking to Poppy Harlow.

The countdown to Nigeria's presidential election is winding down. The voting begins on Saturday. Stephanie Busari will be with me, the issues driving people to the polls.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

QUEST: Nigeria's presidential election on Saturday could be the largest vote ever held in Africa. It is a close race. There are no clear frontrunners. The current President is term limited and 18 candidates are vying to become the next President.

[15:30:19]

The incumbent, obviously, is not going to be one of them. Among the favorites, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the candidate of Buhari's party. And the campaign is taking place in the midst of a cash shortage, high inflation and rising tariff attacks. Stephanie Busari is in Lagos.

Good evening to you. Right. So. There is no front-runner.

So who is the front-runner?

STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR AFRICA EDITOR: Good evening, Richard. That's the million dollar question. Different experts, depending on who you speak, to have a different prediction.

But what is exciting for analysts here and experts, is that, for the first time, there is a third candidate to break the two party domination in elections since 1999. This time, a man by the name of Peter Obi is galvanizing the youth vote. They are solidly behind him.

And there is a movement behind him that is gaining momentum. We did speak to Peter Obi and also talked to people on the ground to find out what the main issues are. Take a listen, Richard.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BUSARI (voice-over): Nigeria's political future hangs in the balance, with sitting president Mohammad Buhari standing aside, after two terms, voters will decide on his successor on February 25th. Three candidates lead the race.

Ruling party veteran Bola Tinubu, whose campaign slogan, (speaking foreign language), translates to, "It is my turn."

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BOLA AHMED TINUBU, NIGERIAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am proud to be your candidate.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BUSARI (voice-over): Former vice president Atiku Abubakar, who's run for presidency on five previous occasions and lost each time.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ATIKU ABUBAKAR, NICARAGUAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: No party will be marginalized.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BUSARI (voice-over): An outlier candidate who told me he enjoys a large social media following and has galvanized the country's young people, many of whom are still angry over the 2020 Lekki toll gate shooting, when, according to a judicial panel, the Nigerian army opened fire on armed protesters.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DEBO ADEBAYO, NIGERIAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What this young generation of people want to do now is translate their anger into electoral participation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BUSARI (voice-over): With almost 40 percent of the registered 93 million voters under 34 years old, the youth vote could prove crucial; 61-year-old Obi hopes to break the two party system, which has dominated Nigerian politics since the end of military rule in 1999.

His backers make their (INAUDIBLE) say he is the only candidate (ph) with integrity. His critics, however, one man alone cannot carry an unknown political party.

BUSARI: Many people have said you would be easily impeached as president, because of your lack of structure.

PETER OBI, NIGERIAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE (from captions): That has happened to me before.

BUSARI: It happened to you before?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (from captions): So I know how to deal with it, how to navigate it.

BUSARI: How will you deal with it if you become president and you are impeached?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (from captions): Do the right thing.

BUSARI: Which is?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (from captions): Govern with the people.

BUSARI (voice-over): Earlier this month, a predictive poll gave the lead to Obi in a high turnout scenario. However, in a low turnout scenario, Tinubu and his ruling party are expected to prevail.

MICHAEL FAMOROTI, CO-FOUNDER AND HEAD OF INTELLIGENCE, STEARS: It's time for the what about that looks like and I think that is probably most reflected in the levels of engagement that we have seen, heading all to the polls, which are unparalleled, again.

BUSARI (voice-over): Nigerians will be cautiously hopeful that whoever wins will tackle the key issues, security and the economy. Nigeria's economy is teetering on the brink of financial collapse. Skyrocketing public debt and criminals stealing hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil every day, from the nation's primary source of income.

And a recent attempt to redesign a currency led to a cash crisis and widespread frustration, leading to people queuing for hours to get their own money.

BUSARI: Ultimately, the winner had to achieve the highest number of votes nationwide and receive 25 percent of the votes cast in 24 of the 36 states. If not, there will be a second round runoff within 21 days, between the top two candidates.

It's the first time since Nigeria began democratic rule that none of the candidates is an incumbent or former military ruler.

[15:35:00]

So whatever the outcome, Africa's most populous country will soon welcome a new dawn.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BUSARI: Richard, many saying that Nigerian politics is coming of age and embracing a new form of democracy. Because of some of the reasons highlighted in that report, the lack of an incumbent, the lack of a former military ruler, they're saying that there would be a new face of a new type of leader, if someone like Peter Obi gets into power, for example.

A lot of people are excited because he doesn't follow the typical African big man leader of politics. He carries his own brand for example. He flies economy and he has a very no-frills approach. People are quite excited about that, Richard.

QUEST: Stephanie Busari, we will be following the election. We will talk more, thank you.

Jamaica said it's time for a fund to support tourism in tough times. According to the minister from Jamaica, the country's tourism minister says nations that rely on tourism need help bouncing back from disruptions like pandemics.

The minister is with me now, Edmund Bartlett, for Jamaica's tourism.

Foreign minister, it's good to see you.

And what exactly -- where will the money come from, for this fund?

And who will spend it?

EDMUND BARTLETT, JAMAICAN TOURISM MINISTER: Firstly, Richard, this is a very innovative approach, I think. The money will come from the tourists. All the 1.4 million and increasing number of visitors who going to destinations for one purpose, to consume.

And so as you consume, you leave a tip behind. This is a voluntary contribution that you are making, in order to put your own personal responsibility to the fact that you have to be resilient because sustainability on planet Earth is our objective.

(CROSSTALK)

QUEST: What would this money be used for?

BARTLETT: This money will be used for mitigation, for adaptation, for the development of capacity within countries to know more about disruptions. Firstly, how to track them and how to mitigate them. And then how to manage them and then how to recover and recover quickly and then to thrive afterwards.

Now this is what enables countries like Japan, for example, to respond and bounce back quickly after disruptions. But at the same time, cultures like my neighbor, Haiti, for 20 years, they are still struggling to recover from earthquakes.

So what we are saying is that if we enable these countries to have the resources to firstly educate and to provide knowledge information and then to be able to communicate effectively, when these disruptions come and how to navigate them then that we are in a better place for quickly recovery and bounceback.

QUEST: So this is more about getting countries into a position to handle, it rather than aid for example for rebuilding, restoration or whatever.

BARTLETT: Well, the fact is, when this fund accrues (ph), as it will, it will enable that possibility, too. So that you can use elements of it for preparation, to enable resilient building in the railway (ph), that is, to build better, to enable quality materials and to develop the infrastructure that will enable us to (INAUDIBLE) --

(CROSSTALK)

BARTLETT: -- when different types of disruptions hit us. So it has a dual role, Richard, in that it enables for the development of capacity.

And then secondly, it enables also for physical development, to enable a response on a timely and quick basis when disruptions of various types hit.

(CROSSTALK)

BARTLETT: -- is not going to be subject to the multilateral stringencies and rules of that game, where some poorer countries can't match up to what is required. Because every single physical who comes into that country would contribute immediately. And that fund would into the country's coffers for that purpose and that purpose only, we hope.

QUEST: Sir, briefly, finally, you are having a good year. Your numbers are up. And it looks like it is going to be a bounceback here for you.

BARTLETT: Oh, yes, absolutely. So far, for the year, we are 15 percent ahead of 2019 in arrivals. And earnings are running closer to 30 percent of that period.

[15:40:00]

And that is a very strong response, I believe. And that has resulted originally because of the resilience that Jamaica has shown and the fact that we, during the pandemic, had good sense of what to do, even against the background of the uncertainties that prevailed at the time.

Because we had established early, as you know, the global tourism resilience and crisis management center at our university. And we used the information and knowledge that we're gaining about --

(CROSSTALK)

BARTLETT: -- to quickly move into the motion of getting the protocols right and (INAUDIBLE) our people so that they could respond well and fortunately navigate it quickly through the difficulties.

QUEST: It is always good to see you, Minister. Thank you.

And that's QUEST MEANS BUSINESS for now. At the top of the hour, we will have a dash for the closing bell, coming up next, it is "MARKETPLACE EUROPE."

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(MUSIC PLAYING)

("MARKETPLACE EUROPE")

[15:58:35]

QUEST: Hello, I'm Richard Quest. Together we're going to have a dash to the closing bell, just two minutes from now.

The Fed minutes have made it clear that the inflation fight is far from over and the Dow is heading for quite a thumping loss. Not as bad as it was when it saw the minutes. It was up around 334 points or so.

But you can see the sentiment changed when the minutes came out at 2 pm in New York. So we're off the best part of 100 points. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq, now that has eked out a small gain but it was up much more so that. The air came out of the balloon.

E.U. officials are discussing new sanctions on Russia. The CEO of Metinvest, the Ukrainian steel and mining group, said that current measures can be tightened.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

YURIY RYZHENKOV, CEO, METINVEST: But I can talk about the sanctions that are related to the steel industry, steel and mining industry. And there, we still see significant loopholes, especially in supplies of (INAUDIBLE) goods like slabs.

There is a quota, which still, within the sanction list, there is still a quota of more than 3.6 million tons of slabs for Russians to supply to the E.U. which is pretty much the normal amount they supplied before the war. So I think this is something that the E.U. needs to look at closer.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

QUEST: If we look closer at the Dow components of the day, you see Salesforce is at the top. It's up about 1 percent, you don't often see that. Home Depot has recovered some of the losses from yesterday's sharp fall.

And Intel has slightly fallen over today, slashing its stock dividend by two thirds. Walmart is down nearly 3 percent, warning investors yesterday a bit difficult here ahead.

END

Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNQMB0020230223ej2m00001


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10824
Justina Vaišvilaitė
5549 字
2023 年 2 月 23 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10824 (95230) THURSDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 23

 

GROWING CONSENSUS TO MEET NATO 2% TARGET MAY CALL FOR TRANSITIONAL PERIOD – NAUSĖDA

 

Vilnius, February 23 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda says there is a growing consensus within NATO that its members should raise their defence spending and agree on a funding minimum of 2% of gross domestic product (GDP), but some of the countries may need a transitional period.

The president said that after Wednesday’s meeting with US President Joe Biden and NATO’s eastern flank leaders at the so-called Bucharest Nine summit in Warsaw.

"We are definitely moving in the right direction. I am hearing more and more countries saying that the 2% defence spending target should no longer be seen as a ceiling, but rather as a floor,” President Nausėda told Žinių radijas on Thursday.

The head of state believes that the NATO summit in Vilnius in July may also reach a consensus for establish a certain transitional period for the countries that allocate considerably less to national defence to adapt to the new requirements.

"Perhaps there could be a short transitional period for those countries that are still lagging far behind in this respect, but anchoring the principle itself in Vilnius would be very welcome,” Nausėda noted, refusing to go into details on the countries in question.

It is very important to achieve a kind of pressure from the majority of the countries on the minority to show international solidarity in defence spending rates, the president said.

The NATO summit in Vilnius will be held on 11-12 July 2023, with a focus on strengthening the Alliance’s collective defence and deterrence and increasing support to Ukraine.

At the beginning of 2023, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg announced that a renegotiation of defence spending would be held as some members wanted to increase the current minimum level.

NATO members are now being asked to bring defence spending to at least 2% of GDP by 2024.

Lithuanian leaders have also repeatedly stressed that Alliance members should agree on a "floor” of 2% of GDP at the Vilnius summit.

Lithuania’s defence budget currently accounts for 2.52% of GDP.

 

NAUSĖDA HOPES THAT FINLAND AND SWEDEN WILL SOON JOIN NATO

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda on Wednesday paid an official visit to Poland to attend the Bucharest Nine summit with US President Joe Biden and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. The head of state hopes that both Finland and Sweden will become new members of NATO in the near future.

Nausėda said speaking to reporters that Finland and Sweden do not necessarily have to join NATO simultaneously. However, he hopes that Türkiye will ratify Sweden’s NATO membership after the general election in June and that two new members of the Alliance will be at the Summit in Vilnius in July.

President Nausėda added that Hungary would too ratify NATO membership of Finland and Sweden in the near future.

"It seems that Hungary will soon ratify the accession of both countries as parliament intends to consider this already next week. The Hungarian president is optimistic about the ratification,” said Nausėda.

 

NATO’S EASTERN BORDERS MUST BE AS SECURE AS POSSIBLE – NAUSĖDA IN WARSAW

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – NATO allies need to do their utmost to help Ukraine win the war against Russia as soon as possible, because time is critical at the moment, President Gitanas Nausėda underscored in Warsaw today, addressing US President Joe Biden and the leaders of NATO’s eastern flank countries, the so-called Bucharest Nine, said the presidency.

"The longer this war continues, the greater the challenges for Ukrainians and for all of us – lives are lost, ammunition stocks are running low, and the enemy is mobilising its allies. If Russia succeeds in achieving its goals in Ukraine, brutal aggression will continue. No illusions about that,” the Lithuanian leader underlined, calling on NATO to continue to urgently provide Ukraine with all the arms and ammunition it needs.

President Gitanas Nausėda thanked the United States of America and personally President Joe Biden for the leadership in providing comprehensive assistance to Ukraine and the resolve to continue to do so as long as necessary, and for the role the United States played in ensuring the security of the Baltic region and the entire eastern flank of NATO.

"The US role in ensuring the security of the Baltic region is enormous, and the deployment of US military forces in Lithuania is the strongest deterrent in this challenging security environment. Lithuania has always been an advocate of a strong transatlantic bond and its irreplaceability,” the president added, stressing the importance of even greater involvement and presence of NATO in the region.

Gitanas Nausėda outlined to the US and the Bucharest Nine leaders the main objectives of the NATO Summit in Vilnius this July, namely, the adoption of new regional defence plans, the reinforcement of regional air defence, and the commitment to increase the Alliance’s defence spending.

"It is the ambition of all of us to make NATO as strong as possible and its eastern borders as secure as possible,” Gitanas Nausėda pointed out.

 

LANDSBERGIS TO ATTEND UN EVENTS IN SUPPORT OF UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, February 23 (ELTA) – On 23-24 February, at the headquarters of the United Nations in New York, Lithuania’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis will be attending high-level events in support of Ukraine ahead of the anniversary of Russia’s large-scale war against this country, the Foreign Ministry said.

Landsbergis will speak at a special session of the UN General Assembly, which will adopt a resolution proposed by Ukraine, defining the principles of peace-building in Ukraine.

During the visit, the foreign minister will meet with United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres to discuss relevant UN operational issues.

In New York, Landsbergis also plans to attend a meeting of the UN Security Council on Ukraine, other events and bilateral meetings.

 

LEGAL MECHANISM TO CONFISCATE RUSSIAN ASSETS ABROAD NEEDED, FORMIN TELLS UK FOREIGN SECRETARY

 

Vilnius, February 23 (ELTA) – On Wednesday, Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis met with the United Kingdom’s (UK) Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Development, James Cleverly, in London.

In the meeting, the officials stressed that Russia remains the greatest threat to the security of Europe and that all efforts must be made to ensure that Ukraine stands up to Moscow’s aggression.

"Our determination and will to stop and defeat Russia in Ukraine remains as strong as it was a year ago, and we must maintain and increase our support to Ukraine – no fatigue, no relaxation,” Landsbergis said.

Lithuania’s head of diplomacy and the UK foreign secretary discussed Russia’s responsibility for aggression and crimes against humanity.

"It is necessary not only to freeze Russian assets abroad, but also to find a legal mechanism to confiscate them and use them for the reconstruction of Ukraine,” Minister Landsbergis highlighted.

The ministers also spoke about the NATO Summit in Vilnius on 11-12 July 2023.

"The Eastern flank expects tangible progress in the implementation of the Madrid Summit decisions and the strengthening of deterrence in our countries, while Ukraine expects a real practical and political push in the direction of Euro-Atlantic integration,” Landsbergis told Cleverly.

 

LITHUANIAN LASER LABORATORY TO BE ESTABLISHED IN TAIWAN

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian delegation led by Karolis Žemaitis, deputy minister of the economy and innovation, is strengthening cooperation in the laser and industrial fields in Taiwan, reports the Ministry of the Economy and Innovation.

The Lithuanian Laser Association has signed an agreement with the Industrial Technology Research Institute of Taiwan (ITRI) to establish a joint laser technology research and innovation centre in Taiwan. The laser centre is tentatively scheduled to open in autumn this year.

"Our mutual economic relations with Taiwan are steadily developing and 2023 should be a breakthrough year. We aim to accelerate bilateral cooperation between technology companies, to make better use of Lithuania’s potential in information and communication and financial technologies, and to encourage more Taiwanese technology companies to set up and invest in Lithuania,” said Deputy Minister Žemaitis.

Gediminas Račiukaitis, president of the Lithuanian Laser Association, believes that this is a way for Lithuanian laser companies to enter the chain of development and deployment of equipment for the semiconductor and electronics industries.

"Together with ITRI and in contact with large integrators, we will combine our competences and knowledge to solve current and future problems of the end-users of the technology,” says Račiukaitis.

The Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Confederation of National Industry and Commerce (CNAIC), and will sign a MoU with the Confederation of National Industries (CNFI) on Friday.

The agreements foresee sharing information with their members on the business interests of Taiwanese and Lithuanian companies, suggesting potential partners, organising exchange visits for business cooperation, and assisting in trade or investment projects in their own or third countries. It is also planned to exchange relevant information to create a favourable environment for trade and investment between Lithuania and Taiwan.

During his visit to Taiwan, Deputy Minister Žemaitis discussed with Chern-Chyi Chen, deputy minister for economic affairs of Taiwan, and Ning Yehu, deputy minister for digitisation of Taiwan, joint projects that would diversify supply chains, enhance cyber security and business competitiveness, and enable Lithuania to become a gateway for Taiwanese technologies to the European Union market.

"Technological cooperation, creation of common supply chains, search for synergies between businesses creating high added value - these are the directions that our business should think about when cooperating with Taiwan,” says Žemaitis.

The development of mutual economic relations is facilitated by the fact that the Trade Representative of the Republic of Lithuania started working in Taipei in September 2022, and the Lithuanian Trade Representative Office in Taipei was officially opened on 7 November 2022.

Lithuania’s trade with Taiwan grew by more than 50% in 2022 to over EUR 167 million.

 

MINISTER URGES LITHUANIAN TENNIS AND FOOTBALL FEDERATIONS NOT TO COMPETE AGAINST RUSSIAN AND BELARUSIAN ATHLETES

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – Amid recent public outcry over participation of Russian and Belarusian tennis players in a tournament in Lithuania and the upcoming futsal game between Lithuania and Belarus, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Jurgita Šiugždinienė notes that the Government has strongly recommended not to invite Russian and Belarusian athletes to Lithuania due to ongoing war in Ukraine.

"This is a clear decision based on values and morals, which the majority of our federations has adopted. Now we are deciding over the tennis federation and the football federation,” the minister told reporters Wednesday.

According to her, executive committees of these federations are yet to express their standpoint about participating in competitions with Russian and Belarusian athletes who compete under a neutral flag.

She stressed that federations are independent organisations but it would be crucial for them to demonstrate a firm stance and not to compete against Russian and Belarusian athletes due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and the role Belarus plays in it.

Furthermore, the minister noted that the Government would not fund international competitions in Lithuania if Russian or Belarusian participants take part. Funding of federations for 2024 might be reviewed as well.

The minister called on Lithuania’s tennis and football federations to join coalitions with other countries and pressure international bodies not to allow Russian and Belarusian athletes to compete.

Lithuania’s futsal team will play against Belarus in March but on a neutral stage in Armenia. The Lithuanian Football Federation remarked that international bodies have issued strong warnings about sanctions for refusal to play.

 

129 FREIGHT WAGONS WITH CARBAMIDE WERE IMPORTED FROM BELARUS IN 2023 – LTG CARGO

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – Amid reports that fertilisers from a sanctioned Belarusian company might have been imported to Lithuania, Lithuanian Railways’ freight company LTG Cargo confirmed that 129 freight wagons with carbamide entered the country in January-February 2023.

"62 wagons with carbamide fertiliser were transported to Lithuania in January 2023 and 67 in February,” the news agency ELTA learned from LTG Cargo communication partner Kotryna Dzikaraitė.

She noted that carbamide was not imported from Belarus to Lithuania in January-March 2022, but 463 wagons were later transported in April-December 2022.

The representative of LTG Cargo said that in 2022-2023 102 wagons of carbamide were transported to Klaipėda, 147 to Vilkaviškis, 108 to Pakruojis, 94 to Kėdainiai and 141 to other stations.

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis says the effectiveness of schemes how some Belarusian companies seek to circumvent sanctions is limited. According to him, Lithuanian authorities often succeed in stopping sanctioned goods from entering Lithuania, but cargo verification procedures will be stepped up further nonetheless.

"The system is working. If someone sneaked in once, even if they sneaked in twice, they will not the third time,” Skuodis told reporters Wednesday.

The minister stated that sanction evasion schemes are uncovered every day and therefore urged certain politicians to stop claiming that sanctioned goods may pass through the border freely.

The minister emphasised that in 2022, compared with the period before sanctions, Belarusian freight decreased dramatically from 17 million to just 4 million tonnes.

Skuodis added that cargo verification procedures are being tightened and in the future freight would be transported to the country only after fully ascertaining that sanctioned goods are not being imported.

The minister also mentioned that he supports the proposal to establish a governmental coordinator for sanction enforcement.

As reported, journalistic centre Siena on Monday published a journalistic investigation on Belarusian fertiliser import to Lithuania. It has uncovered mechanisms that are being used to circumvent sanctions. It is said that carbamide, whose sole producer in Belarus is Grodno Azot, is transported to the Bulk Cargo Terminal (BKT) in Klaipėda, which is partially owned by Belarusian state company Belaruskalij. Both Grodno Azot and Belaruskalij are sanctioned by the EU. The report states that EU sanctions are imposed on Grodno Azot but not on carbamide it produces, whereas other Belarusian companies that are not on sanctions lists are named as fertiliser suppliers in official documents, even though Grodno Azot is the only producer of carbamide fertiliser in Belarus.

Lithuanian Railways and the Ministry of Transport and Communications have addressed the Prosecutor General’s Office to determine the origin of carbamide that was brought to BKT.

 

LTG IS TESTING UKRAINIAN-MADE LOCOMOTIVE SAFETY SYSTEM

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – Lithuanian Railways (LTG) continues to take consistent action to reduce its ties to Russia and Belarus. One of the steps is switching from the Russian-made KLUB-U Unified Integrated Train Protection System to other alternatives.

A new locomotive safety system, made by Ukrainian manufacturer Impuls, is being tested on four LTG Cargo locomotives. Taking into account testing results, LTG group will sign contracts with selected suppliers.

It is planned that the first units of new locomotive safety systems will be delivered to LTG next year, while the installation of new equipment should be completed by the end of 2026.

The Russian-made KLUB-U is still being used on 130 locomotives. To ensure the security of data transferred on this system, its remote access functionality was deactivated in 2017, meaning that it is impossible to take over control of a train or obtain information about its location.

The National Cyber Security Centre (NKSC) confirmed in 2018 that Lithuanian Railways took adequate action in risk management.

News website lrytas.lt reported earlier this week that Lithuanian Railways launched a EUR 2.2 million tender for maintenance of the KLUB-U train control system, even though five years ago Parliament’s Committee on National Security and Defence concluded that it was incompatible with Lithuania’s national security interests.

Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas told the news agency ELTA on Wednesday that LTG had to phase out the Russian-made KLUB-U but this has not been done yet for some reason even though plans were in place.

A representative of Lithuanian Railways told the public radio LRT the same day that train control systems would be replaced based on a concrete plan but existing equipment has to be maintained regardless.

 

NO ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSINGS LAST DAY – VSAT

 

Vilnius, February 23 (ELTA) – The State Border Guard Service (VSAT) continues to observe no illegal border crossing attempts in Lithuania.

Meanwhile, Latvia reported it had denied entry to 19 foreign nationals trying to cross into the country illegally from Belarus on Wednesday.

Polish border guards pushed back 48 irregular migrants on Tuesday.

According to the VSAT, this year, by 22 February, 357 migrants tried to access Lithuania from Belarus illegally.

Since 3 August 2021, when the VSAT was instructed to turn away illegal migrants attempting to cross the state border at unauthorised locations, more than 19 thousand migrants have been denied entry from Belarus to Lithuania.

 

INVALDA INVL SHAREHOLDERS APPROVE DEAL WITH ŠIAULIŲ BANKAS TO MERGE THEIR RETAIL BUSINESSES

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – The shareholders of Invalda INVL, the leading investment management and life insurance group in the Baltic region, on Wednesday approved a deal with Šiaulių Bankas to merge their retail businesses. That same day, a meeting of the shareholders of Šiaulių Bankas also approved the merger, Invalda INVL said in a press release.

"Having obtained shareholders’ approval, we are moving forward with the merger of the retail businesses of Invalda INVL and Šiaulių Bankas. The two institutions’ teams are already hard at work so that the transaction strengthens the bank and creates more added value for the existing retail customers of the bank and INVL,” Darius Šulnis, the president of Invalda INVL, says.

"We believe that a renewed and growing bank will be much more attractive to institutional and private investors, and that this transaction will benefit the shareholders of Šiaulių Bankas and Invalda INVL,” Darius Šulnis adds.

Invalda INVL and Šiaulių Bankas signed an agreement on the merger of part of their retail businesses on 22 November 2022. The equity value of the retail business merger transaction is EUR 40.16 million.

To finalise the transaction, Šiaulių Bankas will make a targeted issue of shares for purchase by the Invalda INVL group at the price of EUR 0.645 per share. Completion of the deal would give Invalda INVL 9.39% of the share capital of Šiaulių Bankas, and the second- and third-pillar pension funds and mutual funds that Invalda INVL currently manages in Lithuania as well as its life insurance business would become part of the Šiaulių Bankas group.

Under a supplementary agreement signed on 31 January 2023, the life insurance business in Latvia and Estonia may be excluded from the transaction at Invalda INVL’s discretion and with the prior approval of Šiaulių Bankas’s Management Board and Supervisory Council, provided that this part of the business does not remain within the Invalda INVL group after completion of the transaction.

After the closing of this and other announced planned share acquisitions, the Invalda INVL group’s equity stake in Šiaulių Bankas would increase from 8% at present to approximately 20%.

Completion of the merger of Šiaulių Bankas’s and Invalda INVL’s retail businesses is planned in late 2023. The Lithuanian Competition Council’s permission to complete the transaction has already been obtained, but other approvals of regulatory bodies are also required.

Following this transaction, the Invalda INVL group will remain active in the management of private equity and alternative investments, provide Family Office services in the Baltic countries, and manage second- and third-pillar pension funds in Latvia.

The extraordinary general meeting of Invalda INVL’s shareholders also approved extending collaboration with the audit firm KPMG Baltic, selecting it to audit the company’s financial statements for the year 2022 and envisaging the possibility of appointing the firm to audit the financial statements for this year and/or 2024.

 

MEDICINOS BANKAS NO LONGER ON SALE – MEDIA

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – After two unsuccessful attempts to sell Medicinos bankas, the Lithuanian capital bank is no longer on sale, reports business news website Verslo žinios.

Head of Administration of Medicinos bankas Marius Arlauskas has announced that the shareholder is no longer considering the sale of the bank.

Konstantinas Karosas owns 90% of the bank’s shares, while the remaining part is owned by the Virgin Islands registered company Western Petrolium.

In 2021, AAA Capital, a company of Marius Jakulis Jason planned to acquire the bank but the transaction was terminated at the end of 2022.

Earlier, it was also reported that Growmore Group was willing to purchase the bank but the deal was not completed either.

 

UBER CLOSES ITS SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE IN LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, February 22 (ELTA) – US registered company Uber Technologies has initiated the closure of Vilnius registered company Uber Lithuania Software and Development.

The announcement was made on Wednesday in the information report issued by the Register of Legal Entities.

Sebastien Serge Dupont was appointed the liquidator of the company.

In 2021, Uber Lithuania Software and Development posted EUR 6.37 million in revenue and EUR 234,000 in net profit.

Data provided by the State Social Insurance Fund Board (Sodra) indicates that the company had 46 employees as of 17 February and in December 2022 paid the average monthly gross salary of EUR 7,483.

In January, the company informed the Employment Service about group layoff of 39 employees.

Another company, Uber Lithuania, also operates in the country and ride-hailing services will continue to be provided in Vilnius.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Thursday, February 23

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to participate in the opening of Vilnius Book Fair (exhibition centre Litexpo, Laisvės 5, Vilnius, 10:00);

-- -- to participate in the presentation of the project for reissuing the newspaper Aušra (exhibition centre Litexpo, Laisvės 5, Vilnius, 11:00);

-- -- to participate in the event "Mes kartu – Ми разом – We are together” at the Ukrainian Centre to mark the anniversary of the war in Ukraine (Ševčenkos 31, Vilnius, 18:00).

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to participate in the opening of Vilnius Book Fair (exhibition centre Litexpo, Laisvės 5, Vilnius, 10:00);

-- -- to meet with the French delegation led by Thomas Gassilloud, chair of the Defence Committee of the French National Assembly (Seimas, 12:00);

-- -- to visit the company Kietaviškių gausa (Kareivonių village, Elektrėnai, 14:00);

-- -- to visit the company Ignitis gamyba (Eletrinės 21, Elektrėnai, 15:00);

-- -- to visit Elektrėnai Hospital (Taikos 8, Elektrėnai, 16:00);

-- -- to meet with the public (Culture Centre, Trakų 7, Vievis, 17:30).

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to give an interview to the radio station Žinių radijas (8:05);

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to hold a working meeting (10:00);

-- -- to hold a working meeting (11:00);

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (15:00).

MINISTRIES

-- Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis to visit New York, the USA;

-- Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas to meet with Thomas Gassilloud, chair of the Defence Committee of the French National Assembly (14:30);

-- Minister of the Economy and Innovation Aušrinė Armonaitė to attend the time capsule burial ceremony of the Pon.bike factory (10:00);

-- Minister of Culture Simonas Kairys to attend Vilnius Book Fair (10:00);

-- Minister of Agriculture Kęstutis Navickas to pay a visit to Dubai, the United Arab Emirates.

-- END.

 

ESTONIAN PARLT IS HOSTING DELEGATION OF GERMAN BUNDESTAG GERMANY-BALTIC FRIENDSHIP GROUP

 

Tallinn, February 22 (ELTA) – President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas and members of the National Defence Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and the Estonia-Germany Parliamentary Group met the Germany-Baltic Friendship Group of the German Bundestag, chaired by Alexander Graf Lambsdorff, reports the Estonian Parliament’s Press Service.

Ratas described bilateral relations with Germany as very important in the turbulent world. "Estonia greatly appreciates your presence in air policing, as well as your work as the framework nation for the NATO battlegroup in Lithuania,” Ratas emphasised. He acknowledged the efforts of the German government and parliament in offering continuous support to Ukraine. "Emergency military aid must continue,” Ratas stressed.

He underlined the importance of the close cooperation between the two countries in the parliamentary framework.

The guests expressed their eagerness to be present at the flag hoisting on Toompea on 24 February, when Estonia is celebrating its 105th anniversary. Ratas evoked the second event that this day symbolised in connection with the aggression in Ukraine.

Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Andres Sutt said that keeping the allied unity plays a key role in supporting Ukraine. "Ukraine must win the war and the perpetrators of crimes of aggression and war must stand trial,” Sutt said. "It is in the interests of the whole free world that concrete agreements are reached at the NATO Vilnius summit on Ukraine’s accession path to NATO membership.”

The parties discussed the wider impacts of this war of aggression and concluded that the war against Ukraine was a war against us all. "Interparliamentary relations play a crucial role in ensuring that the allied space remains strong,” underlined Sutt who is also the Chair of the Estonia-Germany Parliamentary Group.

The Germany-Baltic Friendship Group of the German Bundestag includes Alexander Graf Lambsdorff (Free Democratic Party), Bettina Hagedorn (Social Democratic Party), Markus Grübel (Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union in Bavaria), Hanna Steinmüller (Alliance 90/The Greens), and Gereon Bollmann (Alternative for Germany).

 

ESTONIAN PARLT ADOPTED STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF PEOPLE OF UKRAINE

 

Tallinn, February 22 (ELTA) – On 22 February, the Riigikogu (Parliament of Estonia) adopted the Statement submitted by 94 members of the Riigikogu to mark the passing of a year from the beginning of the full-scale military aggression by the Russian Federation in Ukraine and to express their respect for the heroic people of Ukraine, said the Riigikogu Press Service.

85 members of the Riigikogu supported the adopting of the Statement.

In the Statement, the Riigikogu condemns the Russian Federation’s ongoing military aggression and expresses deep sympathy to the Ukrainian people whose close ones have fallen in the battles with the powerful aggressor or have suffered in the genocide committed against the peaceful population. "The bravery of the Ukrainian people obliges the countries respecting democratic values to unity and continued cooperation for the victory of Ukraine. The Riigikogu calls on the international community to support Ukraine by military, political, and economic means in a more decisive manner to achieve this goal more quickly,” the Statement says.

According to the Statement, the Riigikogu supports the 10-point peace plan proposed by President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy in November, which will help restore peace in Europe and prevent recurrence of aggression. "In order to implement the peace plan, the international community must help Ukraine restore its territorial integrity, bring the leaders of state and senior military officials of the Russian Federation to justice for acts of aggression and war crimes, and ensure the compensation of war damages caused to Ukraine,” the Statement of the Riigikogu says, and calls on countries around the world to strengthen the sanctions against the Russian Federation and underlines that sanctions must remain in full force until the peace plan is fully implemented.

The Riigikogu supports the establishment of a centre for investigating Russia’s crime of aggression by the European Union in The Hague and calls on the countries of the world to contribute in every way to the activities of the centre, and to continue with efforts to set up an international special tribunal.

In the Statement, the Riigikogu condemns the attempts to admit athletes representing the Russian and Belarusian regimes to international competitions and the Olympic Games in violation of the principles of the Olympic Charter. "Neither the International Olympic Committee nor anyone else can remain neutral in regard to the war launched and the genocidal crimes committed by Russia’s terrorist regime – covering up these crimes with the Olympic flag is immoral and unacceptable,” the Statement says.

The Riigikogu calls on the Member States of the European Union to support Ukraine in carrying out the reforms necessary for achieving the membership status of the Union as soon as possible and expresses support to Ukraine’s accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization at the first opportunity. "Peace and security in Europe are possible only after Ukraine’s victory over the aggressor. Estonia will continue to assist the state and the people of Ukraine by all means available with resolute and steadfast commitment until this victory is achieved,” the Riigikogu confirms in the Statement.

Since the beginning of the last year, the Riigikogu has adopted altogether five Statements and one Communication to condemn the activities of Russia and express support to Ukraine. On 18 January, the Riigikogu passed the Statement in Support of the Territorial Integrity of Ukraine, initiated by 28 members of the Riigikogu; on 23 February, the Statement on the Aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, initiated by 86 members of the Riigikogu; on 14 March, the Communication to the Parliaments of the Member States of the European Union and NATO to ask for their support for imposing additional sanctions and for Ukraine’s official application for the status of an EU candidate country, initiated by 28 members of the Riigikogu; on 21 April, the Statement on the War Crimes and Genocide Committed by the Russian Federation in Ukraine, initiated by 84 members of the Riigikogu, and on 18 October, the Statement on Condemning the Annexation of the Territory of Ukraine and Declaring Russia a Terrorist Regime, submitted by 85 members of the Riigikogu.

West must make all efforts to help Ukraine win – president of Latvia

Riga, February 22 (ELTA) – On 22 February, President of Latvia Egils Levits went to Warsaw to meet with US President Joe Biden, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and other heads of NATO eastern flank (B9, Bucharest 9) countries during the Warsaw summit. During the summit, leaders confirmed their readiness to continue coordinating NATO response to war in Ukraine and further efforts to strengthen security in Europe and NATO Eastern Flank in particular. Summit resulted in adoption of joint statement, stated the Office of the President.

In his address to other heads of state, President Levits presented Latvia’s national vision for achieving lasting peace in Europe and securing rules-based international order. "Ukraine must win the war and Russia must lose. There is no other way to maintain sustainable peace in Europe and the rules-based international order. Therefore, we must be prepared to do everything necessary to ensure that Ukraine wins. This is not just a question of aircraft but of our determination to uphold our values in the longer term,” the president of Latvia stressed.

According to Egils Levits, it is vital to hold Russia accountable for its war crimes against Ukraine. "Ukraine’s future and international order will be safe only if Russia is held accountable by a special international tribunal,” the president pointed out.

It is necessary to give Ukraine a clear future perspective with regard to membership in NATO and post-war security guarantees. "Ukraine wants to join NATO and Latvia is ready to fully support such step. Formally, countries at war are not allowed to join the Alliance. It is our opportunity to provide the future security guarantees during Vilnius Summit in July that Ukraine will need after the war,” President Levits said.

The forthcoming NATO Summit in Vilnius this July was one of the topics of the meeting between heads of state. As the president of Latvia pointed out, Vilnius Summit should give clear signal about reinforcement of Alliance’s eastern flank, which includes also the Baltics.

 

LATVIAN FORMIN TO ADDRESS UN ABOUT SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE

 

Riga, February 22 (ELTA) – From 22 to 24 February 2023, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Latvia Edgars Rinkēvičs will be visiting New York to take part in events on the United Nations agenda – a year after Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine – said the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia.

On 23 February, the foreign minister will participate in the emergency special session of the United Nations General Assembly on Ukraine. The session is expected to adopt a resolution titled "Principles underlying a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in Ukraine”. The minister will appeal to the United Nations member states urging them to stand up against the aggression and provide every kind of support that Ukraine requires in the fight for its territory and sovereignty. Edgars Rinkēvičs will reassert the need to achieve Russia’s accountability for its crimes of aggression and call for the establishment of a special international tribunal.

On 24 February, the minister is to address the meeting of the United Nations General Assembly on Ukraine, at which Edgars Rinkēvičs will deliver a speech on behalf of the Nordic countries and the Baltic States.

As part of his visit, the foreign minister will have meetings with the United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres and with the leadership of the UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the International Crisis Group, as well as taking part in a ministerial level meeting with participation of the Ukrainian minister of foreign affairs. Edgars Rinkēvičs also intends to meet with the ambassadors of UN member states in New York for an exchange of views on the global repercussion of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230223ej2n000dx


UKRAINE - ONE YEAR OF WAR/Political pundit Dan Dungaciu: We are on the verge of an unprecedented escalation of declarations
860 字
2023 年 2 月 23 日 12:10 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2023 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Feb 23 /Agerpres/ - Dan Dungaciu, director of the Romanian Academy's Institute of Political Science and International Relations 'Ion I. C. Bratianu', states that one year after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, 'we are in a difficult moment', on the verge of an 'unprecedented escalation' of declarations.

'In the beginning there were red lines. Now they have diluted and are becoming ever more vague. The aid to Ukraine is upped to increasingly more sophisticated weapons, enhancing Ukraine's fighting capacity, but it also backfires by escalating the situation on the ground. In addition we also have the U.S. president's direct involvement in his own right, as a political statesman, as his presence in Kyiv sent out the message that this is also becoming 'a Biden war'. This is important including in the perspective of the U.S. presidential elections,' Dan Dungaciu told AGERPRES.

In his opinion, we are witnessing a situation of 'reputational commitment' of the most important actors in this conflict, as for Vladimir Putin Ukraine has long been a personal matter, which should not be neglected.

'When you provide increasingly more sophisticated weapons, when world leaders almost personally take up the stakes of the conflict, getting out of it becomes very difficult. (...) We are on the verge of an unprecedented escalation at the level of declarations, see also the speeches of the American and the Russian presidents. This means that there is either a negotiation in preparation, or that the war continues indefinitely,' argued Dan Dungaciu.

He is of the opinion that Russia does not seem capable of mounting an offensive aimed at Kyiv.

'This was apparently the initial plan of the Russians in February 2022, put on the president's desk by the KGB, to enter Kyiv with special forces and topple the governing team - the army was to provide the threatening backdrop that was supposed to pave the way to the country's surrender after the leaders were eliminated. But the plan failed thanks to the Americans and the British and I don't see the actual possibility of going back to it. I repeat - today the dangers are of a different, less spectacular nature, but still harmful for Ukraine,' Professor Dungaciu said.

Dan Dungaciu also notes that 'at this moment Russia controls 20 percent of Ukraine, the rich part, and thereby blocks any Euro-Atlantic integration of the country'.

Regarding Romania's position one year since the outbreak of the war, and speaking of political, military and security guarantees, Dan Dungaciu emphasized that our country's security is ensured 'primarily by NATO', but specified that 'the North Atlantic Alliance should treat equally both ends of the eastern flank, namely the Baltic and the Black Sea', which is not yet the case 'and I cannot imagine what else could happen for them to understand that here, at the Black Sea, we need a permanent military presence, at least at the level planned for Poland'.

According to the political pundit, there is no way for Moscow to send troops to the Republic of Moldova as long as Ukraine resists.

He emphasized that the Republic of Moldova must now receive support for survival and signals that it is perceived as part of the West, of the Western world.

The head of the Romanian Academy's Institute of Political Science and International Relations said that the statement of U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris about the crimes against humanity committed by Russia is 'a clear and tough signal'.

'It is a clear and tough signal, even if, strategically, it was not uttered by the American president, but by the vice-president. The problem about what happens after the war depends exclusively, I would say, on how the war ends. The winners are never judged. Only the defeated,' he pointed out.

Regarding the implementation of an EU decision to establish a tribunal process to bring before a high international court those responsible for starting the war against Ukraine and confiscate Russian assets, Dungaciu showed that 'money is important, but it cannot be the only sanction applied to a state that invades and seizes territories'.

He believes that peace cannot be tackled without at least Ukraine scoring significantly military-wise.

'(...) A peace treaty is an armistice with added political and strategic clauses. So it's something much more elaborate, but it's hardly likely, as you well said. An armistice is more plausible, but what will matter later will be the definition of victory and defeat. That is, strategic communication. 'Ukraine cannot be a victory for Russia' - the American president tells us. And it won't be. What it will be, however, is not clear. Most likely, the outcome of the war will be somewhere between Russia didn't win and Ukraine didn't lose. Where exactly, it's impossible to say right now,' declared the director of the 'Ion I. C. Bratianu' Institute of Political Science and International Relations of the Romanian Academy, Dan Dungaciu. AGERPRES (RO - author: Daniel Popescu, editor: Andreea Rotaru; EN - editor: Simona Klodnischi)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020230223ej2n002e5


Romania This Week - February 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 24 日, 10168 字, (英文)
Bank loans in Romania lag behind inflation at end-JanThe stock of retail loans in Romania has decreased in nominal terms since last September while the stock of corporate loans was marginally pushed up only by bullet loans visible in ...

Romania This Week - March 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 3 日, 16182 字, (英文)
Romania’s industrial inflation eases markedly to 24% y/y in JanuaryThe factory-gate prices in Romania increased by 1.24% in January while the annual rate of increase eased to 24.0% y/y from 32.8% y/y in December, according to data reported ...

Sanctions proposed for attempts to destabilize Moldova - Romanian minister in Vilnius
269 字
2023 年 3 月 13 日 16:30 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2023 Baltic News Service
VILNIUS, Mar 13, BNS – As Moldova is rocked by anti-government protests, Romania is proposing creating of a separate sanction regime to help combat attempts to destabilize the country, Romanian Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu said in Vilnius on Monday after meeting with Lithuania's top diplomat Gabrielius Landsbergis.

"I highlighted the importance of creating a separate sanction regime to counter the destabilizing actions in the Republic of Moldova, as I proposed at the Foreign Affairs Council meeting on February 20," Aurescu said, adding that he's determined to support Moldova's resilience in every possible way.

Aurescu also hopes Romania will join the Schengen Area later this year.

In December, Bulgaria and Romania's applications to join the Schengen Area were blocked. Meanwhile, the EU backed Croatia's accession at the time.

Amid escalating tensions between Moscow and Chisinau, fugitive pro-Russian oligarch Ilhan Shor'spolitical party has pooled people in recent weeks again to protest against the pro-European government.

On Sunday, Moldovan police said they had arrested members of a Moscow-organized network ahead of an anti-government protest. They allegedly sought to destabilize the country.

Representatives of this network have organized several rallies and allegedly paid money for people to attend them.

A new protest took place in Chisinau on Sunday.

The White House has accused Russia of seeking to destabilize Romania and wanting to put a pro-Russian government in place.

Previously under Russian influence, Moldova is now governed by a firmly pro-European government.

By Greta Zulonaitė

redakcija@bns.lt[mailto:redakcija@bns.lt], Vilnius newsroom

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020230313ej3d004bl


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10878
President Gitanas Nausėda: Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen: Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Ministries Karolis Broga
4653 字
2023 年 3 月 31 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10878 (95284) FRIDAY MORNING, MARCH 31

 

SEIMAS TIGHTENS PENALTIES FOR SANCTION BREACHES TO INDIVIDUALS AND BUSINESSES

 

Vilnius, March 30 (ELTA) – On Thursday, the Seimas adopted amendments to the Law on International Sanctions and part of accompanying legislation imposing fines to individuals and businesses for violations of economic restrictions.

The package of proposals was drawn up by the Foreign Ministry.

The amendments to the Criminal Code, the Code of Administrative Offences and the Law on International Sanctions lay down that both natural and legal persons will be subject to penalties for breaches of not only international sanctions, but also of sanctions established by Lithuanian legislation.

The draft law adopted by the Seimas provides for fines of between EUR 200 and EUR 6,000 for infringements of restrictive measures, and between EUR 600 and EUR 6,000 for legal entities. Repeated infringements would result in a fine of between EUR 2,000 and EUR 6,000, and between EUR 4,000 and EUR 6,000 for entrepreneurs or other persons responsible for legal persons. The offences will be punishable not only by fines, but also by confiscation of goods, services or other assets

The said restrictions would be established at the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences.

Meanwhile, the Law on International Sanctions was extended with provisions on legal persons who violate sanctions. For a first offence, businesses would be fined between 50% and 100% of the value of the goods or services in breach of sanctions, but not less than EUR 10,000.

The fine would range from EUR 10,000 to EUR 50,000 if the subject matter of the breach of international sanctions is other than goods or services.

Repeated infringements or an infringement at the value exceeding EUR 100,000 would be punishable by a fine of up to 5% of the annual revenue of the legal person.

Next week, the Seimas is set to decide on national sanctions, covering residence permits and visas for Russian and Belarusian nationals, procedures for granting citizenship, purchase of real estate and others.

Some of these national sanctions are already applied by Lithuania, but the intention is to move them into a separate law and not to link them specifically to the emergency regime.

These restrictive measures would apply for one year from the date of entry into force of the law. The Government would have the right to extend the time limits if needed.

 

AGRICULTURE MINISTER TO JOIN MPS AFTER MAJAUSKAS’ LEAVE

 

Vilnius, March 30 (ELTA) – Minister of Agriculture Kęstutis Navickas is set to become a member of the Seimas after Mykolas Majauskas announced Thursday he was standing down from the parliament.

Majauskas was elected to the Seimas in 2020 by preferential voting, under the TS-LKD list of candidates where he was followed by Navickas.

The politician said he had no doubt as to joining the Homeland Union-Lithuanian Christian Democrats (TS-LKD) in the parliament.

According to Navickas, "you decide on being in politics once you run in elections.”

"I was really surprised, not expecting that. I was going to the opening of the exhibition Ką pasėsi. Found out about it on my way there,” the politician told reporters at the Seimas on Thursday.

"I do not intend to refuse [the mandate – ELTA],” he noted.

When asked which parliamentary committee he would like to work in, Navickas refrained from naming any, saying that the decision is at the disposal of the TS-LKD political group.

"The political group will decide. My area of expertise is agriculture and the environment. But this is the group’s decision,” he stressed.

In the previous cabinet Navickas headed the Ministry of Environment.

He is not a member of the TS-LKD party.

 

SEIMAS REJECTS PROPOSAL TO LIMIT LRT DIRECTOR GENERAL’S TERMS OF OFFICE

 

Vilnius, March 31 (ELTA) – Terms of office of the director general of public broadcaster LRT (Lithuanian Radio and Television) will not be limited as the proposal put forward by the Lithuanian Farmers and Greens party (LVŽS) was turned down.

On Thursday, parliament rejected amendments to the Law on the National Radio and Television proposed by the LVŽS that sought to limit LRT director general’s terms of office to two terms.

The bill failed to attract the sufficient number of votes in favour as it was supported by 34 MPs, while 22 voted against and 24 abstained.

The current law stipulates that LRT director general is appointed by the LRT Council for a term of five years in a public competition. The law does not limit terms of office of the director general.

 

ŠIMONYTĖ MEETS WITH FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER

 

Vilnius, March 30 (ELTA) – On Thursday, Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė met with Catherine Colonna, French Minister of Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is paying a visit to Lithuania. The two discussed support for Ukraine, which is defending itself against Russian military aggression, sanctions against Russia and its international responsibility as the aggressor state, the strategic partnership between Lithuania and France, the resilience of democracies against authoritarian regimes, and other issues relevant to both countries, the Office of the Government said.

"Lithuania and France are united by common values and the pursuit of a secure, peaceful and stable Europe, as well as a rule-based world order. We have cemented our close bilateral relations through a strategic partnership, the strength and development of which is more tangible and relevant than ever given today’s challenges. As Russia continues its brutal war against Ukraine, authoritarians across the world are watching to see whether the democracies supporting the Ukrainians will not lose their unity, resolve and strategic patience. It is important that we are and stay united, both in words and deeds,” said Prime Minister Šimonytė.

The parties discussed the need to continue supporting Ukraine by providing it with necessary and rapid military assistance, as well as to continue and strengthen the effective policy of sanctions against Russia and its accomplice Belarus.

Supporting Ukrainians in defending their country and their democratic future is crucial, as authoritarian regimes around the world are watching and assessing the limits of their capacity for aggression, and learning from the mistakes made, Prime Minister Šimonytė added. Therefore, cooperation among democracies needs to be even more active to resist the influence of authoritarian regimes.

In this context, it is also important to continue supporting Belarusian civil society and its legitimate demands for an end to the regime’s repression, the release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners, and democratic elections.

The head of the Government of Lithuania thanked Foreign Minister Colonna for France’s contribution to the strengthening of NATO’s Eastern flank, including its participation in the Alliance’s Baltic Air Policing Mission and the Enhanced Forward Presence (eFP) battlegroups.

As Prime Minister Šimonytė noted during the meeting, Lithuania is strengthening its national defence capabilities, and doing so in cooperation with close partners and allies like France.

The parties also discussed the need to counter Russia’s disinformation efforts outside Europe, especially in Africa and Asia, to discredit Ukraine and to shift the blame for the global consequences of the war to Western countries and their sanctions against Russia.

The meeting also focussed on China’s role in global politics.

 

LANDSBERGIS ATTENDS BUCHAREST NINE FORMINS’ MEETING IN POLAND

 

Vilnius, March 30 ELTA) – On 30-31 March, Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis is attending a meeting of foreign ministers of the Bucharest Nine countries in Lodz, Poland.

The ministers are scheduled to discuss further practical and political support to Ukraine, the security situation on NATO’s eastern flank, preparations for the meeting of NATO foreign ministers on 4-5 April and the forthcoming NATO Vilnius summit in July, the Foreign Ministry announces.

The Bucharest Nine includes Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia.

The nine-state cooperation format was launched in Bucharest in November 2015 with an aim to defend shared security interests of the region within NATO following Russia’s aggression in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea.

 

THERE WILL BE NO ILLEGAL MIGRATION ROUTE THROUGH LITHUANIA, MINISTER SAYS

 

Vilnius, March 31 (ELTA) – Minister of the Interior of Lithuania Agnė Bilotaitė says the migrant crisis deliberately caused by Belarus has not ended and the Ministry of the Interior is closely monitoring the situation at the border and assessing information about potential new flights from Iran and Iraq to Belarus, and a possible migrant route through Russia’s Kaliningrad region.

"This [hybrid] attack by Belarus has not ended. This year there have been some 600 attempts to cross our border. The routes now go through Moscow. We are closely following the information we receive from our agencies and institutions, as well as from the European Union’s, the European Commission’s bodies. The information suggests that new flights are possible from Iran and Iraq,” the minister told the public broadcaster LRT on Thursday evening.

She added that in the past the European Commission contributed a lot to stopping migrant flights from Iraq, but it would have little leverage if such flights were launched from Iran, as there are no agreements with Iran, which would complicate the repatriation of illegal migrants.

Nonetheless, the minister stressed that Lithuania has constructed a physical barrier at the border with Belarus and the border with Belarus and Russia is monitored using surveillance systems, whereas Lithuania will continue the policy of not allowing migrants to cross the border illegally.

 

FIVE MIGRANTS TRIED TO ACCESS LITHUANIA ILLEGALLY FROM BELARUS

 

Vilnius, March 31 (ELTA) – Five migrants attempted to cross from Belarus to Lithuania illegally on Thursday, 30 March, according to the State Border Guard Service (VSAT).

Neighbouring Latvia stopped 28 migrants from entering its territory from Belarus on Thursday, whereas Polish border guards prevented 116 illegal migrants from entering Poland via Belarus on Wednesday.

So far this year, by 31 March 2023, the State Border Guard Service (VSAT) has prevented 612 migrants from accessing Lithuania illegally via Belarus.

The figure stood at 11,211 in 2022 and 8,120 in 2021, since 3 August, when the VSAT was authorised to start turning away illegal migrants, until the end of the year.

Since the start of the migrant crisis caused by Belarus, the VSAT has thwarted 19,927 illegal border crossing attempts.

 

LITHUANIAN-COORDINATED EU CYBER RAPID RESPONSE TEAMS CAN BE USED AS STANDING CAPABILITY WITHIN AND OUTSIDE EU – MINISTRY

 

Vilnius, March 30 (ELTA) – Following the completion of the mission in Mozambique this March, the Lithuanian-coordinated European Union Cyber Rapid Response Teams (CRRT) can be used as a standing capability for internal EU needs as well as in support of EU partners and the EU Common Security and Defence Policy missions and operations, the Ministry of National Defence says in a press release.  

On 28-29 March, representatives of the Ministry's Cybersecurity and IT Policy Group and the National Cyber Security Centre of Excellence were on a visit to Zagreb, capital of Croatia, to attend the annual meeting of Lithuanian-coordinated CRRTs under the EU Permanent Structure Cooperation (PESCO) framework.

The meeting featured presentation of one of the latest CRRT achievements, the vulnerability assessment carried out in the European Union Training Mission in Mozambique, EUTM-Moz, this March, which was also the first test of CRRT capabilities in the EU Common Security and Defence Policy missions and operations.  

Another highlight was the successful vulnerability assessment in Moldova in 2022. Part of the CRRT expert capability was deployed on the ground and part joined digitally. This opens the door for testing the capability not only in support of member states and participants of the project, EU authorities, agencies and institutions, but also EU partners.   

One of the key activities of an EU CRRT is its constant development through refinement of the procedures and practices applied in the capability. To that end, the annual meeting in Zagreb was also attended by representatives of the enterprise consortium that designed the cyber toolkit for the CRRTs for a strategic but also practical technical discussion.  

The meeting marked the beginning of the next, fifth rotation, which will be led by Croatia. The number of CRRT projects participants increased from 6 to 8 this March with the joining of Belgium and Slovenia.

Currently a CRRT comprises 8-12 cybersecurity experts delegated at national level by eight EU member states – Belgium, Croatia, Estonia, Lithuania, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Slovenia. The team is capable of offering assistance in managing a cyber-incident or carrying out prevention (vulnerability assessments, elections observation, etc.).

Established in 2018, the Lithuanian-coordinated PESCO Cyber Rapid Response Teams and Mutual Assistance in Cyber Security project is among the most successfully developed and most advanced PESCO projects. 

 

AN INSTITUTION SHAPING DEMOGRAPHIC POLICY NEEDED, DARGIS SAYS

 

Vilnius, March 30 (ELTA) – Robertas Dargis, member of the presidium and former president of the Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists (LPK), argues that Lithuania needs a new institution responsible for both demographic and migration policy-making to address demographic challenges.

The Migration Department has some responsibilities in this area, but its functions are insufficient, Dargis noted.

"There is no single centre that is today specifically dedicated to policy-making on demography and migration issues. Whenever we start talking about these things, everybody thinks of the Migration Department, but its functions are very narrow and do not reflect the reality of the national situation. We need to have one institution responsible for demographic and migration policy-making,” Dargis said at the discussion "What will be Lithuania’s response to demographic challenges?” held at the Seimas on Thursday

The representative of the LPK also said MPs should create a long-term plan to solve demographic problems that would remain unchanged and independent of parties’ views. In addition, he said, an official in the Seimas should be appointed to oversee the area which would enable faster decisions.

"Today, solving the demographic problems is on the same level as our country’s entry into NATO and the EU earlier – if we had not done it, we all understand where we would have ended up. It is an issue of such a level that the Seimas, having rejected the different views of its members, has to ensure that plans to deal with it are in place and are followed up at all times,” Dargis said.

The responsible officials and institutions could both encourage Lithuanians to start families and have children, and work towards the immigration and integration of people from other countries who are beneficial to Lithuania, he stressed.

Hot tests in Vilnius Combined Heat and Power Plant have started

Vilnius, March 31 (ELTA) – On Wednesday, systems at the Vilnius Combined Heat and Power Plant (Vilnius CHP) started the commissioning. The tests evaluate readiness of equipment for heat and electricity production, energy company Ignitis said in a press release.

Hot tests verify all operationally significant regimes of equipment and systems which monitor performance indicators. As planned, biofuel unit will start operation in heating season of 2023-2024 and significantly contribute to the reduction of fossil fuel used in Vilnius central heating network.

"I am delighted that our team and contractors have managed to start hot tests on first quarter. Despite this is one of the final project stages, a lot of intensive work still awaits. Throughout these tests, we will be monitoring biofuel plant operations, biofuel preparation and transportation systems as well as the joint plant (waste and biofuel) balancing systems. If necessary, we will stop testing and conduct requisite tuning works for the equipment. During these hot tests biofuel plant will be integrated into Vilnius centralised heating networks and Lithuania’s electricity grid. This is a common process in similar plants which may last for half a year or longer for the sake of ensuring stable heat and electricity production at optimal power,” says Vilnius CHP CEO Mantas Burokas.

One thing to note is that the Vilnius CHP will not operate at full power throughout testing and generated heat levels will fluctuate depending on operational settings, heating demand in Vilnius, equipment stability and risk of defect.

The Vilnius CHP started the cold testing phase in November 2022. The aim of this stage is to prepare of the equipment for the proper operation before the fuel is loaded. Together with aforementioned, other important systems such as the pipelines for drinking and extinguishing, air purification and conditioning were tested.

Vilnius CHP is in operation since 2021, the plant is generating energy from waste. The plant incinerates approximately 160 thousand tonnes of communal waste yearly. The consumption of biomass in the upcoming biomass unit is estimated to be 500 thousand tonnes.

Vilnius CHP will become one of the most modern combined heat and power plant in Europe. It is planned that after the project is finalised, the electric power of the plant will be approximately 93 MW, whereas heating power 239 MW.

 

SPECIAL INVESTIGATION SERVICE NOT TO PROBE ALLEGATIONS AGAINST ADVISER TO AGRICULTURE MIN

 

Vilnius, March 30 (ELTA) – The Ministry of Agriculture says it has been informed by the Special Investigation Service (STT) that the latter did not find any criminal elements in the actions of the minister’s adviser Rokas Petrašiūnas.

The STT refused to open a pre-trial investigation into allegations of possible abuse and influence peddling against Agriculture Minister Kęstutis Navickas’ adviser, which were publicly made by Aleksandras Muzikevičius, acting Head of the National Paying Agency under the ministry.

According to the STT, the suggestion made by Petrašiūnas to Muzikevičius to consider applying for the post of agricultural attaché does not contradict the ministry’s established practice of appointing candidates to such posts by organising selections and offering them to the ministry’s employees and applicants from the institutions under the ministry.

When assessing the fragments of the exchange between Petrašiūnas and Muzikevičius, which were made public in the media, the STT found no specific promises made in the conversation that the person would be appointed to the position without selection or by circumventing the established procedures.

"No statements are made in the conversation that could be considered as illegal actions having the elements of criminal offences,” the STT said in its decision obtained by the Ministry of Agriculture.

As earlier reported by Delfi.lt, Head of the National Paying Agency (NMA) Aleksandras Muzikevičius accused the agriculture minister’s adviser Rokas Petrašiūnas of attempting to persuade him to quit his job and become a commercial attaché in the United Arab Emirates instead.

Muzikevičius shared a recorded conversation with the news website in which Petrašiūnas allegedly offered him the job of the commercial attaché in Dubai in February 2022, highlighting great working conditions, including perks like health insurance and dental care.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Friday, March 31

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

16:30

To attend Virtual Bucha Summit (Presidential Palace, S. Daukanto 3).

 

SEIMAS

 

9:00

To meet with Natallia Pinchuk, Nobel Peace Prize laureate Ales Bialiatski’s wife.

12:30

To meet with winners of competition Aš esu pilietis (I am a Citizen).

Office of the Government

8:30

To hold an internal meeting.

9:00

To hold a working meeting..

11:30

To meet with US troops in Pabradė.

Minister of Environment Simonas Gentvilas:

12:30

To meet with Ambassador of Denmark Hans Brask.

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis:

To continue his visit to Rzeszów-Jasionka, Poland.

Minister of Health Arūnas Dulkys:

To attend an EMT (Emergency Medical Teams) EURO Regional Group meeting in Berlin.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis:

To attend a meeting of Bucharest Nine foreign ministers in Lodz, Poland.

 

LAW ENFORCEMENT

 

13:00

The Martynas Mažvydas National Library to host an event aimed to overview the 2022 activities of the Lithuanian judiciary.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

ESTONIAN PM EXPECTS ENERGY COMPANIES TO START RAPIDLY REDUCING PRICES

 

Tallinn, March 30 (ELTA) – Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas (Reform) said that now electricity and gas prices have stabilized, she expects energy companies to start bringing prices down as quickly as they were previously going up, Estonia’s public broadcaster ERR reports.

"Something that has been on my mind quite a bit, is how the market economy we have works all together. It irritates me, both as prime minister and as an ordinary citizen. We remember, that when electricity costs, or energy costs were going up, everyone was quick to raise their own prices, pointing to these increases in energy or electricity prices,” Kallas said at a government press conference.

"However, now that gas and electricity are back to their pre-war (price) levels, I would expect those companies to actually start bringing prices down, according to the same rationale, and at the same speed,” the prime minister continued.

 

ESTONIA COUNTS ON EUROPEAN COMMISSION TO REDUCE AGREED COVID VACCINE SUPPLY

 

Tallinn, March 30 (ELTA) – Estonia has almost 1.5 million doses of coronavirus vaccines in stock and will also receive around 1.3 million more from pharmaceutical companies under EU joint procurement agreements, the country’s public broadcaster ERR reports.

Estonia therefore supports the European Commission in its ongoing negotiations with vaccine manufacturers to reduce the number of doses they agree supply.

"It is our wish to reduce the number of outstanding doses by as much as possible in the course of these negotiations,” Eveli Bauer, chief specialist at the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, told ERR.

On Monday, Euractiv.com reported, that European Commission officials, along with representatives of some EU countries, are negotiating with drug companies to reduce the quantity of vaccines, which they had initially ordered during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic.

According to Bauer, negotiations to amend the terms of the contract with Pfizer/BioNTech as part of the EU’s joint coronavirus vaccine procurement agreement, which are being led by the European Commission, are still ongoing.

 

US MILITARY PRESENCE VITAL FOR CREDIBLE NATO DETERRENCE AND DEFENCE IN BALTICS, LATVIAN FORMIN SAYS

 

Riga, March 30 (ELTA) – On Wednesday in Washington, DC, Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs met with the United States Deputy Secretary of State, Wendy Sherman, to exchange views on the bilateral relation between Latvia and the United States, including the economic relations of the two countries, especially in the field of information technologies and energy, the Latvian Foreign Ministry reports.

The officials also discussed preparations for the NATO Summit in Vilnius this summer, current support for Ukraine, and security policy issues in the region.

During the meeting, Edgars Rinkēvičs praised the close bilateral political and security cooperation that had been developed between Latvia and the United States. The Minister thanked the current US President’s administration for promoting the development, manufacturing and distribution of safe 5G technologies, especially among the Allies. The Minister said that Latvia was prepared to supply 5G equipment, in high demand worldwide, that would be fully developed and manufactured in a NATO Member State, Latvia.

The officials then discussed the upcoming NATO Summit in Vilnius. The minister thanked the US for its military presence in the Baltic States, and he confirmed that Latvia would continue to provide host country support and welcome the enhanced Allied forces. The foreign minister informed Deputy Secretary Sherman that there were plans to increase Latvia’s national defence spending to 2.5 percent of GDP by 2025, and to 3 percent of GDP by 2027.

In the conversation, Minister Rinkēvičs stated that the US military presence was highly important for a reliable NATO deterrence and protection in the Baltic region, and he called on the US to invest in Latvia.

The officials discussed support for Ukraine in the war against Russia. Latvia highly appreciates the important contribution and support of the current US administration to Ukraine’s military efforts. Rinkēvičs pledged Latvia’s commitment to continuing support for Ukraine bilaterally as far as possible. So far, Latvia has invested more than 1.14% (EUR 498 million) of its gross domestic product in military support.

During the meeting, the Latvian foreign minister expressed concern about Russia’s destabilising activities in Moldova, which is being targeted with hybrid attacks and disinformation campaigns.

 

LATVIA RECORDS STEEP RISE IN ROUNDWOOD PURCHASE PRICES IN H1 2022

 

Riga, March 30 (ELTA) – Data of the Central Statistical Bureau of Latvia (CSB) show an increase in the average purchase prices of both coniferous and deciduous roundwood in the second half of 2022, compared to the first half. The highest growth was recorded in the prices of asp sawlogs in diameter 18–24 cm and black alder sawlogs in diameter 18–24 cm, the CSB said in a press release.

In the second half of the year, compared to the first six months, the sharpest rise in the coniferous sawlog segment was registered in prices of pine roundwood in diameter under 14 cm (36% or 24 EUR/m3 on average), pine roundwood in diameter 14–18 cm (34% or 27 EUR/m3), as well as spruce roundwood in diameter under 14 cm (23% or 15 EUR/m3)*. Smaller increase was recorded in purchase prices of spruce sawlogs in diameter 14–18 cm (7% or 6 EUR/m3) and pine sawlogs in diameter 18–26 cm (3% or 3 EUR/m3). While the smallest increase was observed in purchase prices of pine sawlogs in diameter over 26 cm (1% or 1 EUR/m3).

Slight reduction was registered in purchase prices of spruce sawlogs in diameter 18–26 cm (3% or 3 EUR/m3 on average) and spruce sawlogs in diameter over 26 cm (1% or 1 EUR/m3).

In February 2022, Russia's invasion of Ukraine caused economic instability in Europe and worldwide, resulting in higher costs of energy resources, raw materials and logistics. Use of local timber became an important tool to defuse the energy crisis, and demand for fuelwood and wood pellets contributed significantly to the increase in roundwood prices. The EU's sanctions against the aggressor countries recommending to stop buying Russian and Belarusian timber products had an upturn influence on the purchase prices as well.

In the second half of 2022, compared to the first half, the sharpest rise in the deciduous sawlog segment was registered in prices of asp roundwood in diameter 18–24 cm ( 55% or 35 EUR/m3 on average), black alder sawlogs in diameter 18–24 cm (48% or 29 EUR/m3), black alder sawlogs in diameter over 24 cm (46% or 33 EUR/m3), packing timber (39% or 24 EUR/m3), and veneer logs of category A (37% or 55 EUR/m3). Significant increase was also recorded in the purchase prices of birch sawlogs in diameter 18–24 cm (33% or 27 EUR/m3), birch veneer logs of category B (31% or 34 EUR/m3), birch sawlogs in diameter over 24 cm (30% or 32 EUR/m3), and asp sawlogs in diameter over 24 cm (23% or 20 EUR/m3).

In the second half of 2022, compared to the second half of 2021, i.e., situation before the war when economic development was hampered by the COVID-19 pandemic, rise was observed in the purchase prices of all roundwood on the timber market. The most notable increase in the coniferous sawlog segment was recorded in the purchase prices of spruce sawlogs in diameter under 14 cm (of 56% or 29 EUR/m3 on average), pine sawlogs in diameter under 14 cm (55% or 33 EUR/m3), and pine sawlogs in diameter 14–18 cm (31% or 26 EUR/m3). Purchase prices of other coniferous sawlogs grew by 3–12%.

During the period, the highest rise in the deciduous sawlog segment was recorded in the purchase prices of birch sawlogs in diameter 18–24 cm (114% or 59 EUR/m3 on average), black alder sawlogs in diameter 18–24 cm (110% or 47 EUR/m3), and packing timber (85% or 40 EUR/m3). Purchase prices of other deciduous sawlogs grew by 48–80%.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230331ej3v000dx


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10885
Karolis Broga
5128 字
2023 年 4 月 5 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10885 (95291) WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL 5

 

NAUSĖDA JOINED COMMUNIST PARTY IN 1988 – JOURNALIST

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – Journalist Dovydas Pancerovas has published documents revealing that President Gitanas Nausėda joined the Lithuanian Communist Party (LKP) in 1988. The presidency says Nausėda did not take part in the Communist Party’s activities when Sąjūdis, the reform movement of Lithuania striving for the country’s independence from the USSR, was established on 3 June 1988.

Pancerovas wrote on Facebook on 5 April that the Special Archive recently unveiled a new collection of documents and experts in their field noticed that Nausėda’s file was among them. The journalist says he went to the archive to check the files in question and it transpired that Nausėda applied to join the Communist Party on 20 May 1988 and was issued the party’s card on 27 June 1988.

Pancerovas added that during the 2019 presidential election campaign Nausėda concealed his membership in the Communist Party when filing a form with the Central Electoral Commission (VRK).

President’s adviser Ridas Jasiulionis stated in a comment sent to the news agency ELTA that Nausėda was indeed accepted to the Communist Party in 1988 and the documents are stored at the state archive and available for public access. "When Sąjūdis emerged, Nausėda did not take part in the Communist Party’s activities,” Jasiulionis added.

Commenting about the fact that Nausėda had not indicated his membership in the Communist Party to the VRK when he was running for president in 2019, the adviser explained that it was not mandatory to provide information about membership in political parties and organisations.

Earlier in 2023, investigative journalists Dovydas Pancerovas and Birutė Davidonytė published a book Prezidentas ir pranešėjas (A Whistle-blower and the President) about allegedly unlawful data collection by the State Security Department (VSD) during the 2019 presidential election campaign and the vetting of Nausėda’s team, and about Nausėda’s tenure in the president’s office.

 

PRESIDENT SHOULD HAVE REVEALED HIS MEMBERSHIP IN COMMUNIST PARTY – LEGISLATORS

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – Lawmakers from the ruling coalition believe that President Gitanas Nausėda should have revealed his membership in the Lithuanian Communist Party (LKP) after it transpired that he joined it in 1988. They think Nausėda deliberately concealed this information when he was running for president in 2019. Meanwhile, opposition MPs note that he is not the first head of state who had ties to the LKP, yet they too agree that the president should have been transparent about the issue.

"Perhaps Nausėda assumed that the documents were in the archive, probably nobody asked so he did not boast. This was concealed consciously,” Liberal Movement’s MP Eugenijus Gentvilas told the news agency ELTA.

According to him, Communist crimes were being discussed at the time and young Lithuanians were reading various publications of Russian democrats, whereas Nausėda decided to become a member of the Communist Party.

Conservative MP Paulius Saudargas said it was odd that Nausėda sought to join the Communist Party already when Sąjūdis, the reform movement of Lithuania, was about to be founded. He agreed, however, that it was not compulsory to provide information about membership in political parties to the Central Electoral Commission (VRK).

"This is not mandatory, this is not a crime. But evaluating from the political point of view we must see the context, that [former] president Dalia Grybauskaitė used to reveal her membership in the Communist Party,” said Saudargas.

In turn, Social Democratic MP Gintautas Paluckas stated that at one point the LKP had over 250,000 members but he conceded that it would have been better for Nausėda to disclose his links to the LKP. Yet Paluckas does not think the information was kept from the public knowledge deliberately.

Meanwhile, leader of Democrats For Lithuania Saulius Skvernelis says the revelation enables other politicians to question criticism expressed by the president.

He reminded that Eimutis Misiūnas was not allowed to resume working as a judge after his tenure as the minister of the interior in the previous Government. Skvernelis also wondered if the decision not to disclose membership in the Communist Party was not a blemish for holding the president’s office.

"The president should explain why he had not revealed this information. (&) Many politicians used to be members of that party, we had mister presidents and madam presidents, other high ranking and not so high ranking figures. Some did not hide this, others did, and others still, being active Communists and collaborators with the regime, are now the staunchest defenders of independence,” stated Skvernelis.

As reported, investigative journalist Dovydas Pancerovas announced on Facebook on 5 April that a collection of new documents were published by Lithuania’s archives and Nausėda’s file was discovered among them, indicating that he became a member of the Communist Party in 1988.

 

PARLT’S RESOLUTION FOR VILNIUS SUMMIT WOULD URGE NATO TO INVITE UKRAINE TO JOIN BLOC, PAVILIONIS SAYS

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – The Seimas Committee on Foreign Affairs has agreed to urge the NATO allies to formally invite Ukraine to join the alliance.

The committee unanimously approved the said wording in a draft parliamentary resolution aimed to set out Lithuania’s position for the NATO Vilnius summit at its sitting on Wednesday that was also attended by representatives of other authorities.

"I would say this is the implementation of Bucharest [decisions– ELTA]. If we said in Bucharest that Ukraine will become a member, it is high time for an invitation to Ukraine,” said MP Žygimantas Pavilionis, chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

He explained that the parliamentary resolution builds on two NATO summits held in the past – Bucharest summit in 2008 and Madrid summit in 2022.

"We actually seek the implementation of [decisions – ELTA] of the Madrid and Bucharest summits. A brigade was agreed in Madrid, we want this to be carried out. Air defence was talked in Madrid, we want that air policing would really turn into air defence here,” the politician said.

Pavilionis said he was pleased with the unity of all the parties and institutions working on the text.

The draft resolution should be presented at a plenary sitting of the Seimas on Thursday, he said.

Two parliamentary committees, the Committee on National Security and Defence and Committee on Foreign Affairs, were tasked last week with drafting a joint resolution on Lithuania’s position for the NATO Vilnius summit due 11–12 July.

The decision came after a closed meeting of committee members and representatives of the Government, Office of the President and Lithuanian Armed Forces on Friday, Pavilionis said.

The document aims to consolidate Vilnius’ objectives for the Alliance’s summit and strengthen the country’s negotiating position in this way.

 

PM SENDS PESAH GREETINGS TO JEWISH COMMUNITY IN LITHUANIA AND AROUND THE WORLD

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – Prime Minister Ingrida has extended greetings to the Jewish community in Lithuania and Litvaks around the world on the occasion of Pesah, the Office of the Government said on Wednesday.

"Pesah—a time-honoured tradition celebrated for thousands of years— is a testimony to the spiritual rebirth of the Jewish people and their quest for freedom. It is an important reminder, particularly today, that only a free people can overcome the most terrible hardships, find happiness, and build their lives and their country with courage. The spirit of this special feast teaches us that, through faith, we can cross the driest desert, the deepest sea, and reach the promised land,” the prime minister’s letter of greetings reads.

"I send my warm greetings to all the Jews in Lithuania and the world on the occasion of Pesach, and I wish that the joy of communion will accompany the Seder dinner, and that faith, love, and hope will never leave your hearts and homes. Hag Pesah Sameah - Happy Passover!” Šimonytė wrote.

 

COURT REJECTS APPEAL TO RECOUNT VOTES IN VILNIUS DISTRICT RUNOFF MAYORAL ELECTION

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – The Supreme Administrative Court of Lithuanian (LVAT) has rejected the appeal of the Electoral Action of Poles in Lithuania- Christian Families Alliance (LLRA-KŠS) against the results of the runoff mayoral election held in Vilnius district.

The LLRA-KŠS turned to the LVAT after the Central Electoral Commission (VRK) refused to recount the ballots.

The party asked the court to cancel the VRK’s decision and order the election watchdog to hold a recount.

The LLRA-KŠS claimed that some of the votes allegedly were attributed to the wrong candidate, while the presence of members of the Riflemen’s Union at polling stations may frightened elderly voters.

The court ruled that sporadic mistakes in issuing ballot papers and attributing them to candidates were noticed and rectified under the electoral code.

Other circumstances the party indicated, such as the insufficient number of early voting sites, lack of public transport, presence of the Lithuanian Riflemen’s Union at and near the polling stations on the election day, as well as those related to the handling of the complaints by the electoral commission of the Vilnius District Municipality, had no influence on the content of the ballot papers counted and presented to the VRK, the court said.

As reported, Social Democrat Robertas Duchnevič won the mayoral race in runoff voting in Vilnius district. He finished with 50.2% of votes beating LLRA-KŠS candidate Waldemar Urban who was the runner-up with 49.07% of votes.

 

TSIKHANOUSKAYA HAILS PARLT’S DECISION TO EXEMPT BELARUSIANS FROM PART OF SANCTIONS

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – Belarus’ exiled opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya hails the Lithuanian Parliament’s decision to grant some exemptions for Belarusians in national restrictions for Russian and Belarusian nationals.

It is very important to support Belarusians living in Lithuania who fight for the freedom of their homeland, she noted.

"We welcome the Lithuanian parliament initiative to differentiate between Belarusian and Russian citizens. It is crucial to support brave Belarusians who found a safe haven in Lithuania and not to impose restrictions as we persist in our struggle for a free, peaceful and democratic Belarus,” Tsikhanouskaya tweeted on Tuesday evening.

As earlier reported, on Tuesday, the Seimas adopted a new law providing for a temporary national sanction regime to Russian and Belarusian citizens.

After an intense debate, MPs decided to impose a ban on acquiring property and restrict the issuance of temporary residence permits for Russian citizens only.

 

LITHUANIA WILL SEEK FOR ACCOUNTABILITY OF BELARUSIAN REGIME FOR MIGRANTS SMUGGLING

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – On 5 April, the Lithuanian Government has approved the initiative of the Ministry of Justice to take legal actions to hold the Belarusian regime accountable for the smuggling of migrants at Lithuanian-Belarusian border. According to the Lithuanian authorities irregular flow of migration is organised by Belarusian leadership, the Ministry of Justice stated on Wednesday.

A complaint will be lodged against Belarus for non-compliance with the provisions of the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime. Under this Protocol, the Ministry of Justice will initiate negotiation on the referral of the dispute to arbitration or to the International Court of Justice.

Minister of Justice Ewelina Dobrowolska: "Dictators have no immunity from international law. After Putin, it is the turn of the Lukashenko’s regime to be held accountable. Lithuania is consistently seeking the enforcement of the international law and the rule of law. Therefore, all legal instruments and mechanisms will be used and the regimes responsible for violations of international law will have to compensate the damages caused by their illegal actions.”

The flow of irregular migration at the Lithuanian – Belarusian border, which has started in the summer 2021, is a hybrid attack by the Belarusian regime against Lithuania. The aim of this attack is to use migration as a tool to exert political pressure on Lithuania and European Union, for supporting the Belarusian democratic opposition and for the sanctions imposed in response to severe human rights violations in Belarus.

According to Minister Dobrowolska, Lithuania has so far kept defending itself against criticism over the management of the influx of migrants, but in fact is itself a target of political pressure. The issue to be addressed in this case is liability for organising irregular migration. Accountability for the smuggling of people at the Lithuanian–Belarusian border, for the false promises and facilitation of illegal entry into the European Union and for all the consequences must lie with the Belarusian regime.

"As of August 3, 2021, when the State Border Guard Service officers were given the right to turn around illegal migrants trying to illegally cross the border from Belarus in unauthorized places, nearly 20,000 migrants were refused entry to Lithuania,” said the minister. 

Since 1 January 2021, more than 4,500 irregular migrants from the Middle East, Africa and Asia have entered Lithuania through illegal crossing of the national border. Most of them came for economic reasons, having paid travel costs and remuneration for illegal border crossing. Such migration geography and flows are not typical for Lithuania. For example, 74 irregular migrants arrived in Lithuania in 2019, 37 in 2020, 8,106 attempts to cross the border illegally were recorded in 2021, and, in 2022, there were as many as 10,599 of such attempts.

 

DEFMIN HANDS OVER PART OF EUR 41MN MILITARY AID SUPPORT TO UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – National Defence Minister Arvydas Anušauskas says that the new batch of Lithuania’s military support intended for Ukraine totals around EUR 41 million in value.

Anušauskas travelled to Ukraine on Tuesday to hand over part of the aid, the ministry announces.

The overall package includes equipment, new acquisitions, contributions to international funds, Anušauskas said.

In Kharkiv on Tuesday, the defence minister had a meeting with his Ukrainian counterpart Oleksii Reznikov.

The two officials discussed bilateral military cooperation, the NATO Vilnius summit due in July and Lithuania’s support for Ukraine’s NATO membership aspirations.

 

UP TO 50 UKRAINIAN WAR REFUGEES ARRIVE IN LITHUANIA DAILY – MIGRATION DEPARTMENT

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – Up to 50 war refugees from Ukraine are coming to Lithuania on a daily basis, the head of the Migration Department says.

"Still arriving [war refugees from Ukraine coming to Lithuania – ELTA], but in much lower numbers, we register from 20 to 50 every day. We can say that this is the smallest number of arrivals we have had since the start of the war,” Evelina Gudzinskaitė told the LRT radio on Wednesday.

Some of the Ukrainians come back to Lithuania after they have faced difficulties with settling in Ukraine. These persons may receive temporary protection as war refugees, the Migration Department’s director noted.

Around 44,000 people from Ukraine have been granted temporary protection as war refugees.

"But we know that up to a thousand Ukrainians who came to Lithuania and received temporary protection, later found an employer or decided to study and received residence permits on other grounds, and there are around 3 thousand Ukrainians who could not be recognised as war refugees as they may have come before the war but may not be able to return [to Ukraine – ELTA] because of the war,” Gudzinskaitė explained.

Lithuania is currently home to about 48 thousand war refugees from Ukraine. In the beginning of 2023, there were around 95 thousand Ukrainian nationals in the country.

According to the Migration Department, some 4 thousand Ukrainians who were living in Lithuania declared their leave to other European Union countries. They most often depart for Germany, Sweden and Belgium, Gudzinskaitė said.

 

TELIA LIETUVA TO ALLOCATE EUR 34.9MN FOR PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS FOR 2022

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – The Board of AB Telia Lietuva has decided to approve the audited annual financial statements of the company for the year 2022, prepared according to the International Financial Reporting Standards, and to submit them to the company’s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, Telia Lietuva said in a press release.

The audited Telia Lietuva results for the year 2022 were the same as the results for the 12 months of 2022 that were announced on 26 January 2023: revenue amounted to EUR 444.6 million (EUR 420.8 million in 2021), EBITDA amounted to EUR 147.5 million (EUR 138.6 million), and profit for the period was EUR 56.4 million (EUR 56.8 million).

The Board approved the draft of the company’s profit allocation for the year 2022 and decided to propose for the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to allocate the profit according to the draft of profit allocation: from the company’s distributable profit of EUR 142,336,000 to allocate EUR 34,957,000 for the payment of dividends for the year 2022, i.e. EUR 0.06 dividend per share, and carry forward to the next financial year an amount of EUR 107,379,000 as retained earnings (undistributed profit).

"Following the year of a record high capital investments marked with the launch of 5G communication and taking into consideration current economic environment, the Board decided to take a prudent approach and proposed to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to approve a pay-out of EUR 0.06 dividend per share (in total EUR 34.9 million) for the year 2022,” the Board stated in a comment.

The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is scheduled for 27 April.

 

CLOUD TECH COMPANY DEVOTEAM TO EXPAND IN LITHUANIA WITH NEW KAUNAS OFFICE

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) –Devoteam, one of the world’s largest cloud technology companies, has opened a new office in Kaunas, continuing its expansion in Lithuania. The French company, which works with technology leaders Google, Microsoft and AWS, will partner with local university KTU to support the development of cloud technology specialists in the country’s second largest city, Invest Lithuania said in a press release.

Over its more than 25 years of operations, Devoteam has expanded to 25 countries worldwide. It currently has more than 10,000 employees worldwide and hit EUR 1 billion in revenue last year.

Today the company employs 74 specialists in Lithuania across its offices in Vilnius and Kaunas.

Devoteam’s Kaunas office, which was established in March, will focus on the provision of cloud-managed services and continuous innovation, and will be the company’s main cloud services centre. In this way, the Kaunas team will support Devoteam’s mission to help clients achieve automation, smooth daily operations and other business-critical tasks.

Darius Janulevičius, head of Devoteam Lithuania, notes that the company’s decision to be located close to a university training high-level specialists was no coincidence, and that Devoteam plans to play a key role in Kaunas’ ongoing development.

"This strategic move will allow us to further steer the growth of Kaunas’ technology and innovation ecosystem in the right direction. In cooperation with Kaunas University of Technology, we will train world-class cloud services specialists and strengthen the competency of existing ones. I have no doubt that this city will make a significant contribution to Devoteam’s success, and we see opportunities for further expansion in Lithuania,” Janulevičius said.

 

OECD EXPERTS PREPARED RECOMMENDATIONS FOR LITHUANIA TO DEVELOP AND IMPROVE CORRUPTION PREVENTION MEASURES

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – In order to create a corruption resistant environment in the public sector and in business, the Special Investigation Service (STT) is implementing a European Commission-funded technical assistance project Effective Implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. In submitted expert recommendations from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) suggesting the development of anti-corruption activities in municipalities, wider access to data registers for law enforcement agencies, and more effective sanctions for corruption offenses and corruption in the private sector, reports the STT.

The OECD experts collected and assessed information on the National Anti-Corruption Programme of Lithuania for 2015-2025, the inter-institutional action plans for its implementation, other relevant legal regulations, and their practical implementation.

The report covers the areas of political financing and lobbying, judiciary and law enforcement, whistleblower protection, public procurement, healthcare, education, spatial planning, state supervision of construction, waste management, supervision of activities of economic operators, public administration, civil service, and asset management. The final report, presented on 4 April 2023, contains the OECD’s recommendations for transparency in the above areas, strengthening the role of the STT as the institution implementing and coordinating the National Agenda on Corruption Prevention Issues (Agenda), as well as proposals for the improvement of the inter-institutional action plan for the implementation of the 2022-2033 national agenda on corruption prevention issues.

The OECD noted that Lithuania has taken important steps and made significant progress in strengthening the legal framework for transparency in the country. In developing and improving anti-corruption measures in key strategic sectors and planning documents, the OECD recommends:

To expand the activities of municipal anti-corruption commissions and enhance the independence of local government and audit services control. Also, seek to involve the public in monitoring the implementation of accountability mechanisms;

To give law enforcement authorities greater access to national data registers to improve the quality of investigations and the prevention of crime;

To conduct a study to identify the main challenges in prosecuting the private sector for corruption offenses and to assess the need for further reforms;

To include specific measures to improve cooperation and information exchange between the STT and the Financial Crimes Investigation Service (FNTT) in the 2022-2033 Agenda and its subsequent action plans;

To continue and strengthen successful initiatives such as the Integrity Academy.

Following the presentation of this report and the recommendations, work will start on the establishment of a monitoring system for the Action Plan of the Agenda.

During the fact-finding missions, the experts visited Lithuania on several occasions and interacted with representatives of the country’s institutions, whose contribution is crucial to the creation of a corruption-proof environment. They have met with representatives of the STT, the FNTT, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economy and Innovation, the National Courts Administration, the General Prosecutor’s Office, the Chief Official Ethics Commission, the Central Electoral Commission, the Public Procurement Office, the State Territorial Planning and Construction Inspectorate, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Association of Lithuanian Municipalities, the Transparency International Lithuanian Chapter, the Clear Wave and the National Association of Journalists.

 

CORONAVIRUS IN LITHUANIA: 269 NEW CASES CONFIRMED

 

Vilnius, April 5 (ELTA) – On Tuesday, 269 people were diagnosed with the coronavirus, and 77 of the new cases were reinfections, the State Data Agency said.

At present, 5,234 people are ill with the Covid-19 disease. Fifteen patients were hospitalised yesterday and in total 86 are now being treated in hospital. Eight patients are undergoing treatment in intensive care units.

According to the agency, the death toll due to the Covid-19 disease in the country stands at 9,642.

The average number of new daily cases in the last 7 days is 216. The incidence rate per 100,000 residents in the last 14 days is 122.4.

 

ESTONIA’S CENTER PARTY TO LOSE EUR 42,000 MONTHLY IN STATE BUDGET SUPPORT – ERR

 

Tallinn, April 5 (ELTA) – The Estonian state budget support sums for the new political parties’ following the March 5 general elections will rob the Center Party of EUR 41,875 monthly, while parliamentary newcomers Eesti 200 are looking at a gain of EUR 51,492, Estonia’s public broadcaster ERR reports.

Elections winner the Reform Party that has 37 seats in the new Riigikogu will be getting EUR 1,422,998.02 between April 1 and December 31.

The Conservative People’s Party’s (EKRE) 17 seats will land it EUR 653,809.90 during that period, while the sum will amount to EUR 538,431.68 for Eesti 200.

The Social Democratic Party (SDE) will have to make do with EUR 346,13465 after winning nine mandates and Isamaa with EUR 307,675.25 on eight seats.

Two parties that missed the 5-percent election threshold but managed to get at least 2 percent of the vote – United Left Party and Parempoolsed – will both be paid EUR 22,500 between April and December.

 

FOOD PRICE SURGES SLOWING DECISIVELY ON ESTONIAN SUPERMARKETS – ERR

 

Tallinn, April 5 (ELTA) – This March, prices in Estonian supermarkets had risen sharply on year, however, comparing them with February prices, the increases have been modest, and some product prices have even slowly but steadily begun to come down, the country’s public broadcaster ERR reports.

While electricity and natural gas prices have fallen back to lower levels again following a turbulent year, food prices are not decreasing at a comparable rate, according to price info released by the Estonian Institute of Economic Research (EKI).

The prices of only a handful of products have fallen on year, and the fall has been minimal. At the same time, however, the comparison between February and March prices reveals that some prices have slowly started to come down in the last month.

The biggest rise on year in March was seen in the price of sugar, which for some time already has been one of the chief food items to see its price go up.

 

LATVIAN FORMIN SAYS FINLAND’S ACCESSION TO NATO ADDS TO SECURITY OF BALTIC SEA REGION AND THE ALLIANCE AS A WHOLE

 

Riga, April 5 (ELTA) – On Tuesday in Brussels, Latvia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs attended a meeting of NATO Ministers of Foreign Affairs, during which Finland became a full-fledged member NATO, the Latvian foreign ministry reports.

The meeting also included a session of the NATO-Ukraine Commission with the participation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba.

The Latvian foreign minister congratulated Finland on joining NATO. This is a historic milestone that will contribute considerably to the security of the Baltic Sea region and the Alliance, the minister said.

Rinkēvičs also hoped that Sweden would become a full member of NATO by the time the NATO Summit in Vilnius is due in July this year, thus strengthening stability in the transatlantic space.

According to the foreign minister, from Latvia’s perspective, the accession of Finland and Sweden will consolidate NATO’s leading role in the Baltic Sea region – in the air, at sea and on land.

As regards the meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Commission, Rinkēvičs stated that this was an important signal for close cooperation between NATO and Ukraine, as well as an important format for promoting practical cooperation.

"NATO’s Vilnius Summit should be a strategic summit; therefore, I call for an assessment of how to further deepen the strategic partnership with Ukraine in the long term. At the moment, every effort must be made to strengthen Ukraine’s defence capabilities against Russia. Latvia, for its part, will continue to provide all the necessary support to Ukraine,” Rinkēvičs reaffirmed.

 

VILHELMS PURVĪTIS VOTED LATVIA’S COIN OF 2022

 

Riga, April 5 (ELTA) – In the traditional public survey, the coin Vilhelms Purvītis won the title of Latvia’s Coin of the Year 2022, the country’s central bank reports.

In the public survey organised by Latvijas Banka and the news portal Delfi.lv, for two weeks, everyone had the opportunity to vote for the best collector coin of 2022, and this opportunity was seized by more than 9.3 thousand people.

With 5.5 thousand votes, Vilhelms Purvītis is the winning collector coin. The author of its graphic design is artist and painter Frančeska Kirke. She is also the author of three other collector coins issued by Latvijas Banka: The Garden of Destiny, Baltars. Porcelain and Basketball.

The obverse of the coin Vilhelms Purvītis features the painting Winter, one of the most famous paintings by the artist, in colour print, while the coin’s reverse is designed as a plaster model of the painting with varying levels of relief and grades of silver frosting.

Latvijas Banka issued this collector coin to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the birth of Vilhelms Purvītis (1872–1945). Vilhelms Purvītis is the founder and moderniser of the national landscape painting and one of the key figures in Latvian visual art of the first half of the 20th century.

In Latvian art history, the name of Vilhelms Purvītis has become one of the symbols of national identity. The painter’s vision of nature and his classically composed Latvian landscapes in changing seasons are considered to be the canon of national landscape. Purvītis deserves particular recognition as an implementer of the idea of higher artistic education and one of the architects of the cultural policy.

Everyone had the opportunity to vote for one of the four collector coins dedicated to the Latvian culture, history and universal human values and issued in 2022: Satversme 100 (video), Vilhelms Purvītis (video), Upward (video) and For the Freedom of Ukraine (video).

The coin For the Freedom of Ukraine was placed second in the vote. It was created under a specific project in cooperation with Ukrainian artists as support for Ukraine’s fight for its freedom. With the help of this coin, Latvijas Banka will make donations to support Ukraine. The coins For the Freedom of Ukraine and Upward are still available at Latvijas Banka, while the coins Vilhelms Purvītis and Satversme 100 are no longer available at Latvijas Banka.

The voters entered a prize draw. A total of 12 collector coins were offered in the draw, and the names of the winners are published on the website bank.lv. Latvijas Banka will contact each winner.

Since 1993, Latvijas Banka has issued 98 lats collector coins and 47 euro collector coins. Overall, more than 50 artists from Latvia and now also one artist from Ukraine have participated in designing Latvian coins.

Latvian coins have received high international recognition and a number of prestigious awards. The Coin of Latvia won the international 2010 Coin of the Year Award at the contest organised by the US numismatics publishing house Krause Publications and its magazine World Coin News. Latvian coins have also excelled at this contest in other years: in 2016, the silver collector coin Baltic Way was the winner in the Best Contemporary Event category; in 2018, the collector coin "National Entrepreneur" was announced the Most Artistic Coin, while in 2020, the Honey coin, Latvijas Banka’s collector coin, was named the world’s Most Artistic Coin and the Coin of the Year.

The Coin Design Commission of Latvijas Banka (the former Commission for the Thematic Concept of the Banknotes and Coins), which has been active since 12 November 1993, plays an important role in the coin issuing process. The Commission consists of the employees of Latvijas Banka, outstanding Latvian experts in art and culture as well as artists and scientists.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230405ej45001xh


Bulgaria This Week - April 7, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 4 月 7 日, 8495 字, (英文)
Retail sales in Romania, Bulgaria still strong despite rising austerity in CEEThe retail sales index (volume terms) in Romania increased by 2.8% y/y in February, among the weakest rates over the past couple of years according to the ...

LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10896
President Gitanas Nausėda: Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen: Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Karolis Broga
4222 字
2023 年 4 月 14 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 10896 (95302) FRIDAY MORNING, APRIL 14

 

NAUSĖDA SHARES DOCUMENT ON SOCIAL MEDIA IN RESPONSE TO QUERIES OVER KGB FILE

 

Vilnius, April 13 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda has reiterated that he never communicated with the KGB and shared photocopies of a document from the Lithuanian Special Archives on his Facebook on Thursday in response to an inquiry from public activist Andrius Tapinas claiming he had found Nausėda's KGB file in the archives.

Tapinas, founder of Laisvės TV, says that Nausėda’s file is most likely related to his internship in Germany.

Nausėda said in a post on social media that he would respond to the new questions as he had nothing to hide.

"I studied in Germany, University of Mannheim, in 1990-1992. As regards the internship, I communicated only with the Lithuanian education ministry’s staff and representatives of the University of Mannheim. I had never talked to KGB officers neither about the internship in Germany nor any other issues,” the president stated.

Nausėda also said that the file "becoming a basis for new insinuations” was available in the archives to everyone. It includes two sheets of a form dated 15 January 1990 marked with seals of institutions approving his studies in Germany.

"The form was filled in without me being present – the Ministry of Education sent the request, which is what it says on the sheet. Anyone can go and check it. If you don't want to bother, I put the sheets here. Read them, study them. Once again, I have nothing to hide,” the president said.

Nausėda reiterated that he made a mistake by entering the Communist party and not disclosing the fact as he ran for president in 2019.

According to him, "a young man’s decision” had no impact on his worldview, aspirations and political decisions.

"When I decided to go into politics, I was well aware that I would be under a magnifying glass. Some will do it because the public has a right to know, others to satisfy their curiosity, others for political gain,” he wrote on Facebook.

 

BALTIC–BLACK SEA COUNTRIES DISCUSS MILITARY COOPERATION AT CRIMEA PLATFORM CONFERENCE

 

Vilnius, April 13 (ELTA) – National Defence Minister Arvydas Anušauskas is conducting a visit to Bucharest, capital of Romania, on April 12-13, to attend the Black Sea Security Conference of the International Crimea Platform where he has underscored the importance of military cooperation in the Baltic-Black Sea region in the face of the threat posed by Russia, the ministry reports.  

The Crimea Platform is a diplomatic format of Ukraine aimed at drawing the attention of international community to the illegal annexation of Crimea carried out by Russia in 2014. The platform pulls together participants from 46 countries: Defence and Foreign Affairs Ministers, NATO and EU experts, NCOs and regional organisations. The summit in Bucharest has addressed major implications of the Russian war in Ukraine to the Back Sea region and the world. 

"This conference is absolutely relevant because even when the war ends, the Russian threat will remain. It does not matter if we are the Black Sea or the Baltic Sea region. Russia continues using military, political and economic leverage in what it sees as its sphere of influence, therefore we have to ensure the succession of an undivided and steady assistance to Ukraine through political and practical channels alike, as a sign of a European solidarity that Putin will never be able to disrupt,” says Anušauskas.

The current security situation in the Black Sea and the Sea o Azov regions was reviewed and possible solutions to the Russian blockade in the Black Sea was also discussed in Bucharest. 

On 12 April, Anušauskas met with Minister of National Defence of Romania Angel Tîlvăr. The ministers discussed bilateral cooperation, the importance of continued support to Ukraine, preparation for the upcoming NATO Summit in Vilnius in July, and exchanged assessments of the security situation in the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea regions.

Anušauskas thanked Tîlvăr for the Romanian rotation of the NATO Air Policing Mission in the Baltic States.

 

COMMANDER OF FIELD ARMY OF GERMANY VISITS GERMAN TROOPS IN LITHUANIA

 

Vilnius, April 14 (ELTA) – On 13 April, Commander of the Field Army of Germany Maj Gen Harald Gante began his visit in Lithuania – meeting with Chief of Defence Lt Gen Valdemaras Rupšys, Land Force Commander Brig Gen Artūras Radvilas, visiting German troops deployed in Lithuania, reports the Armed Forces.

The main focus of the general’s visit is to discuss collective defence, national defence plans and integration of the German military capabilities with them. Other items on the visit agenda are support in Lithuania’s military capability development and joint training.

"Germany is one of our key Allies in security and defence, therefore, implementation of the adopted decisions requires a consistent interaction and coordination. Our militaries maintain the dialogue, address issues and train daily across all levels. Maj Gen Gante and I have discussed collective defence, we aim for a timely interoperability and action coordination in delivering on both, deterrence and defence. The key points of our discussions are joint exercises, activity of the NATO enhanced Forward Presence Battalion Battle Group, force deployment and support to our capability development efforts,” said the chief of defence of Lithuania after the meeting.

At Rukla, the commander of the Field Army of Germany met with troops of the permanently deployed German Army's 41st Mechanised Infantry Brigade’s Forward Command Element and the NATO enhanced Forward Presence Battalion Battle Group. On Friday, Maj Gen Gante will meet with Chief of the Defence Staff Maj Gen Mindaugas Steponavičius.

 

TEN MIGRANTS WERE STOPPED FROM ILLEGALLY ACCESSING LITHUANIA VIA BELARUS

 

Vilnius, April 14 (ELTA) – On Thursday, 13 April, Lithuanian border guards stopped 10 migrants from crossing the state border illegally from Belarus.

Meanwhile, 41 migrants unsuccessfully attempted to cross from Belarus to Latvia on Thursday and 91 tried to enter Poland from Belarus on Wednesday.

So far in 2023, by 14 April, the State Border Guard Service (VSAT) has prevented 785 migrants from accessing Lithuania illegally via Belarus. The figure stood at 11,211 in 2022 and at 8,120 in 2021, since 3 August, when the VSAT was authorised to start turning around illegal migrants, until the end of the year.

Since the start of the migrant crisis caused by Belarus, Lithuanian border guards have thwarted 20,102 illegal border crossing attempts.

 

FINANCE MINISTER MET WITH DEPUTY SECRETARY OF US TREASURY

 

Vilnius, April 14 (ELTA) – Minister of Finance Gintarė Skaistė is paying a visit to Washington DC to attend spring meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). On 13 April, the minister also met with deputy secretary of the US Treasury, Wally Adeyemo, and underlined the need to expand sanctions both on Russia and Belarus, as well as to prevent sanction circumvention.

"Together with Western partners we must continue tightening sanctions on aggressors Russia and Belarus, and to take care about their effective enforcement in practice. In this regard, it is crucial to prevent channels for sanction evasion via third countries by taking advantage of financial and economic leverage. When expanding sanctions we must focus on decisions reducing Russia’s budget revenue and limiting opportunities for it to finance the war against Ukraine,” said Skaistė.

At the meeting, the minister also emphasised the need to muster sufficient support for rebuilding Ukraine and to find a way to use Russia’s frozen assets. She stressed that attracting financial aid remains a challenge taking into account the USD 411 billion damage Russia’s war has caused in Ukraine. The minister noted that taking into consideration Ukraine’s needs of USD 14 billion funding for rebuilding critical energy infrastructure this year, as well as considering long-term rebuilding efforts, the aggressor must pay and Russia’s frozen assets must be used to cover the costs. It is estimated that Russia’s frozen assets total USD 300 billion, while USD 50 billion of assets of sanctioned companies and individuals are in central bank reserves.

Deputy Secretary Adeyemo serves as the Treasury Department’s number two official and chief operating officer. He has taken a leading role in Treasury’s national security, economic inequality, and pandemic-related economic recovery work.

 

EXPORTING REGION IS OUR GOAL IN COOPERATION WITH LATVIA, ENERGY MIN SAYS

 

Vilnius, April 13 (ELTA) – On Thursday, Energy Minister Dainius Kreivys had a meeting with Latvian Minister for Climate and Energy Raimonds Čudars in Vilnius.

The ministers discussed the implementation of the synchronisation project, opportunities for the joint development of renewable energy, solidarity in ensuring security of gas supply and other issues.

"I told the minister that Lithuania’s position on the Baltic Sea coast is unique, because we have a large electricity potential and consumption potential, and we have an industry that needs to decarbonise. And for that we will need a lot of hydrogen, so we are planning to build not only offshore parks, but also an energy island in the Baltic Sea. It could include not only Lithuanian parks, but also Latvian parks,” Kreivys told reporters after the bilateral meeting with his Latvian counterpart.

"We discussed that the northern region will be, according to all studies, the region that will export energy to Central Europe. For that, joint action is needed to develop projects such as offshore parks, an energy island, so that the hydrogen corridor and our energy economy can move forward,” he added.

The minister also said that Lithuanian and Latvian cement companies, assisted by ministries, would seek to implement a European Union-funded project for CO2 capture and disposal.

Kreivys said that the ministers also agreed on blocking imports of Russian liquefied petroleum gas in the Baltic States. It would be a decision of the Baltic States, as there are no European-level sanctions in this case, he noted.

Latvian Minister for Climate and Energy Raimonds Čudars thanked Lithuania for the supply of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the Klaipėda terminal to Latvia in 2022. The unity in times of uncertainty cannot be overestimated, he stressed.

"The Baltic States, Lithuania and Latvia, set certain example of very positive results achieved by working together. Further cooperation among the Baltic States can result in a sustainable and resilient energy sector that would be beneficial for their citizens, economies and businesses,” Čudars said.

Kreivys and Čudars were also scheduled Thursday to visit the energy storage system at the Vilnius Battery Park. On Friday, the Latvian delegation will tour the Kruonis hydroelectric power plant.

 

FURTHER DECISIONS ON QUITTING BRELL AFTER FEASIBILITY STUDY – KREIVYS

 

Vilnius, April 13 (ELTA) – Energy Minister Dainius Kreivys says that further decisions on energy synchronisation with continental European grids and withdrawal from the BRELL electricity grid system will be made after the results of the technical feasibility study.

He also said that the data from the study would enable discussions on a joint test of isolated operation of the Baltic system.

"This is Lithuania’s test and there has been no decision by Latvia or Estonia not to participate. Our proposal was to do a joint test sometime this year, but for now we are doing it ourselves. As for the future, we plan to have the results of the studies already in May on the technical feasibility: adequacy, stability of the network, changes in prices that may be associated with faster synchronisation,” Kreivys told reporters after his meeting with Latvian Minister for Climate and Energy Raimonds Čudars on Thursday.

"I hope that after this step, when Latvia and Estonia will also see the results of the study, it will be possible to start talking about a joint test of the isolated operation of the electricity system,” he said.

According to Kreivys, the study’s results will help the Baltic countries to decide whether to exict the BRELL agreement. He says he is convinced that such a decision should be taken only together.

The Latvian minister said that his country’s possible participation in a joint Baltic isolated test would depend on the results of the Lithuanian test and also on the readiness of the Latvian system.

Latvia will help ensure that the test on 22 April goes smoothly, Čudars said.

The Baltic States have agreed to disconnect from the post-Soviet BRELL ring, which also includes Russia and Belarus, and to synchronise their electricity grids with Western Europe by the end of 2025.

 

WE WILL DO OUR UTMOST TO BAR RUSSIAN, BELARUSIAN ATHLETES FROM OLYMPICS, MINISTER SAYS

 

Vilnius, April 13 (ELTA) – On Thursday, Baltic and Polish sport ministers held a remote meeting to discuss further steps together and individually to prevent Russian and Belarusian from competing at international events.

"The efforts to bring Russian and Belarusian athletes back into competition under the guise of neutrality only reinforces the propaganda of these countries and allows them to continue to spread the lie that not everyone sees Russia or Belarus as the aggressors,” Jurgita Šiugždinienė, Lithuanian Minister of Education, Science and Sport, said.

"We do not accept this, and we are and will continue to do our utmost to ensure that the international federations do not allow these countries to participate in the Olympic qualifiers. It is very important to us that our athletes take part in the Olympic qualifiers without having to compete against the representatives of the aggressors,” she stressed.

According to the ministry, Lithuania was supported in the meeting in its call to invite sports federations to sign joint declarations opposing the participation of Russian and Belarusian athletes in international competitions. Such statements would be sent to both the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and other international federations. Lithuania and Poland have already signed such declarations.

The ministers and sport officials also discussed the possibility of appealing to international business organisations having offices in Russia and Belarus, asking them not to sponsor international competitions involving representatives of the aggressors.

The Estonian official suggested contacting broadcasters of the Olympic Games. Lithuania proposed to approach France at governmental level and request banning Russian and Belarusian athletes from the Paris Olympics.

It was agreed in the meeting that the participating countries will organise a joint discussion next week, after familiarising themselves with the fourth statement on Russia’s war against Ukraine and international sport proposed by the United Kingdom.

As earlier reported, in February this year, sport ministers and officials from 35 countries signed a joint statement calling on the IOC to prevent Russian and Belarusian athletes from competing again as Russia continues its war in Ukraine.

 

EIF, NOVITI FINANCE AGREE TO LEND UP TO EUR 47MN FOR MICRO-BUSINESSES

 

Vilnius, April 13 (ELTA) – The European Investment Fund (EIF) and Noviti Finance, Lithuania’s alternative non-bank business financier, have signed a portfolio guarantee agreement under which almost EUR 47 million will be lent on preferential terms to micro-businesses in Lithuania, Latvia, and Poland, the EIF said in a press release.

The EIF guarantee benefiting the microfinance business is provided under the European Union’s InvestEU programme. It is expected that around 2,640 microloans will be signed under this programme and micro-enterprises with up to ten employees and annual revenues of up to EUR 2 million will be able to borrow up to EUR 50,000.

Businesses will not be asked to pledge any assets, and, in some cases, loans will even be granted without any collateral. Loans will be granted for both investment and working capital purposes.

"This new agreement with Noviti Finance, backed by the InvestEU programme, will support micro-businesses that struggle with traditional lending and are faced with different financial pressures today. We are especially proud that besides going to Lithuania and Latvia, part of the lending will be channelled to the Polish market which is currently underserved in terms of financing to small businesses and micro-enterprises,” EIF Chief Executive Marjut Falkstedt said.

CEO of Noviti Finance Linas Armalys welcomed the fact that the new guarantee will open up the possibility for even more companies to obtain finance on more favourable terms. "Micro-enterprises with up to ten employees account for 84% of all small businesses operating in Lithuania. However, they are the ones that have most difficulty accessing finance. Small businesses have much smaller needs and often have no tangible assets to pledge. The situation is similar in neighbouring countries such as Latvia and Poland. In all three countries, this programme will make a significant contribution to the availability of finance for small businesses.” 

European Commission Executive Vice-President for an Economy that Works for People Valdis Dombrovskis said: "InvestEU plays a crucial role in helping small EU businesses get the financing they need to grow, innovate and create jobs. Thanks to today’s new InvestEU agreement, micro-businesses in Lithuania, Latvia and Poland will benefit from loans that are tailored to their needs. This will enable them to overcome the obstacles they face in accessing finance so that they can reach their full potential.”

The importance of the latest agreement with the EIF is confirmed by the results of Noviti Finance over the last few years. Under two previous agreements with the EIF, Noviti Finance disbursed loans to micro-enterprises in a much shorter timeframe than anticipated. The first EIF guarantee of EUR 10 million in 2020 was deployed within 16 months. Last year’s guarantee of EUR 12.5 million in loans was disbursed even faster — within a year. As many as 1,305 companies received concessional finance under this agreement.

"The last few years have been difficult for business, but it is encouraging that companies are adapting quickly to the changing environment and are actively applying to us for financing,” adds Armalys.

At the beginning of 2023, Noviti Finance also started providing business loans in Poland, where it plans to finance more than 200 small businesses and distribute EUR 3 million in loans this year.

The company estimates that in Lithuania last year, small and medium-sized businesses borrowed, on average, for 27 months and the average loan amount issued was around EUR 16,000. In Lithuania, 75% of all loans granted by Noviti Finance were guaranteed by the EIF. In Latvia, the percentage was even higher at 91%.

Noviti Finance has been operating on the market since 2016. The company has financed more than 3,500 companies in the Baltic States, where Noviti Finance actively contributes to the promotion of small businesses.

In Lithuania, Noviti Finance is an official partner of Invega and also lends to small businesses through the EIF’s InvestEU programme. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Noviti Finance actively implemented state support measures for businesses and was the second largest financier in terms of "Loans to businesses most affected by COVID-19”.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Friday, April 14

OFFICE of THE PRESIDENT

15:00

To meet with Andriy Kostin, Prosecutor General of Ukraine (Presidential Palace, S. Daukanto 3).

 

SEIMAS

 

9:00

To attend an inauguration ceremony held for Trakai district mayor and councillors at the Užutrakis Manor.

Office of the Government

8:30

To hold an internal meeting.

9:00

To hold a working meeting.

13:00

To hold a working meeting.

14:00

To hold a working meeting.

 

MINISTRIES

 

Minister of Finance Gintarė Skaistė:

To continue attending the Spring Meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington.

 

PRESS CONFERENCE

 

11:00

Ombudswoman for the Equal Opportunities Birutė Sabatauskaitė to present a report on the office’s activities for 2022 at the Seimas.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

ESTONIAN EMPLOYERS SAY GOVERNMENT GAVE THEM AN ULTIMATUM OVER MINIMUM WAGE

 

Tallinn, April 13 (ELTA) –Arto Aas, executive manager of the Estonian Employers Confederation, told the public broadcaster ERR that the government should not meddle in hiking the minimum wage if it wants to respect European practice, and that employers were told to get it done or the new coalition would do it for them.

Aas told the Uudis+ radio show that the minimum wage in Estonia has been hiked by 11-12 percent annually in cooperation between employers and unions, which has exceeded forecasts of around 8 percent.

While Estonia has around 650,000 workers, only tens of thousands make the minimum wage.

"It is not much. However, minimum wage hikes also affect other lower end salaries. Its effect on salaries and growth is considerable, while certain state expenses, benefits and services are also tied to the minimum wage. So, the effects go beyond a few tens of thousands of people,” Aas said.

 

ESTONIA’S BORDER STABLE BUT BELARUSIAN MIGRATION ATTACK NOT OVER – BORDER GUARDS

 

Tallinn, April 13 (ELTA) – Border guards from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland met on the island of Saaremaa on Thursday to discuss cooperation, threats and possible incidents on Belarus and Russia’s borders, Estonia’s public broadcaster ERR reports.

Head of Estonia’s Police and Border Guard Board (PPA) Egert Belitšev said the situation on the Estonian border is stable but said it must be taken into account that Russia is waging an active war.

"It is important to remember that this migration attack is not over. There are still people on the borders of Poland, Lithuania and Latvia who are trying to get in and who have been organized and targeted by the Belarusian authorities,” Belitšev said.

He highlighted that these migration routes are not spontaneous and are organized by Belarus.

 

LATVIAN PRESIDENT GRANTED STATUS OF AN HONORARY CITIZEN OF LISBON

 

Riga, April 13 (ELTA) – Latvian President Egils Levits Thursday met with Mayor of Lisbon Carlos Moedas as part of his state visit to Portugal, highlighting the role of Lisbon in organising various European and international events, the presidency reports.

Levits expressed Latvia’s interest in cooperation in transport, IT and other areas, also noting the mayor’s previous work experience as Commissioner for Research, Innovation and Science at the European Commission. The President of Latvia appreciated the contribution of Lisbon, as a sister city of Kyiv, by hosting Ukrainian refugees and providing support to Kyiv.

Moedas referred to the visit of the mayor of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, to Lisbon last week, during which he had heard many complimentary words about the great support of the society and the president of Latvia for Ukraine. Moedas underlined the historic spirit of resistance and freedom of the Latvian people, which is also reflected in the Constitution.

The mayor of Lisbon highly appreciated the president’s support for multilateralism, democracy and international law, awarding Levits the status of honorary citizen of Lisbon. The president of Latvia thanked Moedas for the honour he had received and for Portugal’s hospitality during the state visit.

 

LATVIAN RAILWAYS ALREADY IN TALKS WITH GRAIN FARMING COMPANIES, AHEAD OF HARVEST SEASON

 

Riga, April 13 (ELTA) – Members of SJSC Latvijas dzelzceļš (Latvian Railways, LDz) Board have met with the management of Latvian grain farmers’ cooperative VAKS to discuss further cooperation so that this year’s grain crops are also shipped to their destinations by rail as quickly as possible, without compromising grain quality, the Latvian Railways said.

VAKS cooperative society’s Board Chairman Indulis Jansons said that he had a high opinion of cooperation with LDz subsidiaries LDZ CARGO Ltd. and LDZ Loģistika Ltd. in grain transportation: "VAKS has been a customer of LDz Group for a long time, and members of the cooperative are planning to use railways for transportation of their freights more actively in the future because this is a sustainable, reliable and environmentally friendly way of transporting goods.”

During the meeting, LDz Chairman of the Board Rinalds Pļavnieks said: "In terms of volume, grain products make up the largest part of our domestic cargo transportation volumes, and each year we transport significant and even record-breaking amounts of crops. However, these freights are highly seasonal, so a large number of wagons must be available for transportation in a short period of time. LDz subsidiaries have a high capacity and their ability to provide these transport services in very tense circumstances meets grain farmers’ needs. At the same time, it is essential that all the involved parties cooperate, therefore we appreciate that grain farmers who want to ship freights by rail plan their requirements in good time, discuss them with us, so that the number of wagons our customers need is available for this purpose in the busiest time of the season.”

Companies of LDz Group provide logistics services tailored for customers’ needs, they have established long-time cooperation with representatives of the industry, who will in the near future receive an inquiry from LDz asking them to indicate the provisional number of wagons needed for transportation of their products this season, so that LDz could provide uninterrupted transportation services.

The number of wagons used for grain transportation varies from year to year, depending on both the harvest in the given year and the projected grain transportation volumes. Wagon shortages can, for example, be caused by situations where grain wagons are actually used as grain "storage facilities”, when produce is stored in wagons for a disproportionately long time. Therefore LDz advises its customers to carefully plan further grain logistics so that LDz could ensure continuous transportation and guarantee the delivery of grain to a destination without a hitch.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020230414ej4e000b5


Programme summary of Moldova One TV Mesager news 13 Apr 23
655 字
2023 年 4 月 14 日 13:22 GMT
BBC Monitoring Ukraine & Baltics
BBCUKB
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
Summary of programme broadcast on public broadcaster Moldova One TV on 13 April at 18:00 GMT

Presenter Elena Bancila.

1. 0010 Headlines over video.

2. 0120 The Court of Appeal sentences the leader of the populist opposition Sor Party, fugitive MP Ilan Sor, to 15 years in prison and confiscation of assets worth $276m. Sor sayson Facebook that the verdict is "illegal" and allegedly "made under pressure". Sor's lawyer Iulian Balan says the ruling will be appealed in the Supreme Court. President Maia Sandu and the head of the parliamentary commission for legal affairs, appointments and immunity, PAS MP Olesea Stamate, welcome the ruling. Video report.

3. 0532 Foreign Minister Nicu Popescu and Defence Minister Anatolie Nosatii take part in the trilateral Romania-Ukraine-Moldova regional security talks in Bucharest. Romanian Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu says his country supports Moldova's calls on the EU to sanction fugitive oligarchs who are seeking to destabilise the country. Popescu says that there is no imminent military threat to Moldova thanks to Ukraine's resistance but the country remains vunerable to Russia's and its cronies' hybrid attacks. Romanian Defence Minister Angel Tilvar says that Russia represents the "most significant and direct threat" to the Europe. Ukrainian Defence Minister Oleksiy Reznikov says the Russian war against Ukraine "poses a threat all the entire Sea of Azov and Black Sea region". The Moldovan, Romanian and Ukrainian sign a declaration in support of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's peace plan. Correspondent's report.

4. 0802 Foreign news: Romania hosts the Crimea Platform Black Sea Security Conference.

5. 1121 Pundit Nicolae Negru comments in studio on the Moldova-Romania-Ukraine trilateral talks in Bucharest. He says that the Western assistance for Ukraine strengthens Moldova's security. He predicts that the three countries will significantly boost energy and infrastructure cooperation.

6. 1832 The Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office says there is no evidence to substantiate populist opposition Sor Party MP Marina Tauber's allegations that Moldova and Romania are planning a false-flag "military provocation" in the breakaway Dniester region. Presenter-read report.

7. 1855 Members of the pro-Russian opposition Party of Socialists, MPs Adrian Lebedinschi and Grigore Novak, welcome the Constitutional Court decision to partially lift a ban on the Russian war symbols, including the St George ribbon. Speaker Igor Grosu says the St George is a symbol of the Russian aggression and law enforcers should prevent attempts to promote the Russian war in Moldova. Correspondent's report.

8. 2243 The leader of the pro-Russian opposition Communist Party, MP Vladimir Voronin, calls for tabling a bill that will criminalise calls for unification with Romania. He also says that top officials should not be dual nationals. Correspondent's report.

9. 2534 Chisinau mayor Ion Ceban says his MAN party will join the pro-European rally called by President Maia Sandu for 21 May. He says his party supports Moldova's cooperation with Europe. Correspondent's report.

10. 2723 The ballot papers for the 30 April governor election in Gagauzia will be printed in the Romanian, Russian and Gagauz languages. Correspondent's report.

11. 2920 Moldova will make a test purchase of gas from Greece. Video report.

12. 3212 Six public sector employees suspected of corruption are detained for 30 days. Correspondent's report.

13. 3321 The Foreign Ministry condemns the "barbaric" beheading of a Ukrainian POW by the Russian troops. Presenter-read report.

14. 3432 Foreign news: An update from the frontline in Ukraine; Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal visits the USA; Russian President Vladimir Putin reportedly "personally" approved the arrest of the Wall Street Journal journalist on espionage charges; protests in France.

15. 3932 Moldovans are preparing for Easter celebrated by Orthodox Christians on 16 April. Correspondent's report.

16. 4121 Presenter signs off.

Source: Moldova One TV, Chisinau, in Romanian 1800 gmt 13 Apr 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCUKB0020230414ej4e000xd


ForMin Aurescu: Romania firmly believes that justice must be done in relation to crimes committed in Ukraine
388 字
2023 年 5 月 9 日 16:07 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2023 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, May 9 /Agerpres/ - Romania firmly believes that justice must be done in relation to all the crimes committed in the context of Russia's war against Ukraine, including the crime of aggression. It is not an easy path, given the legal complexity of the issue, but we are not discouraged in the face of difficult tasks, Foreign Affairs minister Bogdan Aurescu said on Tuesday at the summit of the leaders of the member states of the Coalition (Core Group) on the creation of a Special Tribunal on the crime of aggression against Ukraine.

MAE said in a press release that minister Bogdan Aurescu reaffirmed Romania's unequivocal support for the fundamental objective of ensuring justice, based on international law instruments, and holding the guilty accountable.

Bogdan Aurescu stressed, in this regard, that Romania, as a country with recognized expertise in the field of international law, has responded promptly to the request of the Ukrainian side regarding the creation of the Core Group for the establishment of the Tribunal, actively participating in the discussions on this issue held so far, given the legal complexity of the problem.

The Summit of the Core Group Member States on the establishment of a Special Tribunal on the Crime of Aggression against Ukraine was organised by Ukraine in an online format. The participants are officials from the states that are actively involved in efforts to create a tribunal that will examine the crime of aggression in the context of the Russian Federation's war against Ukraine.

On the occasion of the Summit, a Joint Declaration was adopted reaffirming the commitment of the participating States to the importance of achieving the objective of bringing to international justice those responsible for planning and committing the crime of aggression against Ukraine and affirming support for a Special Tribunal with jurisdiction in this matter.

The creation of such a tribunal is necessary, given the current lack of an international jurisdictional mechanism to sanction the commission of the crime of aggression in Ukraine, as the Russian Federation is not a party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the MAE release further mentioned.AGERPRES(RO - author: Florentina Peia, editor: Mihai Simionescu; EN - author: Simona Iacob, editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020230509ej590035x


ForMin Aurescu, US officials discuss Ukraine war developments
655 字
2023 年 5 月 19 日 16:35 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2023 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, May 19 /Agerpres/ - Minister of Foreign Affairs Bogdan Aurescu welcomed received on Friday US Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources Richard R. Verma, and US Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs Jessica Lewis, accompanied by US Ambassador to Romania Kathleen Kavalec.

According to a Foreign Affairs Ministry (MAE) press release sent to AGERPRES, the consultations addressed developments regarding Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine and the coordinated support that Romania and the US offer to the neighbouring country on all levels, as well as to strengthen Moldova's resilience.

Minister Aurescu underlined the substantial progress made in the last year by the Strategic Partnership between Romania and the US, highlighting the role of Romania as a predictable and reliable partner of Washington.

'From the perspective of Romania's priorities on the bilateral agenda, the head of the Romanian diplomacy mentioned the importance of continued coordination at the transatlantic level, strengthening regional resilience, cooperation in the area of defense, continued implementation of energy projects and access to the Visa Waiver Program. He thanked the US for its contribution to strengthening NATO's Eastern Flank by substantially increasing the US military presence in Romania,' the release reads.

He also underlined the importance of the progress achieved in 2022 in the implementation of the Cernavoda power plant project and the Small Modular Nuclear Reactors (SMR) project in Doicesti, achievements with an impact on the strengthening of the Romanian-US bilateral cooperation in the area of new technologies, with potential also at regional level.

Regarding the situation in Ukraine, the head of the Romanian diplomacy highlighted the significant support provided by Romania to the neighbouring country and stressed that Bucharest will continue its multidimensional support efforts for Ukraine as long as necessary.

The Romanian Head of Diplomacy also mentioned Romania's intensive outreach efforts to third countries, highlighting recent bilateral discussions with counterparts from India, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, on the sidelines of the EU Ministerial Forum on the Indo-Pacific region he recently attended, as well as discussions with African states.

Regarding the situation in the Republic of Moldova and the bilateral and multilateral support still needed for this state, Minister Aurescu underlined Romania's 'essential' contribution to ensuring Moldova's energy security and the joint cooperation projects in this area.

'He also highlighted the importance of the measures adopted at the European Union level to support the authorities in Chisinau, including the new sanction regime proposed by the Romanian Foreign Minister and recently created, as well as the EU civilian mission also recently established. Coordination on sanctions was agreed. Minister Aurescu also also praised the US efforts to increase Moldova's resilience. He also highlighted Romania's constant and firm support for the common European path of Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova,' according to the press release.

Minister Aurescu also presented the need to implement the decisions of the NATO Summit in Madrid and Romania's objectives for the Vilnius meeting, with a focus on strengthening forward defence on the Eastern flank.

The Department of State delegation presented the US perspectives on the topics discussed, stressing the importance of the Strategic Partnership between Romania and the US, as well as Romania's regional leadership role, the MAE said.

The US representatives also reiterated the US firm commitment to strengthening resilience in the region, including to the Republic of Moldova, stressing that the US has significantly increased its assistance to this country, including for its energy security.

At the same time, the US officials underlined their strong support for Romania's progress on the Visa Waiver file.

They also mentioned the US interest in strengthening bilateral Romanian-American cooperation in the Black Sea region, welcoming Romania's expertise and its substantial contribution to the development of the US Black Sea Strategy. AGERPRES (RO - author: Daniel Florea, editor: Claudia Stanescu; EN - author: Adina Panaitescu)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020230519ej5j002s1


ForMin Aurescu participating in Foreign Affairs Council meeting
568 字
2023 年 5 月 22 日 07:11 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2023 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, May 22 /Agerpres/ - Bogdan Aurescu will participate on Monday in the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union member states (Foreign Affairs Council - FAC), which will take place in Brussels.

According to MAE, the ministers will have in-depth discussions on countering the effects of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the situation in the Horn of Africa.

European officials will also briefly address the EU engagement with Central Asia, developments in Tunisia, Armenia-Azerbaijan relations in the context of the EU's high-level diplomatic contacts with both countries.

European foreign ministers will also exchange views with foreign ministers from the Western Balkans, continuing the practice initiated at the May 2022 FAC meeting of inviting partners from the region once a year to European foreign ministers' discussions.

On the sidelines of the FAC meeting, the Romanian foreign minister will take part in an informal breakfast of the Group of Friends on qualified majority voting in the areas of the EU Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and will participate in the launch event of the EU Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) Civil Compact, which will take place after the FAC meeting.

The exchange of views on Russia's aggression against Ukraine will focus on military support for Ukraine, sanctions imposed on the aggressor, the Peace Formula proposed by President Zelensky and diplomatic efforts with third states to mobilise international support for Ukraine's initiative.

Minister Bogdan Aurescu will reiterate Romania's 'firm, multidimensional and continuous support' for Ukraine and will express the hope of reaching an agreement as soon as possible on the adoption of the eighth support package for the Ukrainian Armed Forces within the framework of the European Peace Facility.

Minister Aurescu will stress the importance of maintaining, in parallel with EU military support, pressure on Russia by strengthening the sanctions regime - both through the adoption of the 11th sanction package and through measures to avoid circumvention of restrictions by third states. On holding Russia accountable, he will reiterate the idea of creating a Crime of Aggression Tribunal.

In the exchange of views with Western Balkan partners, ministers will address cooperation and common interests in the CFSP area, as well as the challenges facing the region.

The head of the Romanian diplomacy will reiterate the support for the European perspective of the Western Balkans partners. He will also present Romania's vision of the current difficult context, marked by the Russian aggression against Ukraine, with implications for the Western Balkans region. Minister Bogdan Aurescu will stress the importance of increased EU-Western Balkans cooperation in the areas of combating cyber attacks, external interference and information manipulation, in view of increasing the resilience of the region and a stronger pro-European strategic communication.

Discussions on the Horn of Africa take place against the background of recent developments in the region, including in Sudan. European ministers will be invited to assess these developments, their impact on regional stability and the EU's response. Minister Bogdan Aurescu will express support for the EU's diplomatic outreach efforts at regional and international level, particularly in the context of the increasing risks of regional contagion from the crisis in Sudan and the possible extension of the Wagner Group's influence in the region. AGERPRES (RO - author: Oana Ghita, editor: Catalina Matei; EN - author: Adina Panaitescu, editor: Cristina Zaharia)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020230522ej5m000b5


ForMin Aurescu: I will insist for adoption of 11th round of sanctions against Russia
323 字
2023 年 5 月 22 日 12:43 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2023 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, May 22 /Agerpres/ - Foreign Affairs Minister Bogdan Aurescu declared on Monday, before attending the EU Foreign Affairs Council meeting in Brussels, that he will 'insist' that a new sanction package against Russia is adopted as soon as possible.

'I will support the approval of the eighth military aid package for Ukraine from the European Peace Facility. At the same time, I will insist that the 11th round of sanctions against Russia is adopted, as well as the measures to prevent the circumvention of these sanctions,' the Romanian foreign minister pointed out.

He said that one of the topics he will tackle at the FAC meeting is Romania's multidimensional assistance to Ukraine, which includes support for the people who fled the war and the transit of grain from the neighboring country.

'I will insist for the creation of a tribunal to prosecute aggression crimes [in Ukraine]. I think that a hybrid court with a strong international presence could be one of the viable solutions,' Aurescu added.

He welcomed the creation of the EU mission to the Republic of Moldova and the fact that it is led by a Romanian diplomat, Cosmin Dinescu.

At the FAC meeting, the foreign minister will present the situation of the procedures launched by Romania together with other states for applying targeted sanctions to the persons listed as 'acting against the stability of the Republic of Moldova'.

Aurescu noted that these sanctions were launched in 'record time' since his proposal, on February 20. 'I hope that these lists are adopted as fast as possible,' he said.

'Amid Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the [Russian] campaign of disinformation and propaganda, it is important that we create a common space of resilience, together with the Western Balkan states,' the Romanian foreign minister underscored. AGERPRES (RO - author: Oana Ghita, editor: Mihai Simionescu; EN - editor: Simona Klodnischi)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020230522ej5m0025t


MIL-OSI Europe: JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION on the sustainable reconstruction and integration of Ukraine into the Euro-Atlantic community – RC-B9-0270/2023
3865 字
2023 年 6 月 15 日
ForeignAffairs.co.nz
PARALL
英文
Copyright 2023. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.
Source: European Parliament

Michael Gahler, Andrius Kubilius, Rasa Juknevičienė, Željana Zovko, David McAllister, Vangelis Meimarakis, Siegfried Mureşan, Jerzy Buzek, Isabel Wiseler‑Lima, Traian Băsescu, Vladimír Bilčík, Gheorghe Falcă, Tomasz Frankowski, Sunčana Glavak, Andrzej Halicki, Sandra Kalniete, Andrey Kovatchev, David Lega, Miriam Lexmann, Antonio López‑Istúriz White, Elżbieta Katarzyna Łukacijewska, Aušra Maldeikienė, Lukas Mandl, Liudas Mažylis, Dace Melbārde, Gheorghe‑Vlad Nistor, Janina Ochojska, Radosław Sikorski, Michaela Šojdrová, Eugen Tomac, Inese Vaidere, Tom Vandenkendelaere, Tomáš Zdechovský, Milan Zver

on behalf of the PPE Group

Pedro Marques, Tonino Picula, Sven Mikser, Juozas Olekas

on behalf of the S&D Group

Petras Auštrevičius, Izaskun Bilbao Barandica, Nicola Beer, José Ramón Bauzá Díaz, Katalin Cseh, Bernard Guetta, Klemen Grošelj, Karin Karlsbro, Ilhan Kyuchyuk, Nathalie Loiseau, Karen Melchior, Javier Nart, Urmas Paet, Frédérique Ries, Michal Šimečka, Ramona Strugariu, Dragoş Tudorache

on behalf of the Renew Group

Viola von Cramon‑Taubadel

on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group

Anna Fotyga, Ryszard Czarnecki, Alexandr Vondra, Veronika Vrecionová, Jadwiga Wiśniewska, Anna Zalewska, Dominik Tarczyński, Bogdan Rzońca, Elżbieta Rafalska, Witold Jan Waszczykowski, Roberts Zīle, Eugen Jurzyca, Zbigniew Kuźmiuk, Tomasz Piotr Poręba, Joachim Stanisław Brudziński

on behalf of the ECR Group

Motion for a European Parliament resolution on the sustainable reconstruction and integration of Ukraine into the Euro-Atlantic community

(2023/2739(RSP)[https://oeil.secure.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?lang=en&reference=2023/2739(RSP)])

The European Parliament,

- having regard to its previous resolutions on Ukraine, in particular since the escalation of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine in February 2022,

- having regard to the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part[1] and to the accompanying Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area between the European Union and Ukraine, signed in 2014,

- having regard to the application for EU membership by Ukraine on 28 February 2022, and to the consequent granting of candidate status by the European Council on 23 June 2022,

- having regard to the joint statement following the 24th EU-Ukraine Summit of 3 February 2023 in Kyiv,

- having regard to the NATO Bucharest summit declaration of 3 April 2008,

- having regard to the G7 Leaders’ Statement of 27 June 2022 on support for Ukraine and to the latest G7 Leaders’ Statement of 19 May 2023,

- having regard to the statement by Vice-President of the Commission / High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell and the Commissioner for Crisis Management Janez Lenarčič of 6 June 2023 on the destruction of the Kakhovka dam,

- having regard to the outcome document of the Ukraine Recovery Conference (URC2022) held in Lugano from 4 to 5 July 2022 and to the upcoming URC2023 in London from 21 to 22 June 2023,

- having regard to the outcome of the International Expert Conference on the Recovery, Reconstruction and Modernisation of Ukraine, held in Berlin on 25 October 2022,

- having regard to Rule 132(2) and (4) of its Rules of Procedure,

A. whereas since 24 February 2022, when Russia re-launched its unprovoked, unjustified and illegal war of aggression against Ukraine, the geopolitical situation in Europe has fundamentally changed; whereas this war of aggression constitutes a blatant and flagrant violation of the UN Charter and of the fundamental principles of international law; whereas the crimes committed by Russia against Ukraine, which include the crime of aggression, war crimes and crimes against humanity that may amount to genocide, require the full accountability of government officials, military leaders, media propagandists and other perpetrators, in line with international law; whereas Ukraine and its citizens have been determined in their resistance against Russia’s war of aggression and have successfully defended their country, albeit with a high cost in terms of civilian and military casualties, destroyed civilian and critical infrastructure and the destruction of the natural environment and cultural heritage sites; whereas a third of the Ukrainian population have fled their homes and the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) is estimated to have decreased by at least one third in 2022; whereas Russia’s actions in Ukraine over the past 16 months continue to threaten peace and security in Europe and worldwide;

B. whereas Ukraine, as an independent and sovereign country, possesses the fundamental right to determine its own future; whereas this includes the freedom to choose its alliances, to establish its own policies and to pursue its national interests in line with the will of its people; whereas a strong, stable and independent Ukraine is vital for the stability of the Euro-Atlantic area and crucial for fostering European and global peace and stability, and upholding the principles of democracy and international law;

C. whereas Ukraine is a candidate country for EU membership and has received massive support from the EU in all areas; whereas Ukraine has made tangible progress in advancing crucial reforms and demonstrates a clear commitment to EU and NATO integration; whereas in October 2023, the Commission will submit a report on Ukraine’s progress in implementing the seven recommendations indicated in the Commission opinion of 17 June 2022 on the country’s application for EU membership; whereas the European Council is expected to decide on Ukraine’s preparedness for EU membership and further steps on its European path at its meeting in December 2023;

D. whereas the EU and its Member States, together with international partners and NATO allies, have been providing substantial military support to assist Ukraine in exercising its legitimate right to self-defence against Russia’s war of aggression;

E. whereas, in the NATO Bucharest summit declaration, the allies welcomed Ukraine’s Euro-Atlantic aspirations and agreed that it would become a NATO member; whereas every round of NATO enlargement has followed the principle that it should bring additional security to the existing members; whereas the upcoming NATO summit in Vilnius in July 2023 will have to address the question of how to follow up on the statement of support for Ukraine’s membership issued in Bucharest in 2008;

F. whereas the Kakhovka dam, located on the Dnipro river in the Russian-occupied part of southern Ukraine, was deliberately destroyed in an act of terrorism on 6 June 2023; whereas the blast resulted in a massive breach in the dam, with water flooding downstream in the direction of Kherson; whereas the breach in the dam caused several deaths, forced the evacuation of the local civilian population, destroyed infrastructure, homes and wildlife, and led to water being contaminated with industrial chemicals and oil; whereas Ukraine has estimated that tens of thousands of people remain stranded in the affected area and hundreds of thousands have been left without access to safe drinking water; whereas landmines have been dislodged by the flooding, prompting serious safety concerns; whereas tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural land have been damaged and the draining of the Kakhovka Reservoir will leave 584 000 hectares of agricultural land unirrigated; whereas the vast reservoir provided cooling water for the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant (NPP) and the decrease in water levels poses an additional threat to it;

G. whereas the second Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment by the Government of Ukraine, the World Bank Group, the Commission and the United Nations, published on 23 March 2023, estimates that the cost of reconstruction and recovery in Ukraine has grown to at least EUR 383 billion; whereas this figure is to increase further as more infrastructure is damaged or destroyed, as exemplified by the recent destruction of the Kakhovka dam; whereas the Multi-agency Donor Coordination Platform for Ukraine was launched on 26 January 2023, bringing together high-level officials from Ukraine, the EU, G7 countries and international financial institutions such as the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank; whereas the platform is intended to act as a catalyst, for mobilising the international commitments required to respond to Ukraine’s needs;

1. Reiterates its unwavering solidarity with and pays tribute to the brave people and leaders of Ukraine, who are courageously defending their country’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity;

2. Reiterates its condemnation, in the strongest terms, of Russia’s unprovoked, illegal and unjustified war of aggression against Ukraine and of the involvement of the regime in Belarus; calls on Russia to immediately terminate all military activities in Ukraine and to completely and unconditionally withdraw all forces, proxies and military equipment from the entire internationally recognised territory of Ukraine, to end its forced deportations of Ukrainian civilians and to release all detained and deported Ukrainians, particularly children;

3. Reaffirms its determination to continue supporting Ukraine until the full restoration and control of its internationally recognised borders and throughout the process of Ukraine’s sustainable recovery and reconstruction; acknowledges the resilience and determination demonstrated by the Ukrainian people in their pursuit of democratic values, reform efforts and aspirations for integration into the Euro-Atlantic community of nations;

4. Condemns in the strongest possible terms the destruction by Russia of the Kakhovka dam on 6 June 2023, which brought about extensive flooding, caused an environmental disaster and ecocide in Ukraine and constitutes a war crime; reiterates that all those responsible for such war crimes, including the destruction of the dam, will be held accountable in line with international law; welcomes the rapid activation of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism; calls on the Commission and the Member States to provide all the essential assistance required in the flooded area, in particular equipment and machinery for relief efforts, drinking water and food; expresses alarm that the destruction of the Kakhovka dam could also jeopardise the safety of the Zaporizhzhia NPP; supports the International Criminal Court investigation into the destruction of the Kakhovka dam;

5. Expresses its continued concern about the situation at the Zaporizhzhia NPP, which is illegally occupied and controlled by the Russian Federation; demands that International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) personnel be granted immediate access to all facilities at the Zaporizhzhia NPP; supports efforts to maintain a continued IAEA presence at the Zaporizhzhia NPP; underlines the importance of reinforcing the international framework for the protection of nuclear facilities devoted to peaceful purposes, including in armed conflicts; reiterates its deep concern about the broader long-term environmental impact of the conflict; recalls and condemns Russia’s previous acts of ecocide against Ukraine’s flora and fauna, including the logging of Ukrainian forests, the mining of large areas and the poisoning of air and water resources;

6. Underlines that the peace brought by Ukraine’s victory must be secured by integrating Ukraine into the EU and NATO; reiterates, in this context, its support for the European Council’s decision to grant EU candidate status to Ukraine; hopes for a positive recommendation from the Commission following the fulfilment of the seven steps set out in the Commission opinion on Ukraine’s EU membership application; calls on the Council and the Commission to set out a clear pathway for the start of the accession negotiations, based on a step-by-step approach, focusing on providing tangible benefits for Ukrainian society and citizens from the start of the process; urges the Commission and the Member States to continue to support Ukraine so that its EU accession negotiations can be opened this year and notes that this could be followed by an intergovernmental conference within the same time frame; reaffirms its commitment to Ukraine’s membership of the EU, which represents a geostrategic shift and investment in a united and strong Europe;

7. Reiterates its call for an innovative, complementary and flexible interaction between the ongoing work on the implementation of the Association Agreement in force and the accession negotiation process, thus allowing for Ukraine’s gradual integration into the EU single market and sectoral programmes, including access to EU funds in the respective areas; urges the Member States to abstain from any unilateral actions that would limit Ukraine’s access to the EU single market;

8. Underlines that the process of accession to the EU must take place in accordance with Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union, based on respect for the relevant procedures and conditional upon the fulfilment of the established criteria, in particular the Copenhagen criteria for EU membership, and remains a merit-based process that requires the adoption and implementation of relevant reforms, in particular in the areas of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, a market economy and the implementation of the EU acquis; urges Ukraine to prioritise strengthening the rule of law, continuing the reform of its judiciary and fighting corruption, as progress in these areas will determine not only its progress on the European path but also the success of its reconstruction and recovery; strongly believes that a firm, merit-based prospect of EU membership for Ukraine is in the Union’s own political, economic and security interests;

9. Encourages the EU and its Member States to provide increased support and assistance to Ukraine on its path to EU accession, including in terms of technical expertise, capacity-building and the institutional reforms necessary to meet the membership criteria; underlines that the Union itself must undertake the reforms needed in view of future enlargements;

10. Welcomes the decision of the Council of Europe summit of 17 May 2023 in Reykjavík to set up a register for damage caused by Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, which serves as one of the first steps towards an international compensation mechanism for victims of Russia’s war of aggression; calls on the remaining Council of Europe members to join the agreement as soon as possible; reiterates, in this context, its call on the EU institutions and Member States to ambitiously advance their work towards establishing a legal basis for the confiscation of Russian public assets for the purpose of financing Ukraine’s reconstruction and compensating the victims of Russia’s aggression; underlines its conviction that once the war ends, Russia must be obliged to pay the reparations imposed on it to ensure that it makes a substantial contribution to the reconstruction of Ukraine;

11. Highlights the importance of linking Ukraine’s reconstruction with the country’s EU accession preparations and ongoing domestic reforms; reiterates that damaged infrastructure and industrial capacity should be rebuilt in accordance with the ‘build back better’ principle and the goals of the European Green Deal, with the aim of promoting a carbon-free and digital economy and transforming Ukraine into a modern European welfare state and market economy;

12. Underscores the need to prioritise a comprehensive EU recovery package for Ukraine, which should be focused on the country’s immediate, medium- and long-term relief, reconstruction and recovery; calls for the recovery package to be supported by credible and adequate EU funding in line with the needs, and looks forward to the Commission’s proposals on the midterm revision of the current multiannual financial framework and on the financing of Ukrainian reconstruction efforts in the coming years through the Rebuild Ukraine facility, once it has been established;

13. Acknowledges the work done by Ukraine, the EU, the G7, international financial institutions and other like-minded partners to develop a recovery and reconstruction plan for Ukraine; welcomes and supports the seven guiding principles of the Lugano Declaration in particular; calls on the Commission, together with the EU’s and Ukraine’s international partners, to convene another high-level conference dedicated to Ukraine’s reconstruction and recovery process, which would build on the results of the 2022 Lugano and Berlin international conferences and the upcoming London international conference, and would also contribute to more closely intertwining the reconstruction process with Ukraine’s European integration process; welcomes the EU’s intention to play a leading role, in particular through the Multi-agency Donor Coordination Platform agreed with Ukraine, the G7, international financial institutions and other key partners; underscores the need for the European Parliament to be involved as an observer; highlights the importance of good coordination and a proper division of labour between donors and Ukraine; underscores the need to ensure full Ukrainian ownership of the reconstruction process, with the close involvement of civil society organisations and local authorities; urges the EU, the Member States and international financial institutions to provide conditional grants rather than loans;

14. Highlights that demining and the clearance of unexploded ordnance (UXO) are prerequisites for Ukraine’s reconstruction, including its agricultural production, which is vital for the country’s economy and for global food security; recalls that a large part of Ukraine’s territory is contaminated by mines and UXO; highlights the fact that the current demining and clearance efforts do not cover the demand for these activities; stresses that demining and the clearance of UXO need to be sped up in order to be able to provide assistance of the requisite magnitude to the parts of the country that have been most affected by the Russian aggression; highlights that these efforts will require comprehensive, long-term funding;

15. Calls on the Ukrainian Government to continue to strengthen local self-government and to embed the success of the decentralisation reform in the overall architecture of Ukraine’s repair, recovery and reconstruction processes by, inter alia, giving local authorities a prominent role in decision-making about reconstruction projects; draws attention to the Association of Ukrainian Cities and the European Alliance of Cities and Regions for the Reconstruction of Ukraine, the latter of which was launched on 30 June 2022 as a vehicle to map local and regional needs in Ukraine;

16. Expresses its conviction that Ukraine’s reconstruction and recovery process must be firmly based on the principles of social fairness and inclusion, gender equality, sustainability and green transformation, local ownership, transparency and accountability, and should be accompanied by effective mechanisms to monitor its implementation; underscores the importance of a transparent governance architecture, accountability and sound financial management; stresses the need to utilise environmental impact assessments for future reconstruction projects, particularly in protected sites, such as those in the Carpathian mountain range;

17. Underlines, in addition, the need to take into account the concerns, needs and expertise of internally displaced persons and refugees, as their reintegration into local communities will be crucial for strengthening Ukraine’s societal and institutional resilience and increasing its unity; recalls the looming challenge of addressing the suffering of victims and veterans, many of whom will have difficulty in fully integrating back into social life after the war is over, particularly those who were detained, tortured, raped or otherwise abused by the Russian occupying forces; reiterates that many of them will require long-term psychological and medical rehabilitation and reintegration assistance;

18. Reiterates its position that representatives of local self-government and civil society in Ukraine must be actively involved in the recovery and reconstruction process and that this process must meet the highest standards of transparency and accountability; calls for particular attention to be given to the to the needs and expectations of young and vulnerable groups;

19. Calls for the EU institutions and the Member States to maintain EU unity and to put increased pressure on Russia and its allies, including through further sanctions packages aimed at strategically weakening Russia’s war capacity; condemns the behaviour of the states, entities and individuals that help Russia to avoid the effects of EU sanctions; calls on the Commission and the Member States to develop a sanction circumvention prevention mechanism; calls on the Commission and the Member States to expand the sanctions to include a full ban, in all Member States, on the marketing and cutting of diamonds of Russian origin or re-exported by Russia, and to lower the price cap on Russian oil; reiterates its call for European companies to withdraw their operations from Russia; calls on the Member States to take particular measures to prevent advanced technology products that are being exported to non-EU countries from ending up in Russia; calls on the Member States to very strictly prosecute individuals or entities participating in the circumvention of EU sanctions; calls for the strengthening of restrictive measures against the regime in Belarus, which do not mirror the sanctions imposed on Russia despite numerous calls for them to do so;

20. Underlines that EU support goes far beyond the civilian sector and also encompasses far-reaching support in the military field; calls for the EU, the Member States and like-minded partners to enhance military cooperation with Ukraine, including through the provision of increased capabilities, training and capacity-building, in order to strengthen Ukraine’s defence capabilities to the level needed to liberate the internationally recognised territory of Ukraine and to deter further aggression; reiterates its support for these measures and for their substantial expansion and the need to make full use of the European Peace Facility in this respect;

21. Underlines that by successfully halting the Russian aggression, the Ukrainian army has proven to be one of the most battle-hardened and experienced armies in the world; acknowledges and commends Ukraine’s significant contribution to the security of the Euro-Atlantic area and the defence of its values by resisting Russia’s war of aggression; recalls the risks involved in leaving Ukraine languishing in a security grey area that would invite Russia to sustain hostilities in the long run;

22. Calls on the NATO allies to honour their commitment regarding Ukraine’s NATO membership and expects that the upcoming summits in Vilnius and Washington will pave the way for extending an invitation to Ukraine to join NATO and that the accession process will start after the war is over and be finalised as soon as possible; calls for the EU, the Member States, NATO allies and like-minded partners to work closely with Ukraine to develop a temporary framework for security guarantees, to be implemented immediately after the war, until full NATO membership is achieved; emphasises the fact that Ukraine’s integration into NATO and the EU would enhance regional and global security, promote stability and strengthen the bonds of cooperation and shared values between Ukraine and the Euro-Atlantic community;

23. Calls on the Commission, the European External Action Service and the Member States to strengthen strategic communication and provide relevant information on the mutual benefits of and opportunities presented by enlargement both in Ukraine and in the Member States, in order to further increase support and improve understanding of the accession process; calls on the Commission, the European External Action Service and the Member States to improve the visibility of EU funding and its tangible results in Ukraine; insists that EU and Ukrainian civil society should play an active role in implementing these objectives;

24. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Vice-President of the Commission / High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the President, Government and Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, the NATO Secretary General and the President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the President, Government and Parliament of the Russian Federation, the Council of Europe and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe.

MIL OSI Europe News[http://milnz.co.nz/mil-osi-aggregation/] -

Multimedia Investments Ltd

文件 PARALL0020230615ej6f000vu


Energo Monitor This Week - June 16, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 6 月 16 日, 4600 字, (英文)
Romania exports 11% of its electricity production in January-AprilNet exports of electricity in Romania reached 2.2TWh, or 11% of its gross production (20.85TWh) in January-April, according to the statistics office INS.

Energo Monitor This Week - June 23, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 6 月 23 日, 3593 字, (英文)
17.3% of Hidroelectrica for sale as IPO begins on Bucharest Stock ExchangeRomania’s Financial Supervisory Authority (ASF) on June 22 endorsed the prospectus filed by a syndicate of banks on behalf of Hidroelectrica, for the initial public ...

Parliament amends regulation to penalise lawmakers' aggressive, extremist behaviours
411 字
2023 年 6 月 27 日 12:04 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2023 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, June 27 /Agerpres/ - Acting Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies Alfred Simonis on Tuesday said that the penalties introduced in the regulation of the joint activities of the two legislative chambers are against aggressive and extremist behaviours in the plenary sessions of Parliament.

'There is no satisfaction; we have no pleasure when we have to penalise fellow lawmakers. I think our role here is not to sanction each other. For a long period of time, against the criticism of the media and others, we resisted these types of abuses and failed to take measures that, perhaps, would not have led us here, had we taken them. Dear colleagues, it is not a measure against a lady senator, or against an extremist parliamentary group or less extremist, it's not even against the opposition, it's against hooliganism, shanty town, aggressive and extremist behaviours in the plenary session of Parliament, regardless of whether we're talking about the Chamber or the Senate,' Simonis told a joint sitting of Parliament.

He urged his colleagues who do not behave properly to go to Russia and see how they would be treated.

'I understand that, in the last few days, some parliamentary ladies and gentlemen have slept badly. Prigozhin's incursion into Moscow, close to Putin, scared you and made you rest badly and be nervous at the plenary session of Parliament, because otherwise your nerves are inexplicable. I will make a recommendation, dear ladies and gentlemen who have this type of behaviour: be careful what you wish for Romania, because if you want to see what would really happen in a society that you want, cross the border into Russia and behave as if you were in the plenary session of Parliament to see what you will experience. Those of you who go to the Russian Embassy in Bucharest: enter the embassy building, jolt the ambassador, see if get out of there,' said Simonis.

At a plenary sitting on Tuesday, Parliament amended the regulation of the joint activities of the two legislative Chambers in the sense of tightening the rules regarding discipline, and establishing, among other things, cuts in the perdiems of the lawmakers by up to 50% for a maximum period of six months in case of physical or verbal violence toward a colleague or other dignitary. AGERPRES (RO - author: Livia Popescu, editor: Claudia Stanescu; EN - author: Corneliu-Aurelian Colceriu, editor: Cristina Zaharia)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020230627ej6r001rx


Ukraine This Week - June 30, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 6 月 30 日, 25398 字, (英文)
Zelenskiy proposes authorised digital tax service to streamline procedures and combat tax evasionUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has proposed introducing an authorised digital tax service that would minimise contact between ...

POLITICS
Russia sends a plane to Bucharest to evacuate diplomats who must leave upon the Romanian Foreign Ministry’s request
256 字
2023 年 6 月 30 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2023. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
A Russian plane lands in an exceptional way on Saturday morning in Bucharest. Russian planes are not allowed in EU airspace as a sanction for the war in Ukraine. The authorities in Bucharest, however, made a derogation for the aircraft that could pick up Embassy employees and their families, declared undesirable.

It is a flight that received the approval of the Ministry of National Defense at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Russian plane will land on Saturday, around 10 am, in Bucharest and after two hours will take off back to Russia.

40 employees of the Russian Embassy in Bucharest will board that plane, who will be sent back to Russia, as a result of the request made by the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the Embassy to reduce its number of employees. It is about diplomats, but also about employees, who worked at the Russian Embassy.

It is an exceptional case, because currently Russian planes are not allowed to enter EU airspace. It is a decision taken by the European states immediately after the invasion of Ukraine. So far, Romania has not made such exceptions. It is the first time that the Romanian Army allows a Russian plane to enter the airspace.

The post Russia sends a plane to Bucharest to evacuate diplomats who must leave upon the Romanian Foreign Ministry’s request[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/politics/russia-sends-a-plane-to-bucharest-to-evacuate-diplomats-who-must-leave-upon-the-romanian-foreign-ministrys-request/] appeared first on The Romania Journal[https://www.romaniajournal.ro].

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/38_big.jpg]

Black Zonure SRL

文件 ROMJO00020230630ej6u0005l


Half of Russian Embassy’s personnel leave Romania
Romania Press Review Weekly, 2023 年 7 月 1 日, 158 字, (英文)
The Russian Embassy in Bucharest sent home 40 of its employees, with family members, after Romania urged it to reduce personnel to "reflect the current level of bilateral relations, in the context of the Russian Federation starting the war ...

International Trade
Andrea Kirkby
1370 字
2023 年 7 月 1 日
Credit Management
CRM
32-33
ISSN:02652099
英文
© 2023 Credit Management. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.
Monthly round-up of the latest stories in global trade by Andrea Kirkby.

Romania is expanding

THE Economist recently wrote that Romania needs more people as a result of a collapsed birth rate following the 1989 revolution and the departure of millions who left for opportunities overseas. With an economy that has been growing steadily for a decade, the country faces 'severe labour shortages' - especially in the hospitality and construction sectors which are having to recruit workers from abroad.

Local demand has been helped by the EU's post-pandemic reconstruction funds of which Romania will get €27bn. Along with other EU funds the country could receive more than €80bn by 2027.

With demographic change, the number of non-EU nationals has risen by 110 percent in five years and by 2030, there could be 600,000 foreigners in Romania. In a country of 19m, that is а big and very rapid change.'

For exporters considering Romania this all points to a need to understand which nationals now reside in the country (to cater for their 'home' needs) while targeting an economy that isn't doing too badly.

HEAD FOR INDIA

THE British High Commission in India, Energy Systems Catapult, and the Indian Institute of Science, have launched a new 'challenge call' to help UK firms tackle some of India's key transport decarbonisation challenges.

Through a new bi-lateral initiative, Innovating for Transport Energy Systems (ITES), successful applicants will receive grant funding, real world testing with user feedback, and incubation support, as well as opportunities for relationship building or partner matching with Indian entities. Locations for hardware installation, engagement with local partners, stakeholders and EV users, and local on the ground resources will also be provided where necessary.

Projects involved in the challenge will be individually matched with applicants to ensure the most ideal size of opportunity. All sustainable transport solutions will be considered, but some particular areas of priority have been highlighted on its website - https://bit.ly/3M8U5FU[https://bit.ly/3M8U5FU].

The call will close when 15 SMEs have been accepted.

Argentina's economy close to crisis

A story on Reuters has detailed the mess that Argentina is in. Those in the country will already know that its economy is heading toward a deep crisis. According to 32 economists polled in April, economic activity is set to contract 2.3 percent this year, the worst performance among the Group of 20 countries, with consumer prices expected to rise by more than 100 percent. 27 of the 32 polled are also expecting a recession. It doesn't help that the International Monetary Fund gave Argentina a leg up by easing targets in its $44bn loan deal, a move which subsequently raised fears of a potential devaluation that would send Argentina further into crisis.

As MoneyWeek has commented: 'Inflation is above 100 percent and rising; the Government runs an unsustainable fiscal deficit; farming, the main export sector, is suffering the worst drought on record; and general elections this year are causing political instability."

Interestingly, Argentina is only 15 percent smaller than India and, on its side, would reach from Portugal to Russia. MoneyWeek said that 'with 45m people, if Argentina managed its resources properly its citizens could be as wealthy as Qataris.'

EU PREPARING SANCTIONS

THE European Union is preparing a new round of sanctions against Russia that will target companies and countries that are considered to be helping Russia evade restrictions placed upon it by the bloc in February 2022.

This is a new move for the EU since it requires the application of extraterritoriality, a contested legal principle that allows a governmental body to sanction entities that fall outside its jurisdiction. It's aimed at preventing sanctions from being circumvented while preventing goods that have been banned from being exported to Russia.

The EU is bothered that EU-made goods are going to countries in the South Caucasus and Central Asian regions for re-routing to Russia. China, Iran and Turkey are firmly in the sights of Brussels. Firms fearing EU intervention and subsequent retaliation should be careful who they export to.

Destination Ethiopia?

COULD Ethiopia be the next African business destination? Reuters has noted that Ethiopia is to issue up to five banking licenses to foreign investors in the next five years as part of plans to open up the financial services sector to foreign competition. This follows prime minister Abiy Ahmed's promise to open up sectors previously controlled by state firms to help drive foreign investment inflows and economic growth.

Currently, Ethiopia's banking industry is dominated by state-owned Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, and 29 other players, all of them locally owned.

It's planned that foreign investors would be to enter the industry via joint ventures with domestic players or establishing local subsidiaries.

Reuters says that foreign investors have long eyed sectors including banking, telecoms, transportation and aviation in Ethiopia.' The country has more than 100m people and one of the biggest economies in Sub-Saharan Africa. Two years ago, the Government granted a telecoms licence to a private operator to break the monopoly of state-owned Ethio Telecom in that sector.

BAE SYSTEMS ON TARGET

AN 'elevated global threat environment' has meant that BAE Systems should meet its targets for the year. Its progress has been helped with a contract extension to develop fighter aircraft technology worth £656m.

BAE reckons that it should achieve an increase in sales of up to five percent in 2023, ahead of the £23.3bn it brought in last year.

The company has signed £2bn of orders in its first quarter and was selected by the US Navy to be a supplier on a ten-year contract worth $4.1bn. Also, it was awarded a contract from the Ministry of Defence to work on the Tempest aircraft due to enter service with the Royal Air Force in 2035. The programme is expected to span decades.

GOOD NEWS FOR DEFENCE EXPORTS

THE Government has reported that the UK and Poland have signed a £1.9bn export agreement to install a British air defence system across Poland.

Under it, MBDA will provide Poland with 'cutting-edge, ground-based-air-defence capabilities that will protect the country for generations to come.'

The deal is one of the largest bilateral European air defence deals of its kind in NATO and is the culmination of months of close collaboration between the UK and Poland as the UK equips 22 Polish air defence batteries with UK Common Anti-Air Modular Missiles (CAMMs) and launchers, under a programme called PILICA+.

SMEs abandon international expansion plans

ACCORDING to the SMEEmpowerment Report from currency firm HedgeFlows, SMEs are halting plans to expand. The report is based on a survey which asked industry leaders about their plans for expansion, ambitions for the year ahead, and concerns around the economy.

The report found that resources and training were a barrier to international trade. 68 percent reckoned that their businesses lack the technical infrastructure to operate overseas, and 72 percent said that they were unable to manage foreign payments. Further, 65 percent said that they lacked the financial expertise to open an office overseas.

Owners want their bank to do more to help; 72 percent felt that transfer fees were too high and should be reduced for SMEs.

Of course, reports and surveys can be written to prove almost anything, but if this survey is correct, the Government should be worried.

Colombia moves away from oil

A report in MoneyWeek noted that Colombia wants to wean itself off oil and mining to cut its current account deficit; the Government wants instead to focus on restoring other industries, such as textiles, fertilisers, and pharmaceuticals manufacturing. The country is very interested in foreign investment, but in industry as opposed to oil and coal.

GDP growth reached 7.5 percent last year in Latin America's fourth-largest economy but has since slowed, while annual inflation is running at 13 percent.

There's more, in other words, to Colombia than oil, mining, and dare I say it, illegal drugs.

"Local demand has been helped by the EU's post-pandemic reconstruction funds of which Romania will get euro;27bn."

Institute of Credit Management Ltd.

文件 CRM0000020230728ej710000a


Half of Russian embassy’s personnel expelled from Romania
164 字
2023 年 7 月 3 日 05:26 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The Russian embassy in Bucharest sent home 40 of its employees, with family members, after Romania urged it to reduce personnel to "reflect the current level of bilateral relations, in the context of the Russian Federation starting the war of aggression against Ukraine."

Romania has decided to reduce the staff of the Russian embassy in Bucharest by 51, to a level close to that of the Romanian embassy in Moscow, the foreign ministry announced on June 8.

The 40 staff members left Romania on board a civil aircraft belonging to a Russian airline. The departure was delayed for six hours as the aircraft sent by Russia proved insufficiently large to carry the volume of luggage of the passengers.

Russian aircraft are not allowed in EU airspace as a sanction for the war in Ukraine. However, the Bucharest authorities made a derogation for the aircraft that could take home embassy employees and their families, declared undesirable.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230703ej73000xe


Romania This Week - July 7, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 7 月 7 日, 9213 字, (英文)
Retail sales turn more volatile in Romania but hit a new recordThe retail sales volume in Romania (chart) increased by 3.2% y/y in May when the seasonally-adjusted index reached a new record after the weaker figures in April suggested ...

Spain to deploy troops in Slovakia, Rumania to strengthen NATO flank
Ana Luisa Brown
205 字
2023 年 7 月 12 日
Prensa Latina
PRSLAT
英文
© 2023 ACN. All rights reserved © - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Vilnius, Jul 12 (Prensa Latina) Spain on Wednesday announced it will contribute to the new NATO defense plan by deploying 750 troops in Slovakia and reinforcing 250 troops in Romania. The post Spain to deploy troops in Slovakia, Rumania to strengthen NATO flank first appeared on Prensa Latina.

Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez made the announcement in Lithuania’s capital Vilnius ahead of the two-day NATO leaders’ summit, which kicked off on Tuesday.

Spain will continue its efforts to ‘achieve a just and lasting peace (…) and we will do so in a spirit of commitment and solidarity with NATO´s eastern flank’, he stressed.

The stationing of more NATO troops in countries such as Poland, Romania and Slovakia was condemned at the time by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Spain´s troop deployment raises tension in a region marked by the Ukraine conflict and also at a time as sanction policies against Russia are escalating at high levels.

Precisely, the NATO summit in Lithuania has among its main objectives the enlargement of the alliance’s membership with the inclusion of Sweden after the lifting of the veto by Türkiye.

pll/abo/mem/ehl

ACN Agencia Cubana des Noticias

文件 PRSLAT0020230712ej7c000ma


NATO's Open-Door Rhetoric On Ukraine Is Running Up Against Harsh Realities
5160 字
2023 年 7 月 18 日
Gandhara online
GNDAR
英文
© 2023, Gandhara online, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Nikolas Gvosdev is a professor of national security studies at the U.S. Naval War College who focuses in part on Russia and U.S. foreign policy. In a recent interview with Vazha Tavberidze of RFE/RL's Georgian Service, Gvosdev argues that the recent summit in Vilnius showed NATO's failure to forge a "shared strategic outlook" on Ukraine and that the military alliance is just kicking the can down the road.

RFE/RL: What have we learned in Vilnius at the recently concluded NATO summit?

Nikolas Gvosdev: What we've learned at Vilnius is that NATO is an unwieldy alliance of 31 members. It is difficult to get consensus and what we ended up with was a lowest-common-denominator approach to many of the issues including the contentious question of Ukrainian membership in NATO, and under what conditions Ukraine might be invited to join the alliance.

And it was not only just simply the Central and Eastern European states of Poland, the Baltic republics, that were pushing for an invitation to Ukraine, and the traditional opponents in Germany and France that might have been opposed, but also [there was] this very ambivalent approach of the United States, which I think really caught a number of observers by surprise.

When we think about the Bucharest summit in 2008, the United States was pushing very hard for Membership Action Plans (which spell out steps and conditions for NATO membership) for both Ukraine and Georgia at the time. And in 2023, at Vilnius, the United States was not full-fledged in its support for moving Ukraine immediately toward getting an invitation.

The Tavberidze Interviews

Since the beginning of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Vazha Tavberidze of RFE/RL's Georgian Service has been interviewing diplomats, military experts, and academics who hold a wide spectrum of opinions about the war's course, causes, and effects. To read all of his interviews, click here[https://www.rferl.org/author/vazha-tavberidze/kv-uqp].

And in some ways, it's a worse situation, I might add…by removing the Membership Action Plan requirements, [because] at least Ukraine would have an understanding of what they would have to fulfill. Now we have this very vague formulation that says, well, Ukraine will join when conditions warrant and the allies agree. And that doesn't give us a lot of clarity as to what are the conditions? When will they be met? Who will evaluate whether the conditions have been met? And what does it mean for the allies to agree?

So, in some ways, this summit worsens Ukraine's position in that Ukraine doesn't have a clear invitation, it doesn't have a timeline, but it also doesn't have, at least from the alliance, concrete security guarantees. And now what is going to happen in the aftermath of Vilnius, which is going to be critical, is whether or not individual countries, starting with the United States, are going to extend clearer, firmer guarantees of support to Ukraine, [which] the alliance -- as the alliance -- was unwilling to do in Vilnius.

The point, again, is the alliance does not have a shared strategic outlook on Ukraine beyond the agreement that everyone agrees Ukraine should be supported against the Russian invasion…. And, of course, the other part of the summit, which [concerned] NATO's role in the greater Indo-Pacific region. Should NATO as NATO be involved vis-a-vis China? And, of course, the perennial issue of NATO versus the European Union -- what should the European states be doing in terms of defense? Because the other elephant in the room is the recognition that, sooner or later, the United States' focus is going to be drawn to the Pacific region. And is Europe capable of holding the security situation in the absence of a major American commitment?

RFE/RL: Let's make a quick detour, a very brief detour to Sweden. It's been greenlighted for NATO membership by Turkey at last and I think the most obvious question is: What is Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan getting out of it? Because, if his record is anything to go by, he's not doing this out of kindness of his heart or the lofty ideals of empowering NATO and the proverbial West. So, what's the deal? What did he haggle over?

Gvosdev: I think he's haggling over suspended U.S. military assistance, after his decision to acquire the [Russian] S-400 [missile system]. I think he's looking for an end to efforts in the U.S. Congress to sanction Turkey for a wide variety of its activities, including its economic activities with Russia. I think that Erdogan is saying, "I will move forward on Sweden, I want F-16s (U.S. fighter jets), perhaps a return to the F-35 (U.S.-led fighter jet) program. But I also don't want to see talk about sanctioning Turkey for its business relations with Russia" -- [which] is part of this as well. And again, for all the people saying, "Well, Turkey has now approved Sweden," all that Erdogan is committed to is submitting the documents for ratification [in the Turkish parliament] and that could be a prolonged process. And the interesting test will be who ratifies first. Will he ratify first, or will he want to see if the Biden administration can convince a skeptical U.S. Congress to move on some of these issues vis-a-vis Turkey?

Obviously, [Erdogan's] European Union [membership] bid was more for grandstanding. It's clear that Turkey is not going to necessarily move forward on its EU bid. So, you're right. This isn't about altruism, or about a greater strategic vision. Erdogan has some pretty clear deliverables he's expecting for moving forward on Swedish membership.

RFE/RL: Another quickfire question -- let's talk about the U.S. reluctance. How much of a role does uncertainty ahead of the 2024 presidential election play in all this?

Gvosdev: It plays a great deal. And this has to do with assumptions that the [U.S. President Joe] Biden administration made about the timeline. If you look back eight, nine months ago, the U.S. hope was that by the time Vilnius happened, Ukraine would have had made substantial gains in a counteroffensive; that they would -- if not have retaken Crimea and Donbas -- they would have seriously damaged the Russian position. This was supposed to then allow for a discussion at Vilnius about security guarantees for Ukraine, where the fighting would essentially stalemate on terms that would be favorable to Ukraine.

One of the weaknesses of the U.S. strategic approach is: "We like to work on our timelines, we establish a timeline, and then we expect reality to conform to the timeline that we've established." We saw this in Iraq; we saw this in Afghanistan.

What you now have is a U.S. administration that is faced with an unpleasant dichotomy, which is: If you offer security guarantees to Ukraine, including a pathway to NATO membership, you are doing so at a time when Ukraine has not succeeded in regaining control of most of the lost territory. And so, you're either asking Ukraine to freeze the boundaries, the lines of control, as they exist now. Or Ukraine says we need more time to engage in counteroffensive operations.

But then, of course, the worry in the U.S. is that this is going to draw the United States more directly into the conflict, which the Biden administration does not want on the eve of an election.

The polling data in the U.S. is quite clear: there's strong support for supporting Ukraine; there's not a lot of support for direct U.S. engagement or involvement in the conflict.

And as you move into an election year, you don't want to essentially be saying you are committing the United States to a military or greater military role…. Greater involvement by the U.S. is not something that is a political winner. And I think that the initial hope for Vilnius was that Ukraine was largely back in control of most of its territory by this point, [so] you could then say: "As we did with [U.S. miliary support for] Korea, as we did with Germany, we can bring you into NATO, because you control most of your territory." And that can be done. But it's that dichotomy, [because] Ukraine really isn't ready…to concede permanent loss of Crimea or Donbas. And therefore, the United States isn't going to offer security guarantees, as long as Ukraine itself is not happy with the current disposition of forces where they happen to be aligned.

RFE/RL: The adopted NATO communique says: "We will be in a position to extend an invitation to Ukraine to join the alliance when allies agree and conditions are met." What are these conditions?

Gvosdev: We don't know. We don't know what the conditions are.

RFE/RL: Due to this, I've seen this summit dubbed as Bucharest revisited. Is that a deserved, justifiable moniker?

Gvosdev: Unless in the days following Vilnius, the alliance clarifies what that [statement] means, then it has very much these echoes of Bucharest (at the 2008 NATO summit). Because right now, one could say, "Well, as long as we don't know what the conditions are, they can never be met." There'll never be time for Ukraine.

RFE/RL: Let's delve deeper into the NATO lingo a little bit. Let's discuss some of its more classical tenets that we've been listening to for more than a decade now. Let's start with: "NATO has an open-door policy." Does it really? How come it's open and Ukraine and Georgia are shuffling their feet at the doorstep for so long?

Gvosdev: That's a great point. It's an open-door policy where, in many cases, NATO countries are very, very eager for people not to voluntarily [go through] the door. And so, "Yes, the door is open, but please don't. It would be really wonderful if you didn't actually take us up on it." And I think you've seen that particularly with Ukraine and Georgia over the last 10 years, which is: "Yes, the door is open, but really, we don't want to close the door, but it'd be really wonderful if you don't come through it." And then of course, what we've seen in Georgia is some politicians saying, "Fine, we're not going to. If we're not going to come in, then we're not going to do any of the things that you would like, because we know that we're not going to [go through] the door." And that I think, again, is a disingenuous political statement to try to get around the fact that nobody wanted to say that Russia gets a veto.

RFE/RL: Which is another one I was going to ask you about.

Gvosdev: Russia doesn't get a veto. But we really like it if you didn't actually enter the alliance. And this actually hits on another point from NATO-speak, which is important. And it's not NATO-speak as much as its members, politicians, who then say -- and you saw this at Vilnius -- "Well, Ukraine is virtually a member of NATO." And you've heard that about Georgia.

But there's no virtual membership. There's no such concept. There is membership and there's nonmembership. Now the third option, which would be -- and which we did not see at Vilnius -- is NATO could start to conceive of associations; that the alliance has associations with countries. We have these partnerships and the Partnership for Peace [program]. But I'm talking about associations that would have binding guarantees and commitments. But we saw no move in Vilnius. And I can understand from the Ukrainian perspective the worry is, "Well, this is a way not to get full membership, because you're going to give us this association status."

RFE/RL: On this view, "The door is open, but please don't come in," there have been so many pop culture references popping up on the Ukraine war and one of them has been from Lord of the Rings with Russians portrayed as orcs. And I don't know if you're a fan of J.R.R. Tolkien's work, but this very much sounds like hobbit politeness. When hobbits say good day, they actually mean goodbye.

Gvosdev: I think that's a great analogy. It is a hobbit politeness…because so much of what [NATO] -- particularly the U.S. government -- wants to avoid saying is "No." They don't want to say to Ukraine, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Moldova: "We don't really want to bring you into NATO." They don't want to say, "No." So, they say, "The door is open." But it is this hobbit approach. And it is complicated by the fact that there are people certainly within the U.S. government, in the Congress, that do want to bring these countries in. But there is enough of this reluctance that it creates this impression. Then the problem when you say, "Open door, you're virtually a member of NATO," is we've seen how Russia uses this in its own information warfare to say, "Well, see, Ukraine is virtually a member of NATO, so we had to do the special operation." We saw that from Dmitry Medvedev (former Russian president and now deputy head of the powerful Security Council) and others who said, "Well, NATO already says they're effectively in, so we had to go in."

And so, it doesn't really help the countries to say, "The door is open but don't come in, you're virtually a member." And then for them to be left holding the bag, as Georgia was in 2008, as Ukraine has been in 2014, and again, after 2022, where you get hopes and prayers…[and] in the case of Ukraine, certainly a lot of military equipment and financial assistance, but no guarantee that the alliance is committed to reversing the Russian invasion.

RFE/RL: Should the bottom-line reading on this be that the West is still unsure about a security structure of Europe centered against Russia, and it still might be entertaining hopes to bring Russia back to the fold?

Gvosdev: I think those hopes are diminishing. I think even in Germany, which has been sort of the epicenter of that approach, about [how] Russia needs to be part of any European security structure -- that's diminishing. But I think what it's being replaced by is a hope that, "Well, there'll be a new line and…we can have a settlement with Russia [where] maybe Ukraine doesn't control all of its territory."

"And the decision on cluster munitions, that's the canary in the coal mine. We're sending these cluster munitions because we don't have other things."

We saw right after 2008, Europe, particularly under [former French] President [Nicolas] Sarkozy, was perfectly happy for a settlement that would leave Georgia detached [from] 20 percent of its territory as well. By the way, I don't think that France or Germany would consent to have 20 percent of their territory detached and then just simply say, "Well, that's the price you have to pay."

And so I think, again, some of this open-door rhetoric is running up against an unwillingness to pay some of the costs and we're seeing it [now]. What Vilnius, by the way, has done is again, it kicks these issues down the road. So, the Wales summit in 2014, Madrid last year, to which Vilnius was supposed to build on. And now we're seeing that, well, Vilnius kind of repeats Madrid, and now [on to] the next summit.

RFE/RL: An unending source of tomorrows.

Gvosdev: Yes, the unending sources of tomorrow, and so it's next year's NATO summit (in Washington, D.C.) that will have to be different. But the problem with this for Europeans is that the United States pivoted back to Europe after the Russian invasion. Next time, that may not happen.

RFE/RL: And if you're sitting in the Kremlin, how do you look at it, what's the perspective? Could one argue that these half measures serve as the incentive for Russia to never end the war?

Gvosdev: Precisely right. Because the way that so many Western leaders coming into Vilnius said, "Well, Ukraine is only in when the war is over, then we'll move." Then you've signaled to Moscow that the war never needs to be over and the war can continue. This is why the Korea precedent is so important. Technically, there is still a state of war on the Korean Peninsula. And so it doesn't mean that you have to have active military operations every day. Essentially, you've signaled to Moscow: don't settle, just keep this going. The Russians have shown that they can sustain a level of operations in Ukraine. And, by the way, to continue to wreck Ukraine in a way that makes the bill for reconstruction go up and up. And to make Ukraine even less attractive as a partner two, three, four years down the road.

RFE/RL: I know you're a very staunch believer that this eventual U.S. shift and pivot to the Indo-Pacific region is something that is irreversible and inevitable. Right?

Gvosdev: Yes.

RFE/RL: Let me ask you then a quick question from that perspective. Isn't it in the U.S. interest to leave Moscow in a state that it's of no concern, security-wise, in case there really is a future confrontation with China?

Gvosdev: Well, part of that is the idea [of whether you want] to focus so much on Russia over the next several years [now] that China has made some irreversible, irrevocable gains in the Indo-Pacific region that become a lot harder to dislodge versus a Russia that has been sufficiently weakened, which is still a problem but not an overwhelming threat….

But the question here is that the United States needs to be able to focus time to really rebuild and strengthen relationships that do not just simply dissipate once there's a crisis in Europe. This is the problem. The United States approach in Asia can't be episodic, where there's a problem and we pivot away and then we say, "OK, but we're going to come back."

We're at a critical point where key partners of the U.S. are prepared to really line up with the U.S. in much greater security arrangements. Not like NATO, because NATO is not a template for the Far East, but to really deepen those commitments. But they want to see that the United States is going to be able to see through those commitments. And that has to do also with the defense industrial base: what you can provide, what number of forces are available, where the attention is going to be. And so again, I think the [Biden] administration had this sense that really by Vilnius, the Ukraine question was largely going to be wrapped-up, settled, not necessarily 100 percent.

RFE/RL: Would that have been wishful thinking considering that they did not supply Ukraine, apparently, with enough to achieve that objective?

Gvosdev: Well, because I think over last year, they overweighted the impact of the sanctions on Russia. That they really thought that the Russian economy could not sustain sanctions pressure. It was going to collapse in on itself, which it has not. It doesn't mean that there aren't economic problems in Russia. But the Russian defense industry has been more resilient than I think the West assumed, with its ability to continue to supply the Russians with equipment and, therefore, as you said, not enough supplied [by the West to Ukraine] at the beginning; a pipeline that is slower than expected to get this [done] and Russia's ability to continue to keep the campaign going.

RFE/RL: Your thinking implies that there is no day-to-day thinking in the Pentagon or in Washington, that they think a year ahead and then they go to hibernate and wake up half a year later. Could they not see that this is not working out as intended? Why did we not see any adjustments?

Gvosdev: One of the weaknesses of the U.S. strategic approach is: "We like to work on our timelines, we establish a timeline, and then we expect reality to conform to the timeline that we've established." We saw this in Iraq; we saw this in Afghanistan.

RFE/RL: Don't you check up on the timeline?

Gvosdev: You do check up, but this is confirmation bias. You look for the signs that confirm that your preferred timeline is working, and you ignore the signs that they aren't. How many times over the last year were we told that Russia was out of missiles? It's been like clockwork. Every two weeks, we get a report: "Russia has exhausted its missile supplies, it's done." And maybe Russia is more adaptable…. I think we're now beginning to realize that we overestimated their vulnerability to sanctions. We underestimated their ability to repurpose old military equipment and use it in Ukraine to some degree of effectiveness. And that has implications down the road for how much to [send to] Europe and how much to Asia?

RFE/RL: How did that thinking occur, to realistically think that Ukraine would be liberating territories, including Donetsk and Crimea, by the time of the Vilnius summit?

Gvosdev: It's the outgrowth of Ukraine's successful operations last August. So, the assumption was that when Ukraine regained control of Kherson, when they cleared the Kharkiv area, that this was the template moving forward…. The military has this expression: "The enemy gets a vote." And the Russians, [Sergei] Surovikin (deputy commander of the Russian group of forces fighting in Ukraine) exercised that vote, which was to spend the next six months building very robust defensive lines all across southeastern Ukraine.

There was also a sense that, "Well, the Russian political system is fragile, the military is not going to fight, the sanctions are going to work." All of our best-case scenario options were then assumed to be that: "Well, that's what's going to happen." Because I'm much more of a pessimist, I always assume that the worst case is what's likely to happen. So, I'm not surprised. And now this again, this opens up a very big question moving forward after Vilnius, which is, in the absence of NATO moving on Ukraine, the individual, bilateral security guarantees -- what's going to come from that?

RFE/RL: On the sidelines of the Vilnius NATO summit, interesting things were transpiring. A so-called G7 security pact, heralded by former NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Andriy Yermak, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy's chief of staff. According to Rasmussen, "It includes transfer of NATO standard weapons, enhanced intelligence-sharing, a major expansion of training and exercises with Ukrainian forces, and support to develop Ukraine's military-industrial base." What do you make of this? Could this be the prelude to the much-discussed "Porcupine" scenario, where Ukraine is turned into a fortress packed with modern weaponry?

Gvosdev: Yes, look, the first thing is that doing this under the umbrella of the G7 is quite interesting. The G7 [Group of Seven leading industrialized nations] is traditionally an economic forum. It's odd to have a major security initiative like this come through the G7. It reflects that you could not get it through NATO. And that in and of itself is a telling sign.

The second question is: How much of this is already things that are already being done? Is this going to be something substantially different than previous waves of intelligence-sharing, military equipment provision, training? Is it going to be substantively different? Is it going to be connected to the sense that, "Well, Ukraine will also get guarantees, that as these things are being delivered, they will be protected"?.... You know, it's great to say you're going to provide it, but does that imply any new sets of commitments? How much of this is the G7 also committing to not just the military side but to rehabilitating the Ukrainian economy? Because that's going to be the critical test moving forward.

I understand, look, Ukraine needs all the help it can get. This is probably better than nothing. But the fact that it's being discussed as a G7 initiative after a NATO summit is not, in my opinion, particularly reassuring. The United States has the ability to do certain things bilaterally, including…the president can designate Ukraine as a major non-NATO ally of the United States. [This] still has not occurred. The United States could pass bilateral security guarantees -- it hasn't. The Biden administration really wants to work through some sort of multilateral framework. I think, again, the administration is aware that doing things bilaterally with Ukraine may not be the image that they're looking for. And so then we see this effort, well, this is a G7 effort, not a U.S. one.

RFE/RL: Also, we heard that France is open to discussing this, the U.K. is open to discussing it, the U.S. apparently is open to discussion…. If France, the U.S. and the U.K. are open to doing this, why is it not under the NATO umbrella? Because we are talking about three major states in NATO, right?

Gvosdev: Yes, these are three major states [in] NATO. They are three members of the United Nations Security Council. You would think that then they would have the heft. But the question is: Are these discussions to have discussions, while we give more time for the battlefield situation to resolve itself? The other question, again, is also what is going to be committed to?

Because if I'm a Ukrainian government official, I'm not going to trust statements, unless I know that they're backed up by treaty agreement legislation. Just as a point of comparison, the United States, by law, is obligated to assist Taiwan in the event that China attacks. It's not a matter of, "Well, do I feel like it would be nice?" It's written into U.S. law. NATO obligations to NATO members are a matter of treaty. And so, if I'm a Ukrainian official, as much as I may welcome these discussions, I'm going to want to know what is it that you're prepared to commit?

RFE/RL: Still, on the second part of the question, if this porcupine scenario ever were to occur, what would constitute the quills that the porcupine is defending itself with?

Gvosdev: This is where quantity matters. You need a quantity of equipment -- so air defense missiles, anti-ship missiles, better electronic warfare -- so that you can have a complete electronic fence, so to speak, so that any drone that crosses it is severed from communication by its controller. You want to have complete control [so] that no aircraft or cruise missile can transit your territory without a good chance of it being shot down. You want to -- as the Ukrainians, by the way, have been doing already in the Black Sea -- you want to be able to push naval power as far away from your shores as possible.

That's all part of these quills…and it's a quantity issue. You need to have such a quantity of the quills that you can essentially create this barrier -- an electronic barrier, a military, artillery, missile barrier -- that very few things can get through, and the things that do get through, you have a better chance of deflecting…. And this gets back to your earlier question. We should have seen this when people were saying this as of the summer of last year. We're going to run into the supply issues. You need it, you want to be able to ramp up production. So, Ukraine still has this problem, and it has shortages. It has to essentially ration its artillery pieces that it's using. And the Russians are able to take advantage of the gaps to continue to strike into Ukraine….

It doesn't have to be high-tech; it doesn't have to be the most expensive. It's the idea that, when you look at a porcupine, each individual quill isn't what stops you. It's that they're all together. If I put my hand on one quill, it might hurt, but I'm not going to put my hand on an entire collection of them. There's lots of them. And that's what creates deterrence. And what happens is that NATO needs to be able to construct, both for Ukraine, but along Ukraine's periphery, so Romania, Poland, you want to have coverage over Ukrainian airspace and maritime space, where even from within a NATO country, you have essentially a line of launchers and equipment that can then cover Ukrainian territory.

That's part of the security guarantees that also need to be discussed. And again, we're 500 days into this war. I don't have access to classified material. Maybe it's happening quietly, but I'm just not seeing the industrial base moving along to, you know, we think of where we were in World War II by this point. The United States 500 days after Pearl Harbor, and you looked at what U.S. industry was able to [produce]. And I think because there's this reluctance of saying, "Well, if we've started up and then the war is over, and we've lost all that money and product. So, let's just keep running the stockpiles down." And the decision on cluster munitions, that's the canary in the coal mine. We're sending these cluster munitions because we don't have other things and [U.S. national-security adviser] Jake Sullivan [came out and said] very openly, "Well, this is the bridge, we need to send cluster munitions because we need to give industry time to build up the stockpiles." And it's 500 days. Why wasn't this decision taken at day 100?

This interview has been edited for clarity and length.

Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty

文件 GNDAR00020230719ej7i00002


CE Noticias Financieras English
U.S. extended temporary protected status for Ukrainians already in the country
683 字
2023 年 8 月 18 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The U.S. government on Friday announced a major expansion of the temporary legal status granted to Ukrainians in the United States, giving relief to those who fled the Russian invasion.

The move will make 166,700 Ukrainians eligible for Temporary Protected Status, an increase from the current figure of 26,000, the Department of Homeland Security announced. To qualify, Ukrainians will have to have been in the United States by August 16, two days before the announcement. They will be eligible for work permits.

Originally the protected status was to expire on October 19, 2023, but has now been extended for 18 months until April 19, 2025.

"The ongoing Russian military invasion of Ukraine and the resulting humanitarian crisis require the United States to continue to provide security and protection to Ukrainians who are unable to return home," said Homeland Security Secretary Alexander Mayorkas.

Also on Friday, the Department of Homeland Security extended temporary protected status for Sudanese who entered the country before Aug. 16, saying violent clashes in April have led to instability. It estimated that about 2,750 more Sudanese will be eligible, bringing the total to 3,950. The new expiration date of April 19, 2025, is the 16th extension since temporary protection was first granted to Sudanese in 1997.

"Since the military takeover of the government and recent violent clashes, Sudan has experienced ongoing political instability and conflict that have caused a humanitarian crisis," Mayorkas said.

The extensions come as the U.S. government is granting temporary protection to people from more countries - including Cameroon, Haiti and Venezuela - as part of a strategy that combines more permits to enter the country legally for humanitarian reasons with tougher sanctions for those who enter the country without legal authorization.

A 1990 law allows the Secretary of Homeland Security to give temporary protection in increments of up to 18 months to people already in the U.S. who cannot return to their countries due to conflict or natural disasters.

Ukraine and Romania agree to export grain through Romanian territory

Ukraine and neighboring Romania agreed Friday to work together to allow Kiev to export its grain through Romanian territory after Moscow refused to renew a key deal allowing transit through the Black Sea.

Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and Romanian Prime Minister Marcel Ciolacu signed the agreement during their talks in Bucharest.

The two leaders discussed ways to boost grain exports, which are crucial to the warring nation's economy, by river, rail, road and sea transport, including border crossings. The Ukrainian economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, and its exports of wheat, barley and sunflower oil are crucial to the world.

At a press conference following the meeting, Ciolacu expressed the hope that Romania will be able to transport more than 60% of Ukrainian grain exports.

He also underlined the "ambitious" goal of doubling the transportation of Ukrainian grain through Romania, set a week ago in Galati, a town on the banks of the Danube River. Romania's intention is to raise the quantity from 2 to 4 million tons per month, but Ciolacu did not indicate a timeframe for this.

"I stressed the importance of collaboration between our countries and with our international partners," he added.

Ciolacu said the port of Constanta on the Black Sea will remain a key transport route to bring Ukrainian goods to the international market. The Sulina canal, a branch of the Danube that is an important transport route on Europe's second longest river, will also play a role.

For weeks now, Russia has been carrying out attacks on Ukrainian grain depots and ports on the Danube.

(With information from AP)

They denounced that Putin ordered the arrest of an observer so that he would not supervise the election in which he will seek a new mandate.

The United States authorized Denmark and the Netherlands to deliver U.S. F-16 fighters to Ukraine.

Canada to sanction 15 individuals and three entities for human rights violations in Russia

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230818ej8i00d6n


Romania This Week - August 25, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 8 月 25 日, 6050 字, (英文)
EU proposes €33.9mn financial aid for Romania following 2022 drought damageThe European Commission said on August 23 it is proposing financial support of €33.9mn for Romania following the damage caused by a severe drought in the summer of ...

Opinion
Opinion: Weakness is lethal. Why Putin invaded Ukraine and how the war must end
Nataliya Bugayova, Frederick W. Kagan, Kateryna Stepanenko
6539 字
2023 年 10 月 3 日
The Kyiv Independent
KYIVIME
英文
Copyright © 2023 The Kyiv Independent
Editor’s Note: This is an analysis by Nataliya Bugayova, Kateryna Stepanenko, and Frederick W. Kagan for the Institute for the Study of War (ISW). This analysis was originally published[https://www.understandingwar.org/backgrounder/weakness-lethal-why-putin-invaded-ukraine-and-how-war-must-end?fbclid=IwAR1G3dXxF4eEiV93v4VvWmMB5p6HQrgzsTgdXNRMX_Q88GFqe-3LOGKgmUY] by the ISW on Oct. 1, 2023, and has been republished by the Kyiv Independent with permission.

Russian President Vladimir Putin didn’t invade Ukraine in 2022 because he feared NATO. He invaded because he believed that NATO was weak, that his efforts to regain control of Ukraine by other means had failed, and that installing a pro-Russian government in Kyiv would be safe and easy. His aim was not to defend Russia against some non-existent threat but rather to expand Russia’s power, eradicate Ukraine’s statehood, and destroy NATO, goals he still pursues.

Putin had convinced himself by the end of 2021 that Russia had the opportunity to safely launch a full-scale invasion of Ukraine to accomplish two distinct goals: establish Russian control over Ukraine without facing significant Western resistance and break the unity of NATO. Putin has long sought to achieve these goals, but a series of events in 2019-2020 fueled Putin’s belief that he had both the need and a historic opportunity to establish control over Ukraine. Putin’s conviction resulted from the Kremlin’s failed efforts to force Ukraine to submit to Russia’s demands, Putin’s immersion in an ideological and self-reflective bubble during the COVID-19 pandemic, and Western responses to global events and Russian threats in 2021. Putin had decided that he wanted war to achieve his aims by late 2021, and no diplomatic offering from the West or Kyiv short of surrendering to his maximalist demands would have convinced Putin to abandon the historic opportunity he thought he had.

Putin has long tried to accomplish two distinct objectives: breaking up NATO and seizing full control over Ukraine. Putin’s core objectives from the start of his rule have been preserving his regime, establishing an iron grip on Russia domestically, reestablishing Russia as a great power, and forming a multipolar world order in which Russia has a veto over key global events. Establishing control over Ukraine and eroding U.S. influence have always been essential to these core objectives.

Putin has sought to break NATO and Western unity, but not because the Kremlin felt militarily threatened by NATO. Russia’s military posture during Putin’s reign has demonstrated that Putin has never been primarily concerned with the risk of a NATO attack on Russia. Russian military reforms since 2000 have not prioritized creating large mechanized forces on the Russian borders with NATO to defend against invasion. Russia deployed the principal units designed to protect Russia from NATO to Ukraine, which posed no military threat to Russia, in 2021 and 2022. In 2023 - at the height of Russia’s anti-NATO rhetoric - Russia continued to withdraw forces and military equipment from its actual land borders with NATO to support the war in Ukraine. Putin‘s fear of NATO manifested in his preoccupation with the West’s supposed hybrid warfare efforts to stage “color revolutions,” which Russia claimed the West had done in various former Soviet states including Ukraine.

Putin has always been more concerned about the loss of control over Russia’s perceived sphere of influence than about a NATO threat to Russia. Putin’s actual issue with NATO and the West has been that they offered an alternative path to countries that Putin thought fell in Russia’s sphere of influence or even control. The “color revolutions” that so alarmed Putin were, after all, the manifestations of those countries daring to choose the West, or, rather the way of life, governance and values the West represented, over Moscow. NATO and the West threatened Russia by simply existing, promoting their own values, as Russia promoted its values, and being the preferred partner to many former Soviet states – which, in Putin’s view, undermined Russia’s influence over these states. Putin saw the ability to control former Soviet states as an essential prerequisite to reestablishing Russia as a great power, however. In simple terms, the West – and those in the former Soviet states who preferred to partner with the West even without fully breaking with Russia - stood between Putin and what he believed to be Russia’s rightful role in the world.

How Ukraine is destroying Russian military in Crimea | This Week in Ukraine Ep. 27[https://www.youtube.com/embed/n8fiWEanlKI?feature=oembed]

Putin therefore initiated policies attacking NATO unity and enlargement. Putin has made it a priority throughout his rule to prevent more former Soviet states and even other states, such as the Balkan countries, from joining NATO. The Kremlin has also sought to undermine the relationships between the members of the alliance. Putin accelerated his efforts to undermine Western unity and NATO following the 2014 Euromaidan Revolution that drove out Ukraine’s Russia-friendly president, Viktor Yanukovych, and brought in a pro-Western government. Russia responded by illegally occupying Crimea and parts of eastern Ukraine in 2014.

The Russian occupation of Crimea and Donbas in 2014 was driven by Putin’s perception of a need and an opportunity to expand Russia’s power and establish control over Ukraine. The Kremlin sought to preserve strategic naval basing for the Black Sea Fleet in Crimea – an anchor of Russia’s power projection in the region. The Kremlin was concerned that a pro-Western Ukrainian government would end the lease agreement by which Russia had kept the Black Sea Fleet headquartered in Sevastopol. Crimea continues to provide strategic military benefits to Russia. Ukraine is rightfully focused on depriving Russia of these benefits by making Crimea increasingly untenable for the Russian forces. The occupation of Crimea and the Russian invasion of eastern Ukraine in 2014 were also a stage of a larger effort to bring a significant portion of Ukraine under Russian control, effectively breaking the country up. Putin perceived a strategic opportunity to do so in the spring of 2014, as Ukraine faced a moment of vulnerability during its government transition after the Euromaidan revolution and as the West was focused on dampening rather than resolving any potential conflict in Ukraine. That effort to establish control over Ukraine failed because Ukrainians, in 2014 as in 2022, proved much more opposed to the idea of Russian overlordship than Putin had expected. Putin’s decisions to invade Ukraine in 2014 and 2022 had a core similarity: in both cases, Putin seized what he thought was an opportunity to realize a long-term goal because he perceived Ukraine and the West to be weak.

Putin allowed his partially successful military intervention to be “frozen” by the Minsk II Accords in February 2015 when it became apparent that he could not achieve all of his aims at the time by force. He secured an important diplomatic victory by getting Russia recognized as a mediator rather than as a party to the conflict in Minsk II despite the fact that Russian military forces had seized Crimea, invaded eastern Ukraine, and remained in both areas actively supporting proxy forces that the Kremlin had stood up and fully controlled. He ensured that Minsk II imposed a series of obligations on Kyiv that gave Russia leverage on Ukrainian politics—and no obligations at all on Russia itself. Minsk II was the diplomatic weapon Putin had created to force Ukraine back into Russia’s orbit when his initial invasion had failed to do so.

Putin turned, in the meantime, to disrupting NATO’s coherence. The Kremlin cultivated a partnership with Hungary - a NATO member - to block resolutions related to Ukraine’s NATO membership. The Kremlin launched a deliberate campaign to co-opt Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Putin took advantage of increasingly strained NATO-Turkey relations resulting from conflicting U.S. and Turkish approaches to the Syrian Civil War by engaging Turkey in years-long negotiations to persuade Ankara to purchase Russian S-400 air defense systems – prompting the U.S. to sanction Turkey in 2020. Putin repeatedly used the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline construction project to drive a wedge between the European Union (EU) and the U.S. and appealed to Germany’s economic interests in Europe. Putin sought to benefit from the fact that Germany and France--but not the U.S. or any other NATO states--were parties to the Minsk II accords and then from the “Normandy Format” negotiations to drive wedges between the U.S. on the one hand and Paris and Berlin on the other over the West’s policy toward Russia and Ukraine. Putin fostered divisions among NATO and Western states to ensure that these states would not be united in their response to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine as well as to pursue his larger aim of breaking NATO. His approach had some success in the years leading up to 2022, but not enough to achieve either of his core objectives.

Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during a press conference after the NATO-Russia Council meeting at the end of the NATO summit on April 4, 2008, in Bucharest, Romania. (Artyom Korotayev/Epsilon/Getty Images)[https://assets.kyivindependent.com/content/images/2023/10/GettyImages-80532759.jpg]

The prospect of Ukrainian NATO membership did not drive Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Russia’s fulminations about a NATO expansion in 2022 were efforts to shape the information space ahead of the invasion, not reactions to NATO’s actions. The first NATO commitment to admitting Ukraine to the alliance came in the 2008 Bucharest Declaration, which promised Ukraine and Georgia paths to membership but took no concrete steps toward opening such paths. Successive annual NATO summits generated no further progress toward membership for either country. Putin intensified the narrative that NATO was a threat to Russia over the years, alleging by 2021 that Russia feared NATO’s imminent expansion in Eastern Europe. NATO had taken no meaningful actions to enlarge at the time, however. Accession of new members to the alliance generally requires that they complete a formal Membership Action Plan (MAP) with specific measures agreed upon by the alliance and the prospective member state. NATO produced no MAP for Ukraine or Georgia, meaning that the formal process for their accession had not even begun.

NATO had taken no new formal steps toward Ukrainian membership by the time of the 2022 Russian re-invasion beyond restating the 2008 Bucharest Declaration promising Ukraine a path to NATO membership in a 2021 June communique that followed a massive Russian military buildup on Ukraine’s borders. Ukraine enshrined the commitment to joining NATO in its constitution in 2019, and NATO recognized Ukraine as an Enhanced Opportunity Partner in 2020 facilitating Ukrainian efforts to bring Kyiv’s military closer toward NATO standards. Neither of these events constituted formal steps toward NATO membership. The Enhanced Opportunity Partnership announcement, in fact, explicitly said that Ukraine’s new status “does not prejudge any decisions on NATO membership." The blocks on Ukraine’s accession to the alliance that Putin had helped establish remained firmly in place.

Russia had thus succeeded by 2022 in freezing any move to bring Ukraine into NATO in accord with the 2008 declaration, and there was no plausible argument to make that any further enlargement of the alliance was imminent. Hungary’s relatively pro-Russian position, tensions with Turkey, and NATO’s unwillingness to absorb a new member state with an unresolved military conflict with Russia meant not only had there been no meaningful progress toward Ukrainian NATO membership by 2022 but also that no progress was on the horizon. Putin had effectively blocked Ukrainian accession to the alliance by the time he launched his full-scale invasion—clear evidence that Russian fears of imminent Ukrainian NATO membership did not drive the invasion.

The prospect of Ukrainian NATO membership had most certainly not driven Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2014. Ukraine pursued a non-alignment policy, the NATO Bucharest Declaration notwithstanding, from 2010 through 2014. Ukraine renounced its non-alignment status in December of 2014 as a direct result of Russia invading Ukraine and illegally occupying three of its regions in 2014. This point is essential to keep in mind for those who argue that Putin’s goal is Ukraine’s neutrality.

The primary goal of the Kremlin’s anti-NATO rhetoric has been to justify Putin’s aggressive foreign policies that often had little to do with NATO. The Kremlin’s propaganda about NATO and the West has grown increasingly absurd over the years. Russian propagandists’ narratives about fictional U.S. weapon-producing biolabs on Russia’s borders, NATO’s non-existent plans to establish a military base in Crimea, the supposedly imminent deployment to Ukraine of hypersonic missiles that did not even exist in NATO arsenals, or the “threat” of ‘NATO LGBT instructors’ proselytizing Russian youth are just some examples. The Kremlin used these narratives as a tool to rally Russians against an external adversary to justify the Kremlin’s aggression abroad. The Kremlin has been also using NATO as an excuse to justify its own failures. Russian propagandists have been trying to explain Russia’s repeated battlefield setbacks against Ukrainian forces over the past 19 months by claiming that Russia is fighting the ‘entire NATO’ when no NATO forces are fighting in Ukraine at all.

Why are Ukrainians skeptical of "good Russians?"[https://www.youtube.com/embed/dwijz2nlZ6Y?feature=oembed]

The prospect of a Ukrainian attack on Russians did not drive Russia’s invasion of Ukraine either. The Kremlin did not believe in a real threat from Ukraine – certainly not in February 2022. Putin framed Ukraine as a threat to Russia and claimed that Ukraine was planning to attack Russian-occupied territories and Russia in 2022. In reality, the Kremlin assessed Ukraine’s military capabilities and will to fight to be so weak that Russian forces would overrun the country in a matter of days. The notion that Ukraine posed any meaningful military threat to Russia is incompatible with the contempt shown for Ukrainian military power and will by the actual Russian invasion plan. The Kremlin began setting conditions to recognize the illegal Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics (DNR and LNR) independence from Ukraine in mid-January 2022 to set conditions to justify its war on the basis of a supposed need to "save Donbas." U.S. intelligence pre-bunked a series of planned Russian false flag attacks in occupied Donbas and disinformation campaigns that aimed to create a pretext for the invasion in January and early February of 2022. The false flag operations indicated that the Kremlin did not actually believe that a Ukrainian attack on Russia or on occupied Donbas was imminent. If there had been an imminent Ukrainian attack in preparation, then the Kremlin would not have needed a false flag attack. In reality, Kyiv was not preparing any attacks on Russia or occupied Donbas. These claimed fears for “Russia’s sovereignty” were a set of organized Kremlin information operations that aimed to create conditions for Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. They were never based in reality, and it is unlikely that Putin ever believed in them.

Putin’s NATO and Ukraine narratives in advance of the invasion often contradicted each other – likely by design. Kremlin officials repeatedly claimed that further NATO expansion is a “matter of life and death” for Russia while claiming that Ukrainian military escalation in Donbas supposedly would put Ukrainian statehood into question. These narratives often contradicted each other as the Kremlin propaganda machine would switch from focusing on claims that NATO was the sole aggressor in Ukraine to claiming that Ukraine was planning an imminent attack on occupied Donbas or Russia. The Kremlin propaganda machine also repeatedly claimed that Russia was not planning to invade Ukraine--even ridiculing the idea on the eve of the invasion--and framed its escalations as responses to the Western failures to give Russia adequate ”security guarantees,” simultaneously amplifying Putin’s theses on Russia’s historic right to Ukrainian lands. The narratives likely deliberately contradicted each other to mislead Western and Russian audiences’ understanding of Putin’s demands as well as to appeal to multiple different audiences at the same time.

Putin may have feared NATO enlargement over the long term and may have believed that a US-led coalition was working to foster a “color revolution” in Russia to overthrow him, but those concerns cannot explain his decision to invade Ukraine in 2022. Russian fictional rhetoric notwithstanding, nothing about the NATO threat was more urgent in 2022 than it had been for years, and Putin could offer no plausible reason for thinking that it would become more urgent any time soon. We must look elsewhere for the explanation for the 2022 invasion, and therefore for Putin’s actual war aims.

Putin’s goals in Ukraine have always exceeded responding to some supposed NATO threat or conquering limited additional territory. Putin was not satisfied with illegally annexing Crimea and a portion of Donbas because territorial expansion was never his only goal. Putin sought to establish full control over Ukraine, including its foreign policy and even its internal political arrangements. Putin has been working on establishing control over Ukraine for years. He first tried to control Ukraine through economic influence and by attempting to establish pro-Kremlin political officials in the Ukrainian government, before turning to military means for the first time in 2014 when his previous efforts had backfired.

By 2021, all the ways in which Putin tried to regain control over Ukraine – short of a full-scale invasion – had failed. Putin failed to get Ukraine to join Russia’s Eurasian Economic Union in the 2000s and failed to get pro-Kremlin leaders in charge of the Ukrainian government in 2004. Putin failed to establish full control over Ukraine even when Yanukovych was in power. Putin was able to solidify some of his territorial gains in Ukraine through the Minsk II Accords that froze the front lines in Donbas, but he was unable to exploit those gains to achieve his full desired aims.

Russian President Vladimir Putin (L), Belarusian dictator Alexander Lukashenko (C), Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko (R) during the Summit of the leaders of the EU, Ukraine's, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, on Aug. 26, 2014, in Minsk, Belarus. (Sasha Mordovets/Getty Images)[https://assets.kyivindependent.com/content/images/2023/10/GettyImages-454201602.jpg]

Putin tried to coerce Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko (2014-2019) and later Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky (2019-present) to legitimize the Russia-created illegal DNR and LNR, and Russia’s illegal occupation of Crimea in accord with Ukraine’s Minsk II commitments despite the fact that Russia and the proxies it created had not met their commitments. These efforts, if successful, would have legitimized the principle of Russian military intervention in Ukraine and secured for Russia a permanent lever of influence over Ukraine’s politics. (ISW documented this deliberate Kremlin effort in detail in 2019). Putin failed at that too.

Putin’s convictions about Ukraine and the West had likely further solidified over the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. Putin entered a state of isolation during the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, largely confining his interactions to a small group of trusted idealogues. He reportedly began becoming ever more preoccupied with Russia’s need to control Ukraine and avenge itself against the West for “humiliating” Russia in the 1990s. Sources familiar with Putin’s conversations revealed that Putin began to “obsess over the past” and ”completely lost interest in the present” during the pandemic.

Putin had also just succeeded in a major domestic power play. Putin had faced a moment of vulnerability as the 2020 oil price crisis and the pandemic occurred in the middle of his campaign to retain power. Putin was attempting to amend the Russian constitution so that he could run again in 2024. Putin’s power play went unchallenged, however, and he successfully re-solidified his grip on power with constitutional amendments that effectively allowed him to rule for life. The success of this domestic power play also undermines the argument that Western “hybrid warfare” was somehow putting Putin’s own rule at risk. Putin’s domestic grip in 2021 was solid and faced no meaningful challenge.

Putin was likely emboldened by his false assessments of Ukraine’s capability and will to fight. Ukraine has fended off Russian attacks on its sovereignty over the years and grown in its resolve as a nation – a process that went largely unnoticed by Putin and his inner circle of advisors. Putin had told a European official in September 2014 that he could “take Kyiv in two weeks,” and had evidently maintained the same outlook since invading Ukraine in 2014 despite his military failures that year. Putin misattributed Kyiv’s unwillingness to yield to Russia to a small group of Ukrainian politicians controlled by the West (which the Kremlin usually refers to as ‘the Kyiv regime’) rather than to the growing self-determination of the Ukrainian people to remain a nation--a determination ironically driven in part by the Russian 2014 invasion and continued pressure. Putin’s propaganda in the lead-up to the invasion reveals that he and his ideologues lived in an echo chamber dominated by an alternate reality in which Ukrainians would welcome the Russian forces liberating them from the supposed oppression of the ”Kyiv regime."

Putin did not see NATO or the West as a power that would counter his ambitions in Ukraine either. A former unnamed intelligence official revealed that Putin’s "personal banker” and close friend Yuri Kovalchuk, with whom Putin spent considerable time during his isolation, argued to Putin that the West was weak and that the time was ripe for Russia to demonstrate its military capabilities and ”defend its sovereignty” by invading Ukraine. Former U.S. National Security Council official Fiona Hill stated that Putin’s decision to invade Ukraine was guided by his belief that the West was weak and distracted, and Western analysts argued that some of Putin’s elites supported his vision after concluding that the West was divided and in decline. Putin likely concluded that the West would not have the will or the strength to deter a swift military operation that would collapse the supposedly unpopular Zelensky government within days. This belief in the West’s weakness again undermines the Russian-created fiction that Russia had to act to preempt some Western aggression—a West too weak and divided to defend Ukraine was certainly not going to attack Russia out of the blue.

Putin, thus, likely made a decision to begin setting conditions for the invasion sometime in late 2020 or early 2021. Putin began amassing over 100,000 Russian forces on the Russian-Ukrainian international border and in occupied Crimea in March and April 2021. Russia retained some of these forces and equipment in western Russia to later participate in the full-scale invasion of Ukraine.Russia also began transferring several landing craft and gunships from the Caspian Sea to the Black Sea in early to mid-April 2021. The Kremlin explained away this troop buildup as a response to NATO’s Defender Europe 21 military exercises, while Ukrainian military officials revealed in March 2021 that Russia was amassing forces as part of its preparations for the Zapad-2021 (West-2021) joint strategic exercises in western Russia and Belarus set to take place September 2021. Russian units began deploying to Belarus for the active phase of Zapad-2021 in late July 2021. Zapad-2021 exercises allowed Russian forces to prepare and secure logistics for reportedly 200,000 troops and these logistics would be crucial in Russia’s offensive on Kyiv and northeastern Ukraine from Belarus and western Russia.

How Ukraine is destroying Russian military in Crimea | This Week in Ukraine Ep. 27[https://www.youtube.com/embed/n8fiWEanlKI?feature=oembed]

Western responses to the Russian escalation on the Ukrainian border and the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan likely reinforced Putin’s anticipation of a weak Western response. The West, including the US, signaled its intent to deter Russia via primarily diplomatic means during Russia’s military buildup on the Russian-Ukrainian international border in March and April 2021, taking military intervention off the table. U.S. President Joseph Biden spoke to Putin on April 13, 2021, and offered to meet him at a Geneva-based US-Russia summit on June 16, 2021. The call notably occurred on the same day the White House announced that Biden had decided to draw down the remaining U.S. troops from Afghanistan and a day before Biden’s announcement that the U.S. would complete the withdrawal by September 1, 2021. The Biden-Putin summit in Geneva did not achieve any diplomatic breakthroughs, of course. Washington's purely diplomatic approach to deterring a Russian threat against Ukraine and withdrawal from Afghanistan likely strengthened Putin’s convictions that the West would not resist his invasion by force.

Putin issued two ultimatums to Ukraine, the West, and NATO in 2021 in support of these objectives.

Putin first delivered an ultimatum to Kyiv in mid-July 2021. The ultimatum made explicit that there is no room for an independent Ukraine in Putin’s worldview. Putin published an essay on the “Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians” on July 12, 2021, in which he noted that Ukrainians, alongside Belarusians, have always belonged to the Russian nation. The essay, which reportedly became required reading for the Russian military, openly questioned Ukrainian territorial integrity and claimed that modern Ukraine was a ”product of the Soviet era” shaped ”on the lands of historical Russia.” Putin reiterated theses that later became the focal points of his declaration of war against Ukraine in February 2022 - namely that Russia had been “robbed” of its “historic” lands, that Ukraine ”does not need Donbas,” and that ”millions of Ukrainians” are refusing the Kyiv-imposed “anti-Russia project.” Putin concluded the essay by stating “I am confident that the true sovereignty of Ukraine is possible only in partnership with Russia... For we are one people.” The essay did not formally declare war against Ukraine, of course, but a Kremlin-affiliated outlet described the essay as Putin’s “final ultimatum to Ukraine."

Putin’s ultimatum implied that Ukraine’s existence and territorial integrity depended on its decision to align itself with Russia - a policy course that the Ukrainian people repeatedly and explicitly rejected. It was not a call for Ukrainian neutrality, but rather for Ukraine’s absorption into the Russian orbit if not into Russia itself. Putin also notably released this ultimatum after the U.S. accelerated the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan on July 8, although he had obviously formulated it long before that.

Putin then issued an ultimatum to the U.S. and NATO in December 2021 that aimed to force the West into surrendering Ukraine’s sovereignty on its behalf and abandoning partnerships on NATO’s eastern flank. Putin’s November 30 “red lines” speech and the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ (MFA) December 17 ultimatum documents demanded "security guarantees” from the U.S. and NATO that amounted to the destruction of the current NATO alliance. The ultimatum demanded that NATO reverse its ”open door” policy, rule out eastward enlargement, and halt the deployment of forces or weapon systems to member-states that joined NATO after 1997 - among other things. Putin explicitly demanded that Russia have an effective veto power over sovereign states’ ability to freely seek membership in NATO and over how the alliance operated militarily and politically. These demands would have required NATO to rewrite the North Atlantic Treaty that is its founding document and forced every NATO state to re-ratify a new agreement, a process that would almost certainly have broken the alliance. Putin’s ultimatum to the West also attempted to coerce the West into sacrificing Ukraine’s sovereignty.

Putin’s 2021 ultimatum to NATO and the West was an actual ultimatum, not the basis for a negotiation. Putin and his diplomats signaled that they were not interested in accepting any concessions short of forcing NATO to abandon its own principles and changing the framework of the world order. The “security guarantees” ultimatum was the Kremlin’s signal that it would no longer consider any compromises. The objective of the ultimatum was to weaken the alliance via internal friction, portray it as both weak and the aggressor, and legitimize the idea that Ukraine is part of Russia’s rightful sphere of control. The ultimatum also focused on preoccupying the West with the need to find a diplomatic solution – a solution that was no longer there and had not been for a while.

Russian President Vladimir Putin meets Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Moscow, Russia, on Feb. 14, 2022. (KREMLIN PRESS OFFICE/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images)[https://assets.kyivindependent.com/content/images/2023/10/GettyImages-1238481760.jpg]

The behavior of the Russian Foreign Ministry (MFA) from October 2021 to January 2022 demonstrated Putin’s increasingly inflexible intent, as the Kremlin began to restrict Russian diplomats from pursuing meaningful negotiations in the lead-up to the invasion. The Russian MFA has never been independent of the Kremlin, of course – no foreign ministry is independent of its sovereign. But an August 2023 BBC investigation revealed that Russian top diplomats had lost the flexibility that makes meaningful diplomacy possible and begun acting like “robots,” reading scripted statements to Western officials as early as mid-October 2021 in contrast with their previous more normal engagement with their Western counterparts.

Former adviser to the Russian mission at the United Nations in Geneva, Boris Bondarev, recalled that Putin’s ultimatum shocked many Russian diplomats and claimed that he immediately knew that the Kremlin’s "security guarantees” demands were ridiculous. Bondarev claimed that the Kremlin issued this ultimatum in a way that gave Russian diplomats no choice but to adopt a new inflexible protocol. Bondarev also recalled that Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov screamed at U.S. officials, including First Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, stating that ”(Russia) needs Ukraine” and that Russia will not ”go anywhere without Ukraine” during a dinner amidst the bilateral US-Russian strategic stability talks in Geneva on January 10, 2022. Bondarev added that Rybakov vulgarly demanded that the U.S. delegation ”get out with (their) belongings (to the 1997 borders)” as U.S. officials called for negotiations.

The U.S. and NATO, however, remained committed to the hope that diplomacy would change Putin’s determination at this stage. The US, for example, responded to the Russian ultimatum by reaffirming its commitment to Ukraine and to NATO’s open door policy and offered to discuss the possibility of negotiations to address Russia’s issues with NATO predictability and transparency in Europe. The U.S. even offered to discuss a transparency mechanism that would confirm the absence of Tomahawk cruise missiles at Aegis Ashore sites in Romania and Poland – if Russia offered reciprocal transparency measures on two ground-launched missile bases of America’s choosing in Russia. Director of the Carnegie Berlin Center Alexander Gabuev recalled that Russian diplomats, with whom he had contact, were ”pleasantly” surprised with U.S. proposals and thought that they could achieve agreements that would ”really strengthen (Russian) security.” The Kremlin, however, was not interested. Putin was not, in fact, trying to counter a claimed NATO threat but rather was setting conditions for the full-scale invasion of Ukraine.

The ultimatums were likely a perfect hedge from Putin’s perspective. NATO would have had to transform itself—including by rewriting its charter and basic rules—to meet the Russian demands, and Ukraine would have had to amend its constitution and abandon core principles of its sovereignty. Putin would no doubt have accepted such a full surrender with delight, but it was never on the cards, as he certainly knew. When the West predictably rejected his demands, Putin had established the superficial justification for launching a full-scale invasion with two goals in mind: conquering Ukraine and breaking NATO. Forcing the West to reject these ultimatums also provided the Kremlin with additional justification to blame the West for the war, as the Kremlin continues to do.

By 2022, no diplomatic offering from the West short of surrendering Ukraine’s sovereignty and abandoning NATO principles would likely have stopped Putin from invading Ukraine. Only the threat that the U.S. or NATO would intervene militarily might have deterred Putin, but the U.S. explicitly took such a threat off the table.

Putin’s objectives have remained unchanged despite the failure of his initial full-scale invasion in 2022 and despite Russian losses and setbacks since then. Even recent statements by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, presented by some as the potential basis for a settlement of the war, are actually just restatements of Russia’s ongoing demands. These demands include the removal of the Zelensky government and its replacement by a Russia-amenable regime, the “neutralization” of Ukraine which means both the permanent renunciation of possible NATO membership and the weakening of Ukraine’s military, abandonment of Ukrainian identity by Ukrainians, and the recognition of Russia’s de facto control over Ukrainian international and domestic policies and over Ukraine’s way of life – the type of control that the Kremlin has established on all Ukrainian territories Russia occupies. Russian officials and media have constantly repeated these demands, and Putin has offered no indication of any willingness to compromise on them.

BULLET HOLES | An investigation into Russia’s systemic killings of Ukrainian children[https://www.youtube.com/embed/E-coT5t70Tg?feature=oembed]

Western discussions of the need to find a diplomatic resolution to the conflict on the assumption that it is stalemated are thus deeply misguided. ISW assesses that the conflict is not stalemated, for one thing. More important for this discussion, however, is the fact that Putin began this war with maximalist aims vis-a-vis Ukraine and NATO. He has not changed those aims, nor has he indicated any willingness to accept a lesser outcome because of any supposed stalemate. Even if he did show a willingness to negotiate some cease-fire along current lines, however, Ukraine and the West would be foolish to accept it. Putin invaded Ukraine in 2014 with aims far beyond what his means could achieve. He settled for freezing the conflict on terms advantageous to him not because he had moderated his aims, but so that he could pursue them in other ways. When it became clear that he could not achieve his aims through the manipulation of the Minsk II or Normandy Format frameworks and as he came to believe that both the Ukrainian government and the West were weak, he restarted his invasion on a massive scale. This invasion has failed to secure Putin’s aims as the 2014 invasion had. Why should the West and Ukraine expect any new ceasefire agreement or negotiation to “resolve” the conflict that Putin has created and has been stoking for a decade?

Past is prologue. A ceasefire or negotiation format freezing the conflict along the current lines, which are far more advantageous to Russia than the pre-2022 lines were, will be in Putin’s eyes nothing more than a kind of Minsk III—a new mechanism by which to continue to pursue the same aims. Such a “peace” will be no peace at all. It will simply be an opportunity for Russia to rebuild its military and economic power, allow the West’s attention to be distracted, and seek to regenerate and benefit from cracks within Ukrainian society until it can resume its attacks.

The idea of providing Putin with an “off-ramp” and a “face-saving” opportunity completely fails to learn the lessons of the past nine years. Putin created for himself a diplomatic “off-ramp” in 2015 not because diplomacy convinced Putin to abandon his pursuit of Ukraine, but rather because he realized that freezing the front lines was his best option for continuing to pursue control over Ukraine. In 2014, the Kremlin overestimated support for Russia in Ukraine, underestimated Ukrainian resistance, and overestimated Russia’s ability to create a proxy force capable of achieving military objectives without a large-scale Russian deployment. As a result, Russia was able to secure only portions of Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, instead of the originally planned six regions of Ukraine beyond Crimea. Russia would likely have secured even less had it not deployed the Russian military to prevent Ukrainian forces from liberating more territory.

Putin stopped in 2015 because he recognized that his military efforts had failed to reestablish full control over Ukraine, that he had reached the limits of Russian power and his own risk tolerance, and that continuing the active conflict would have required the gamble of launching an unprepared and under-resourced full-scale invasion of Ukraine at the time. Putin chose instead to accept a temporary setback to advance his larger objective. The West’s last ‘off-ramp’ for Putin did not secure peace. It led to the Kremlin’s eight-year-long campaign attempting to convert Russia’s limited military presence in Ukraine into political control over the country, and when that campaign failed, Putin resorted to full-scale invasion.

An enduring end to the current Russian war on Ukraine requires forcing Putin to accept defeat. He—and his successors—must be made to realize that they cannot impose their will on Ukraine and the West militarily, cannot suborn Ukraine politically, and cannot prevail diplomatically. As long as the Kremlin cherishes the hope of success—which any face-saving compromise settlement would fuel—it will continue to seek to overcome its setbacks in ways that make renewed war very likely.

Ukraine and the West should seek a permanent end to this conflict, not a temporary respite. Renewed war will likely be larger in scale and even more dangerous to Ukraine and the West. It will be extremely costly as well since a renewed war once Moscow has rearmed and prepared will likely be far costlier and more dangerous. Demands to reduce the financial burden of supporting Ukraine now simply store up greater risk and expense for the future.

There is no path to real peace other than helping Ukraine inflict an unequivocal military defeat on Russia and then helping to rebuild Ukraine into a military and society so strong and resilient that no future Russian leader sees an opportunity like the ones Putin misperceived in 2014 and 2022. This path is achievable if the West commits to supporting Ukraine in the prolonged effort likely needed to walk down it. If the West is instead lured by the illusion of some compromise, it may end the pain for now, but only at the cost of much greater pain later. Putin has shown that he views compromise as surrender, and surrender emboldens him to reattack. This war can only end not when Putin feels that he can save face, but rather when he knows that he cannot win.

Editor's Note: The opinions expressed in the op-ed section are those of the authors and do not purport to reflect the views of the Kyiv Independent.

-kg-card-begin: html-->

Submit an Opinion [https://kyivindependent.com/writing-op-ed-for-kyiv-independent]

-kg-card-end: html-->

Russian President Vladimir Putin chairs a meeting with Russian state officials via video in Moscow, Russia, on Sept. 27, 2023. (MIKHAIL METZEL/POOL/AFP via Getty Images)[https://assets.kyivindependent.com/content/images/2023/10/GettyImages-1692789140.jpg]

Kyiv Independent Media Ltd

文件 KYIVIME020231003eja3000gv


FINANCIAL
All eyes on fiscal in the Eurozone
2949 字
2023 年 10 月 6 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2023. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
The Eurozone is heading into a challenging 2024 with both fiscal and monetary policy turning restrictive as real rates turn more limiting and governments tighten their belts. While analysts expect to the ECB to start cutting rates in mid-2024, the real policy rate, approximated as the policy rate minus inflation, will rise amid ongoing disinflation. Thus, Allianz Trade analysts expect the final real rate to be reached in 2024 as disinflation continues. Therefore, monetary policy will have an extremely restrictive impact going forward. At the same time, after the fiscal stimulus granted in response to the Covid-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine, the countries of the euro area are now moving towards fiscal consolidation by adopting restrictive budget measures. Analysts forecast a fall in the euro area fiscal stimulus of -0.8% in 2024, slightly more than the -0.5% decline in 2023.

Fiscal consolidation takes time and the risks of slippage should not be underestimated. Thus, the governments of the big four countries in the euro area (Germany, France, Spain and Italy) have already drawn different measures regarding fiscal consolidation.

Germany is pursuing fiscal consolidation by implementing a strict fiscal course in the coming years. In addition, due to current cyclical and structural trends, demand for fiscal stimulus is high and the government has announced an economic package worth €32bn of corporate tax cuts – spread over four years and likely to be financed through cuts budget, rather than by increasing spending. In order to comply with the debt limit anchored in the basic law (“Grundgesetz”), net borrowing is only possible to a very limited extent. At the same time, the budget deficit is expected to drop from 2.6% of GDP in 2022 to around 2.25% in 2023, 1.25% in 2024 and even 1% in 2025, mainly due to a reduction in spending on pandemic and energy-crisis support.

Meanwhile, France is kickstarting a modest fiscal consolidation amid a challenging macroeconomic backdrop. The Ministry of Finance is floating around EUR16bn of savings (around 0.6% of GDP) to target a fiscal deficit of -4.4% of GDP after -4.9% in 2023. France forecasts real GDP growth to +1.4% in 2024, -0.2 pp downgrade compared to the previous period. However, the government’s real GDP growth still looks optimistic relative to Allianz Trade analysts’ forecasts (+0.7%). Most of the savings the government will rely on will come from the phasing out of the tariff shield and other energy subsidies, which should result in around €10 billion less spending than in 2023. In terms of revenue, the government plans to increase or create new taxes to finance the green transition, such as a tax on flights departing from France. Housing policy is also expected to be tightened: for example, the ‘Pinel’ tax credit (subsidy for investment in new rental housing) may be removed, while the scope of the ‘zero rate’ home loan subsidy of interest” could be reduced.

In Italy, tax credit expenses have added clouds to the fiscal outlook. The generous tax credit scheme generated higher spending than originally expected, also producing downward revisions to fiscal deficits in 2021-2022. In light of the likely reintroduction of the Stability and Growth Pact in 2024, the government will have to cover unplanned costs as well as honor election commitments (tax cuts). The latest official estimates published in June predict a public deficit of 4.5% in 2023 and 3.7% next year (compared to Allianz Trade analysts’ forecast of -5% and -3.8% respectively).

Spain has a good fiscal consolidation plan, but its effectiveness remains questionable. Regardless of the outcome of the general election in July 2023, the need to address public finances will be inevitable, limiting any attempt to pursue an expansionary fiscal policy. The stability program for 2023-2026 presented by the government proposes a gradual reduction of the budget deficit, driven by the recovery of the Spanish economy from 4.8% of GDP in 2022 to 3.9% in 2023 and 2.5% in 2026. The IMF estimates that this reform could add 3.2-3.5% to pension spending by 2050, on top of the 1pp increase caused by the aging population. Allianz Trade analysts expect the budget deficit to average 4% of GDP in 2023-2026 and gross debt to improve from 112% of GDP in 2022 to 108% of GDP in 2026.

Romania showed resilience, thanks to the increase in the minimum wage and pensions, while investments remained in the light thanks to the flows of EU funds from the Next Generation EU Fund. In contrast, in Poland and Hungary, tensions with the European Union will prevent payments of EU funds in the short term, limiting sources of investment. Analysts forecast GDP growth in Central and Eastern Europe (excluding Turkey and CIS+) of +0.7% in 2023, +2.8% in 2024 and +3.2% in 2025. For Romania, Allianz analysts Trade forecasts GDP growth of +2.8% in 2023, +3.2% in 2024 and +3.6% in 2025. Public finances are still strained due to the measures adopted to deal with the pandemic, while that financing costs have increased. However, in EU Member States, absorption of NGEU funds will provide fiscal support. With the exception of Romania, current account imbalances from 2022, caused by high energy prices, are on track to be restored. Overall, the risk of a balance of payments crisis remains significant in Romania. However, the risk of an energy crisis in the winter of 2023/2024 has decreased significantly, thanks to reduced dependence on Russian gas and the EU’s large natural gas stocks.

Although it remains slightly more stable in Romania, core inflation is on a downward trend, mostly converging towards core figures. However, core inflation is expected to remain above central bank targets until the end of 2024, weighing on consumer spending and investment. On average, inflation should reach 12% in Central and Eastern Europe in 2023 and decline to 6.2% in 2024 and 3.9% in 2025, respectively, remaining above pre-pandemic levels.

By the beginning of the year, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania are expected to gradually reduce monetary policy rates and interest rates to stabilize at 3-4% over the medium term, well above pre-pandemic levels and still below inflation rates, which means that CEE countries will continue to have negative real interest rates for some time. Regarding the nominal increase in wages, they registered an upward trend in Hungary and Romania in 2023, while in Poland and the Czech Republic, the trend was a downward one. In Romania, the salary increase was approximately +14% in the middle of 2023, and for 2024 it is estimated at a 10% increase. This year, Hungary saw wage growth of +16%, while Poland and the Czech Republic saw increases of 11% and 7.7% respectively.

“In Romania, fiscal consolidation measures seem more drastic than in the European Union countries mentioned above. We are still in the excessive fiscal deficit procedure, (and for the end of the year it will most likely remain in the area of 6%), and the interest rates at which we borrow from external institutions to cover the deficit are above the average of the countries in the Union. Although the latest measures to eliminate some tax breaks and introduce turnover taxation for larger companies with low profitability should bring a narrowing of the tax gap, the effect will be short-lived. Eliminating tax evasion as a viable response from the start, the adaptation of companies to the new restrictive conditions would take place on several levels. If in the case of the elimination of some tax facilities, the obvious effect would be to increase prices on the distribution chain, in the case of taxing the turnover, the effects will be more extensive.”, points out Mihai Chipirliu, CFA – Risk Director, Allianz Trade.

In addition to the optimization of group structures (mergers/absorptions) for the elimination of intra-company transactions and, consequently, the sublimation of potential taxable turnovers, analysts estimate that we will witness a period with measures to make internal flows profitable. The elimination or restructuring of positions with lower added value, the closure of work units that were operating in the zero profit area or with positive marginal profit are just a few measures that the companies targeted by the new taxes could adopt. Also, certain products or services marketed in large volumes, but with very small profit margins (including those with a State-regulated price) – although essential for consumers – could become unavailable or marketed in a reduced volume. Last but not least, the taxation of banks’ turnover would induce an increase in the cost of loans, given that the interest expense has already become a disruptive factor in pre-tax profit since the second part of last year. The effect of postponing or canceling some investments will also be important – rare being the cases where an investment brings a substantial profit from the first year – but also fueling the unpredictability in terms of fiscal policy at a time when emerging countries are perceived as a risk country raised.

European sanctions against Russia

Despite efforts to enforce sanctions, EU goods under export ban still seem to find their way to Russia via third countries. Even though the EU issued comprehensive sanctions against Russia following its military invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, the Russian economy has not contracted as much as forecasts in 2022 predicted. One reason might be that the West has shielded energy from sanctions out of fear that a full embargo would cause oil prices to spike and drive the global economy into a recession. Another reason is that sanctioned goods continue to find their way into Russia. Looking at aggregate exports from the EU to Russia, we find a drop of -52% comparing H1 2019 to H1 2023. But trade data indicate that EU-sanctioned goods might be exported to a considerable extent from the EU to third countries and from there to Russia. These are mostly countries that have not sanctioned Russia, such as Turkey, or are historically, politically and economically close, such as countries in Central Asia. Particularly for those that form the Eurasian Customs Union together with Russia, there are minimal checks once goods enter one of the member states.

EU exports to Turkey, for example, increased on average by +58.1% between H1 2019 and H1 2023. The numbers are even more striking for Central Asian economies: EU export values to Kazakhstan are up +100%, to Kyrgyzstan by a striking +800%, to Tajikistan by +151%, to Turkmenistan by +78.5% and to Uzbekistan by +66.6% comparing H1 2019 and H1 2023. This alone is not yet evidence, but Turkey and the Central Asian economies also trade more with Russia. Turkish exports to Russia stood at USD0.4bn in 2019 and increased to USD0.9bn in 2022. Similarly, in Central Asia, exports to Russia increased by +53.8% from USD0.8bn in 2019 to USD1.2bn in 2022. The notable shifts in trade patterns do not necessarily prove sanction evasion but could also be genuine trade diversion. Looking at patterns in trade exposure between Russia and individual countries gives an indication of the circumvention of shipments. Most western countries – with the exception of Croatia, Latvia, Slovenia and Cyprus – have sharply cut their direct exports to Russia, while others such as China, India or Turkey have increased it. But exports to Russia via Central Asia or Turkey have gone up everywhere – except for Cyprus.

European sanctions against Russia

Despite efforts to enforce sanctions, EU goods under export ban still seem to find their way to Russia via third countries. Even though the EU issued comprehensive sanctions against Russia following its military invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, the Russian economy has not contracted as much as forecasts in 2022 predicted. One reason might be that the West has shielded energy from sanctions out of fear that a full embargo would cause oil prices to spike and drive the global economy into a recession. Another reason is that sanctioned goods continue to find their way into Russia. Looking at aggregate exports from the EU to Russia, we find a drop of -52% comparing H1 2019 to H1 2023. But trade data indicate that EU-sanctioned goods might be exported to a considerable extent from the EU to third countries and from there to Russia. These are mostly countries that have not sanctioned Russia, such as Turkey, or are historically, politically and economically close, such as countries in Central Asia. Particularly for those that form the Eurasian Customs Union together with Russia, there are minimal checks once goods enter one of the member states.

Real estate boom and bust in Italy

In Italy, the construction sector saw an impressive recovery in 2021-2022, thanks to the tax credit scheme for house renovation. Thus, construction investments increased by +27.7% and +11.5% in real terms in 2021 and 2022, respectively. Given the much more limited growth in new construction, which decreased in 2022, building permits for new homes registered an increase of only +0.1%. Thus, Allianz Trade analysts predict that 40% of the growth in 2021 and 2022 was due to incentives for renovations and energy efficiency. The increase in construction investment coincided with construction sector costs escalating by +6% in 2021 and around +12% in 2022, which further increased the cost of tax credits.

Paradoxically, the gradual roll-out of the tax scheme (already revised in February 2023) is expected to gradually align future budgets. Thus, a decrease in the dynamics of the construction sector is expected. Monthly data confirms that activity has started to slow, suggesting a reversal of the visible improvements seen in 2021 and 2022. Industrial production fell by -2.6% per month on average in the first quarter of this year (compared to an average increase of + 12.8% in 2022), while construction employment intentions have recently deteriorated. In addition, the latest data on business insolvency for the sector corroborates the halting of the downward trend initiated in 2021.

The easing of fiscal measures, together with the rapid impact of monetary policy tightening on credit supply and demand, has created a dangerous mix for Italy’s housing market. However, the tax credit had minimal impact on prices. Demand for credit fell at a faster pace than in 2012, while mortgage rates reached a record high (Figure 6). While the introduction of the tax credit was expected to increase the prices of existing homes, the effect was imperceptible compared to the problems facing the sector. The price of houses already built has increased less than the CPI or construction costs, leading to lower real prices. Although Italy is emerging from a long housing market crisis, analysts expect new home prices to fall by 3-5% by the end of 2024.

Wage indexation in Belgium

Belgium is one of the few countries in the Eurozone that has an automatic wage indexation system for most incomes. Private and public sector wages, pensions and all social benefits are periodically adjusted to the cost of living as measured by the Health Index. When energy prices rose in 2022, Belgium saw a greater shift from wholesale to retail markets due to lower taxation of energy products compared to similar markets in the euro area. As a result, CPI peaked at 12.3% in October 2022. However, the normalization of energy prices helped CPI fall to 4.1% in August 2023, while underlying pressures remain strong but saw a the third consecutive decrease (to 7.7%). This allowed the government to postpone some indexation tranches.

Belgian firms and the government bear the costs of indexed wages. In 2021-2022, the government made deals with part of the private sector (one-off tax-free bonus between €500 and €750 instead of automatic increases) to keep companies competitive in the face of rising wages. However, corporate profits fell in the third quarter of 2022. However, the labor market remains strong and shows the first signs of recovery. The number of employees, as well as that of the unemployed, decreased, the unemployment rate reaching a rather high 5.5%. Thus, Belgium’s vacancy rate is still the second highest in Europe, although it fell slightly from 4.68% to 4.63% in the second quarter of this year. In addition, according to the European Commission’s latest survey, employment intentions are falling while savings rates are rising, providing support for a slowdown in wage growth. However, if energy prices reverse significantly, more persistent than expected inflation could reinforce concerns about unsustainable wage setting.

Signs of optimism appeared in 2023 and were generally more modest than the growth of 2004-2006. 2022 has brought challenges to financial markets, leaving few safe tax havens. But the strength of the USD contributed to the further underperformance of emerging market fixed income instruments. The growth cycle coincided with a war with global repercussions that fueled the road to safety. In addition, serious doubts have arisen about China’s economic and geopolitical trajectory. Many emerging markets face limited access to financial markets. This is a sign that market participants are not ignoring the risks inherent in the current situation, but benchmark USD spreads are expected to widen by 30-40bp by the end of the year.

The post All eyes on fiscal in the Eurozone[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/business/financial/all-eyes-on-fiscal-in-the-eurozone/] appeared first on The Romania Journal[https://www.romaniajournal.ro].

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/eurozone1.jpg]

Black Zonure SRL

文件 ROMJO00020231006eja600005


Romania This Week - October 27, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 10 月 27 日, 10052 字, (英文)
Romania’s public deficit hits 3.55% of GDP in January-SeptemberRomania’s general government budget increased by 35% y/y in nominal terms, to RON56.5bn in January-September, the Ministry of Finance announced.

Ukraine This Week - October 27, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 10 月 27 日, 19930 字, (英文)
Ukraine’s Dragon Capital halves 2024 GDP growth forecast to 4%Ukrainian investment company Dragon Capital has revised its economic forecast for Ukraine, halving the country's GDP growth forecast for 2024 to 4% year-on-year.

Hungary This Week - November 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 3 日, 4238 字, (英文)
Hungary labour market remains close to full employment in SeptemberHungary’s labour market remained close to full-employment, despite the recession and the fallout of the energy crisis. The jobless rate stood at 3.9% in September, edging ...

EU struggles to deliver on military aid promised to Ukraine (enr)
1406 字
2023 年 11 月 17 日 09:50 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2023 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Brussels, Nov 17 /Agerpres/ - Plans to increase EU spending to help Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression have stalled because of reluctance at EU level to commit to more funds. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell remains optimistic, saying it is up to member states to mobilise their industries if the EU is to keep its promise to deliver a million rounds of ammunition to Ukraine by next spring.

The European Union may fail to meet its objective of delivering one million artillery shells and missiles to Ukraine in the period of one year, which ends in March 2024. This comes despite efforts to increase production capacity and contracts with the arms industry. At a meeting of the bloc's defence ministers on Tuesday, European officials took stock of the military support they have given and pledged to Ukraine to defend itself from the Russian invasion.

'The 1-million target will not be reached, we have to assume that,' said German Defence minister Boris Pistorius. The voices that had warned from the outset that the goal was unrealistic were now unfortunately right, he said.

The Union's struggles to make good on promised deliveries come as opposition in the United States Congress has thrown doubt on Washington's ability to sustain supplies. The pessimistic assessment also occurs at a bleak time for Ukraine after its counter-offensive failed to regain territory and as Israel's war with Hamas appears to have diverted attention of its key allies.

EU states had previously decided to provide Ukraine with a million howitzer rounds desperately needed to support the country in its defence against Russia. So far, EU nations have only managed to provide 300,000 rounds from their existing stocks.

Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Western countries have delivered a wide range of weapons to Kyiv, depending on the developments on the battlefield. Brussels says that together with EU member states it has organised military support worth 27 billion Euro to Ukraine since the beginning of the war - but a plan to provide guaranteed long-term support for Kyiv has stumbled.

New aid at EU level appears controversial

While most of the bloc's member states say they are ready to support Ukraine for the long haul, some countries, like Hungary and Slovakia, have been reluctant to make new financing commitments for Kyiv, thereby stalling the discussions over the EU initiative.

In July, EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell proposed a new 20 billion Euro defence fund over the next four years to help cover arms deliveries to Ukraine. The plan was part of a broader G7 vow to provide Kyiv with long-term security commitments to help it ward off Russian aggression.

Getting the EU's 27 member states to agree to new aid for Kyiv became more difficult due to the fact that continued financial support for Ukraine had been linked to a legislative proposal for a major overhaul of the EU's long-term budget. The Commission recently asked the 27 states to contribute an extra 66 billion Euro to the common budget, much to the displeasure of some national governments struggling with stagnating economies and tight budgets at home.

Germany - which last week said it would double its own funding for Ukraine to eight billion Euro next year - is reluctant to add more money to the EU pot. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said that existing money should be better used before more contributions are demanded from EU members.

Hungary, Russia's closest ally in the bloc, has expressed scepticism over the plan. Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orbán has said that he is not ready to agree to new money for Ukraine.

The new Slovak government led by Robert Fico will no longer provide state-level military aid to Ukraine. Yet, it will respect arms contracts for Ukraine by private companies in Slovakia, Juraj Blanár, the country's minister of Foreign and European Affairs, said in Brussels on Monday. Last week, the government blocked a military aid package to Ukraine worth 40.3 million Euro that was planned by the previous administration.

European willingness to assist Ukraine remains evident

Although plans to spend more money to help Ukraine defend itself against Russia are coming under increasing pressure, the willingness in Europe to support Ukraine and its people - whether through financial, military or other forms of assistance - has not entirely wavered.

Regardless of its position on state-level military aid, Slovakia's foreign minister also underlined that Slovakia wants to help Ukrainians in the upcoming winter with humanitarian aid and mine clearing. Slovakia also supports Ukraine's aspirations to become a member of the EU.

A new European F-16 training centre was inaugurated in Romania this week, which will primarily train Romanian pilots but will also be open to allied and partner countries, including Ukraine. Under the agreed terms that allowed the centre to open, Romania will provide a military base for training, while the Netherlands will supply the aircraft and the US defence company Lockheed Martin will provide instructors and maintenance. Ukraine is expected to start receiving F-16s from some of its Western allies in 2024.

According to Bulgarian Defence minister Todor Tagarev, Bulgaria guarantees its own security by helping Ukraine. Helping Ukraine even minimally is worth it, the minister stressed, following the Bulgarian Parliament's decision on September 27 to approve a resolution on the provision of additional military aid to Ukraine. On Tuesday in Brussels, Tagarev told Bulgarian journalists that the war in Ukraine will likely continue and the EU member states will need to replenish their military inventories, which means that the Bulgarian industry will be receiving orders.

North Macedonia's Defence minister Slavjanka Petrovska said in a TV appearance on November 6 that a new request for additional military aid had arrived from Ukraine, and was currently being reviewed by the General Staff of the Army. 'If we get a positive opinion, I will immediately forward the request to the Government, and it will be adopted,' Petrovska said, adding that the request from Ukraine is classified.

Albania has joined the EU's sanction package against Russia as part of the reaction to the war in Ukraine. Albania is also part of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group (UDCG), represented by its minister of Defence, Niko Peleshi. UDCG is a US-led initiative that brings together allies and partners from around the world to discuss cooperation and the security challenges arising from the Russian aggression in Ukraine.

Borrell and Breton: industry capacity is there

With regard to the promised ammunition, EU Internal Market Commissioner Thierry Breton assured the bloc's defence ministers on Tuesday that Brussels' plans to encourage arms companies have prepared them to produce the agreed quantity. He also made clear that he believes the bloc would be able to meet the target of being able to produce 'more than a million' shells by next spring.

'The industry has the capacity to produce a million projectiles a year, but that does not mean that we will have a million ready by March,' Josep Borrell commented, adding that 'it is up to the member states to pass on the orders for such production'. In any case, he stated that the 'political goal' of reaching one million is 'ambitious' but that 'we continue to strive for it'.

Borrell said a major issue was that European defence firms were exporting about 40 percent of production to other countries. He called on member states to prioritise ammunition exports to Ukraine in order to provide more ammunition more quickly. The question, according to Borrell, is whether the countries, which are the ones that ultimately have to send the material to Kyiv, will organise themselves to order the production in time.

The foreign policy chief said countries have placed joint orders for 180,000 more of the 155-millimetre shells, but that figure is due only by the end of next year.

Borrell said he would brief European leaders on his work with Ukrainian authorities to push for long-term security guarantees and that he would present a new proposal for security commitments and military aid for Ukraine in December.

This article is published weekly. The content is based on news by AFP, Agerpres, ATA, BTA, dpa, EFE, MIA, TASR agencies participating in the enr.AGERPRES

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020231117ejbh0012x


Court of Justice of the European Union Judgment: Neves 77 Solutions (C-351/22)
4847 字
2023 年 11 月 24 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Luxembourg: Court of Justice of the European Union has issued the following Judgment on (23 November 2023):

OPINION OF ADVOCATE GENERAL

ĆAPETA

delivered on 23 November 2023(1)

Case C‑351/22

Neves 77 Solutions SRL

Agenţia Naţională de Administrare Fiscală - Direcţia Generală Antifraudă Fiscală

(Request for a preliminary ruling from the Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest, Romania))

(Reference for a preliminary ruling - Common foreign and security policy (CFSP) - Restrictive measures adopted in view of Russia's actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine - Council Decision 2014/512/CFSP - Jurisdiction of the Court of Justice - Articles 2, 6, 19 and 24 TEU - Articles 267 and 275 TFEU - Prohibition on brokering services in relation to military goods - Implementation by the Member States - Administrative fine - Confiscation of sums received - Alleged breach of general principles of EU law and fundamental rights - Principle of legal certainty - Principle of nulla poena sine lege - Article 17 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union - Article 1 of Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on Human Rights - Right to property)

I. Introduction

1. In 2014, as a response to the unprovoked violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity by the Russian Federation, the European Union adopted several restrictive measures against that country. The present case concerns restrictive measures introduced by Decision 2014/512/CFSP. (2)

2. The most important issue raised by this case is whether the Court can interpret provisions of that decision, given the limitations imposed on its jurisdiction in the area of the common foreign and security policy ('CFSP') by Article 24(1) TEU and Article 275 TFEU.

3. The present case is being heard by the Court in parallel with two joined cases, KS and KD v Council and Others and Commission v KS and Others (Cases C‑29/22 P and C‑44/22 P; 'the KS and KD cases'), in which my Opinion is being delivered on the same day. The latter cases also raise the question of the scope of the limitations on the Court's jurisdiction in the CFSP. I will therefore refer to my Opinion in those cases where relevant.

4. The broader context of both sets of cases is the ongoing negotiations on the accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights ('ECHR'). All other negotiating chapters, which were opened as a result of Opinion 2/13, (3) seem to be closed, except for one remaining issue: the scope of the EU Courts' jurisdiction in the CFSP.

II. The facts in the main proceedings, the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and the procedure before the Court

5. Neves 77 Solutions SRL ('Neves') is a company created in 2014, having as its main activity brokering in the sale of products in the field of aviation.

6. Neves brokered a transaction between the Ukrainian company SFTE Spetstechnoexport ('SFTE') and the Indian company Hindustan Aeronautics Limited ('Hindustan').

7. In 2009, those two companies entered into a contract, whereby SFTE undertook to supply and repair several aircraft for Hindustan using components that were manufactured in Russia. However, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine in the region of Crimea in 2014, SFTE stopped purchasing the parts and equipment needed for that contract directly from Russia.

8. On 4 January 2019, SFTE contracted with Neves to supply it with 32 R-800L2E radio sets, which were to be delivered to the United Arab Emirates. On 8 January 2019, Neves, in turn, contracted with a Portuguese company to buy the 32 R-800L2E radio sets, 20 of which were manufactured and exported from Russia to the United Arab Emirates. Neves then transferred those 20 radio sets to Hindustan in India as per SFTE's request.

9. By notice of 26 July 2019, the Romanian Department of Export Control ('ANCEX') informed Neves that the R-800L2E radio sets were included in category ML11 on the list of military products subject to the system of control of exports, imports and other transactions in Decree No 901/2019 of the Minister for Foreign Affairs ('Decree No 901/2019'). (4) That notice also indicated that foreign trade involving that product could be carried out, in accordance with Romanian law, only on the basis of the registration confirmation and the licences issued by ANCEX.

10. By notice of 29 July 2019, ANCEX further informed Neves that the brokering transaction relating to the R-800L2E radio sets came within the scope of restrictive measures against Russia introduced by Decision 2014/512/CFSP.

11. Neves responded to the two ANCEX notices, claiming that the radio sets in question were intended for civil use and that Decree No 901/2019, which transposed into Romanian law the EU list of military goods and on which ANCEX relied, did not apply at the time of delivery of those goods. According to Neves, Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP did not apply either, since those radio sets were not sold to Russia.

12. On 6 and 9 August 2019, Neves received from SFTE sums totalling EUR 2 984 961.40 as payment for the radio sets delivered pursuant to the contract of 4 January 2019.

13. On 12 May 2020, the Romanian National Tax Administration Agency - Tax Fraud Department ('ANAF') (5) issued an infringement notice against Neves. ANAF considered that Neves had committed an offence under Article 26(1)(b) of Decree-Law 202/2008 for having infringed Articles 3(1), 7(1) and 24(1) of that decree-law and Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP. That decree-law regulates the manner of implementation at the national level of international sanctions, including those imposed by the European Union. The provisions of that decree-law on which ANAF relied provide that acts imposing international sanctions (including EU decisions under the CFSP) bind public authorities and all natural or legal persons located in Romania. They also introduce the obligation that natural or legal persons notify the competent authorities if they have established a relationship or have been in a de facto relationship relating to transactions covered by international sanctions.

14. Accordingly, Neves was fined RON 30 000 (approximately EUR 6 000), and the sum of RON 14 113 003 (EUR 2 984 961.40) was confiscated, representing the sums it received on 6 and 9 August 2019 from SFTE.

15. In that infringement notice, ANAF indicated that, although ANCEX had informed Neves that the R-800L2E radio sets were on the list of military products subject to the system of control of exports, imports and other transactions, and that the brokering transaction concerning that product came within the scope of Decision 2014/512/CFSP, Neves had continued operations relating to the sale of those products by collecting the sums received in a Romanian bank account.

16. Neves contested the infringement notice before the Judecătoria Sectorului 1 București (Court of First Instance, Sector 1, Bucharest, Romania). By judgment of 2 November 2020, that court dismissed Neves' complaint as unfounded.

17. Neves brought an appeal against that judgment before the Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest, Romania), the referring court in the present case.

18. The referring court explains that, on the basis of the national measures implementing EU restrictive measures, Neves incurred an administrative penalty consisting of a fine, as well as an additional penalty of confiscation of the amounts that it received for the brokering transaction from SFTE. The referring court further notes that the domestic legislation introduced a separate obligation to notify the competent authorities of any transaction falling within the scope of the prohibition on brokering services set out in Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP, under penalty of automatic confiscation of any proceeds resulting from the breach of that obligation.

19. The referring court essentially wonders whether, taking account of Neves' claims regarding the lack of proportionality of the penalty of full confiscation in the light of the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights ('ECtHR') on the right to property guaranteed by Article 1 of Protocol No 1 to the ECHR, (6) the national implementing measures run counter to certain general principles of EU law and rights contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union ('the Charter').

20. Additionally, the referring court asks whether the prohibition on brokering services laid down in Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP applies to the situation in the main proceedings, involving goods that come from Russia and that have not been physically imported into the territory of a Member State.

21. The referring court observes that the Court has not previously ruled on the provisions of Decision 2014/512/CFSP whose interpretation is requested, and that the circumstances of this case differ from those giving rise to the judgment in Rosneft. (7)

22. Under those circumstances, the Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest) stayed the proceedings and referred the following questions to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling:

'1. Can Decision 2014/512/CFSP, in particular Articles 5 and 7 thereof, in the light of the principles of legal certainty and nulla poena sine lege, be interpreted as permitting (by way of a civil penalty) a national measure authorising the confiscation of the entire proceeds of a transaction, such as the one referred to in Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP, in the event that an act categorised by domestic law as a summary offence is found to have been committed?

2. Is Article 5 of Decision 2014/512/CFSP to be interpreted as allowing Member States to adopt national measures providing for the automatic confiscation of any proceeds resulting from a breach of the obligation to notify a transaction falling within the scope of Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP?

3. Is the prohibition laid down in Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP applicable where goods constituting military equipment, which were the subject of brokering transactions, were never physically imported into the territory of the Member State?'

23. Written observations were submitted to the Court by the European Commission. In addition, by way of measures of organisation of procedure provided for in Article 62 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice, the Romanian Government and the Commission were requested to answer additional questions in writing, including a question relating to the existence of the jurisdiction of the Court in the present case.

24. A hearing was held on 27 June 2023 at which Neves, the Netherlands and Austrian Governments, the Council and the Commission presented oral argument.

III. Analysis

A. EU restrictive measures generally and those relevant for the present case in particular

1. Adoption and implementation of restrictive measures

25. Within the framework of the CFSP, the Council may decide to impose restrictive measures against third countries, entities or individuals, pursuant to CFSP objectives as set out in Article 21 TEU.

26. In general terms, the purpose of restrictive measures is to bring about a change in policy or activity by the target country, part of country, government, entities or individuals. (8) According to the EU sanctions map, (9) there are currently over 40 (mostly country-related) EU restrictive measures in force.

27. Restrictive measures are adopted by the Council on the basis of Article 29 TEU, and are implemented at the EU or national level.

28. The measures concerning issues which fall within the competence of the Member States, or within shared competences that were not yet exercised at the EU level, are implemented only at the national level. Member States are under the obligation to adopt adequate measures, as they are legally bound to act in conformity with Council decisions in the CFSP. (10) It has been the practice so far that measures such as arms embargoes and travel bans are implemented directly by the Member States. (11)

29. Restrictive measures that fall within EU competence are, in principle, implemented at the EU level. Thus, measures interrupting or reducing, in part or completely, economic relations with a third country, including measures freezing funds and economic resources, are adopted by the Council, on a joint proposal of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the Commission, as a regulation under Article 215 TFEU ('Article 215 regulation'). (12) Such regulations are binding and directly applicable throughout the European Union and thus ensure the uniform application of restrictive measures in all the Member States. (13) Additionally, unlike a CFSP decision, an Article 215 regulation can directly create obligations for individuals in the Member States. Nevertheless, even if implemented through an Article 215 regulation, putting EU restrictive measures in practice might require additional measures at the national level.

30. CFSP decisions under Article 29 TEU and Article 215 regulations do not necessarily have entirely the same content. A CFSP decision might comprise measures falling within and outside the competences under the FEU Treaty, in which case an Article 215 regulation would not implement the entire content of that decision. (14) If a CFSP decision is implemented by an Article 215 regulation, it may be elaborated in further detail in that regulation.

2. Restrictive measures against Russia relevant for the present case

31. In response to Russia's invasion of the region of Crimea in Ukraine, already in March 2014, the European Union adopted Decision 2014/145/CFSP. (15) That decision provided for travel restrictions and the freezing of funds and economic resources of certain persons. It was implemented by Regulation 269/2014. (16)

32. Thereafter, as Russia failed to cooperate with the European Union's demands, the Council introduced a package of further EU restrictive measures by Decision 2014/512/CFSP. Restrictions were introduced in relation to financial services, dual-use goods, sensitive technologies and military goods. (17) Those measures have been amended numerous times, in the light of Russia's continued military aggression against Ukraine. (18) However, the present case concerns only the measures enacted by Decision 2014/512/CFSP.

33. Article 2 of that decision establishes various prohibitions related to arms and related military goods. (19) Article 2(2)(a) thereof sets out a prohibition on brokering services in relation to military goods. It provides that the following shall be prohibited:

'to provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to military activities and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of arms and related materiel of all types, including weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment, paramilitary equipment, and spare parts therefor, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in, or for use in Russia'. (20)

34. On the same day as Decision 2014/512/CFSP, the Council adopted Regulation 833/2014, (21) on the basis of Article 215 TFEU, in order to implement that decision. Regulation 833/2014 did not initially contain a prohibition on brokering services in relation to military goods. (22) Article 4(1)(a) of that regulation provided that it shall be prohibited:

'to provide, directly or indirectly, technical assistance related to the goods and technology listed in the Common Military List, or related to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of goods included in that list, to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia'.

35. Only recently, on 23 June 2023, the Council amended Article 4(1)(a) of Regulation 833/2014, (23) and included the wording 'and brokering services' after the words 'technical assistance'. (24) That amendment is, however, not applicable ratione temporis to the situation in the main proceedings.

36. At the relevant time, therefore, the prohibition on brokering services in relation to military goods set out in Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP was not implemented by Regulation 833/2014.

37. The Council's explanation as to why that prohibition was not implemented in an Article 215 regulation was the following. Exports of arms is a matter of Common Position 2008/944/CFSP, (25) which regulates all such exports, and not only those towards countries in relation to which the European Union has imposed an arms embargo. It provides that Member States must issue a licence for any export of military equipment. Therefore, nobody can export arms from the European Union without a licence obtained by the body established for that purpose in each Member State. That same common position obliges Member States to deny a licence for an arms export, inter alia, if the export is inconsistent with an arms embargo that is binding on Member States. (26) To facilitate the application of that common position, a Common Military List of the European Union was adopted. (27) All goods on that list are subject to export controls under Common Position 2008/944/CFSP. (28)

38. That general system regulating arms exports is, as explained by the Council, the reason why prohibitions of direct arms exports to countries under sanctions (arms embargoes) are not included in Article 215 regulations. The adoption of such regulations is necessary whenever the enforcement of restrictive measures requires the imposition of an obligation on individuals in the Member States, as such an obligation cannot be imposed directly by a CFSP decision itself. However, as all Member States had to create licensing systems and oblige all arms exporters on their territory to obtain such a licence, there is no need for an Article 215 regulation.

39. However, the Council considers that Common Position 2008/944/CFSP does not clearly require Member States to impose licencing obligations for brokering services in relation to military goods, even though Article 1(2) thereof provides that export licence applications also include applications for brokering services. (29) That is why the practice varies, as it is sometimes deemed necessary, and sometimes not, to implement the prohibition on brokering services in relation to military goods by an Article 215 regulation. (30)

40. Even if I do not find the Council's explanation convincing, that does not change the fact that the prohibition on brokering services in relation to military goods was not included in Regulation 833/2014 in the version applicable to the present case.

B. Reformulation of the questions and the Court's jurisdiction

41. The Tribunalul București (Regional Court, Bucharest) framed its preliminary questions as a matter of interpretation of certain provisions of Decision 2014/512/CFSP. However, as is clear from its explanation as to why it referred, that court essentially seeks the Court's guidance regarding the compatibility of national implementing measures with EU fundamental rights and principles.

42. Romanian law chose to sanction persons who engage in brokering services contrary to EU restrictive measures by an administrative fine and confiscation of the entire gain resulting from the prohibited transaction as a civil law sanction. Those sanctions are the choice made by the national legislator in application of EU restrictive measures, including those imposed against Russia. Such measures are not required by Decision 2014/512/CFSP, nor does any participant to these proceedings claim that they are.

43. Thus, the first two questions, even if framed as asking for an interpretation of certain provisions of Decision 2014/512/CFSP, do not in fact require an interpretation of that decision. Instead, they require that the Court interpret certain principles of EU law to which the national court refers, namely legal certainty, nulla poena sine lege and the right to property.

44. I, therefore, propose to reformulate the first two questions referred.

45. The first question in essence asks whether the principles of legal certainty and nulla poena sine lege and the fundamental right to property are to be interpreted as precluding national measures providing for the confiscation of the entire proceeds of the transaction prohibited by Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP.

46. The second question in essence asks whether those EU rights and principles are to be interpreted as precluding national measures providing that such confiscation is automatic and follows from a breach of the obligation to notify a transaction falling within the scope of Article 2(2)(a) of Decision 2014/512/CFSP.

47. The third question requires an interpretation of Decision 2014/512/CFSP itself, as it relates to the notion of brokering services that it prohibits.

48. I do not see any obstacles preventing the Court from answering the first two questions as reformulated. The Court has jurisdiction to interpret general principles of EU law and fundamental rights as expressed in the Charter. That is so, even if the Court's interpretation is relevant for the assessment by a national court of the lawfulness of national measures that implement the CFSP.

49. As I suggested in my Opinion in the KS and KD cases, (31) the Court would have jurisdiction to interpret general principles of EU law and fundamental rights as expressed in the Charter also when that interpretation is relevant for the assessment of the lawfulness of the CFSP decision. That is not the situation in this case. However, had Decision 2014/512/CFSP itself imposed confiscation as a measure to be implemented by Member States, the reference by a national court would be a reference asking about the validity of a CFSP measure. The Court's jurisdiction to hear such a reference is not excluded by Article 24(1) TEU and Article 275 TFEU.

50. The reason I have proposed such an interpretation of Article 24(1) TEU and Article 275 TFEU is because they are an exception to the Court's general jurisdiction under the Treaties and must be interpreted narrowly. (32) If so interpreted, those Treaty provisions do not exclude the Court's jurisdiction to review compliance of all CFSP measures, including those of general application, with fundamental rights protected under the EU legal order. To interpret Article 24(1) TEU and Article 275 TFEU as excluding the Court's jurisdiction in such cases would not be consistent with the constitutional foundations of the European Union. It would deprive the Court of its constitutional role to ensure that the EU institutions and bodies do not infringe fundamental rights guaranteed by the EU legal order. It would therefore leave individuals without effective judicial protection of their EU-based fundamental rights. That could not have been the intention of the authors of the Treaties when they limited the Court's jurisdiction in the CFSP.

51. In contrast, it could have been the intention of the authors of the Treaties to exclude the Court's jurisdiction to interpret CFSP measures merely in order to clarify their meaning for the purpose of their application in the Member States. Article 24(1) TEU and Article 275 TFEU should therefore be interpreted so as to exclude such jurisdiction. I will explain this position in more detail in my answer to the third question.

C. The first and second questions

52. The first two questions relate to the potential unlawfulness of the confiscation measures imposed by Romanian law. There are three possible reasons of such unlawfulness that were raised by the referring court: breach of the principle of legal certainty, the principle of nulla poena sine lege and the right to property.

53. To my mind, and as indicated by the Commission, those first two principles are not relevant in the present case.

54. The principle of legal certainty, in the sense in which it was relied upon by Neves, precludes a new rule of law applying retroactively to a situation acquired before its entry into force. (33) In the present case, Neves contends that Decree No 901/2019, by which Romania established the list of military goods, transposing in that way the EU list, was not yet in force at the time when it entered into the transaction relating to the radio sets at issue. However, Decree No 901/2019 contains a list of military goods that is identical to the list set out in Decree No 156/2018, which was in force at the relevant time. Therefore, no problem of retroactive application of the law arises in the present case.

55. The principle of nulla poena sine lege relates to the legality and foreseeability of criminal offences and penalties. (34) Given that the confiscation imposed by the national measures is not a criminal penalty, but a civil law sanction, I fail to see how that principle could be implicated in the present case.

56. However, confiscation certainly interferes with the right to property, as guaranteed by Article 17(1) of the Charter. That right is not absolute and may, as provided for by Article 52(1) of the Charter, be limited in a proportionate way in order to achieve legitimate public aims.

57. To assist the referring court, it is necessary to interpret the Charter in order to clarify whether the right to property may be limited in order to achieve public objectives of Decision 2014/512/CFSP.

58. A similar question was already considered by the Court in Rosneft. (35) In that case, the Court rejected a challenge to the validity of certain provisions of Decision 2014/512/CFSP imposing individual restrictive measures and the corresponding provisions of Regulation 833/2014, which had been raised on the ground that they permitted the confiscation of assets and interference with property rights. The Court recalled its judgment in Bosphorus, (36) in which it considered that restrictive measures, by definition, have consequences which affect rights to property and the freedom to pursue a trade or business, which in that case allowed for their justification even when they caused harm to persons who are in no way responsible for the situation which led to the adoption of the sanctions. The Court concluded in Rosneft that such limitations can a fortiori be justified with respect to the consequences of targeted restrictive measures on the entities subject to those measures. (37)

59. In Rosneft, the Court further observed that the objectives pursued by the restrictive measures against Russia are the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence and the promotion of a peaceful settlement of the crisis in that country. Their achievement is part of the wider objective of maintaining peace and international security, in accordance with Article 21 TEU. (38) Those objectives were deemed to justify interference with the applicant's right to property.

60. One may thus conclude that the objectives of the restrictive measures against Russia can be a justification for the limitation of the right to property. The next question to be answered is whether confiscation is a proportionate measure to achieve those legitimate aims, and whether it is not overly intrusive to provide for automatic confiscation for the failure to notify a transaction prohibited by those restrictive measures.

61. National measures implementing EU restrictive measures must be such as to enable the achievement of the objectives of the restrictive measures. In that sense, they need to have dissuasive effect. In choosing appropriate measures in that respect, Member States enjoy a margin of appreciation. That is necessary, as the situation in each Member State might differ. Which measures are sufficient to dissuade companies and individuals from engaging in prohibited transactions might require a country-specific answer. To my mind, as the Commission suggested, providing for confiscation in addition to a fine might indeed be necessary because application of the fine alone cannot produce the desired effect given that its amount is negligible in comparison to the amounts received in payment for the prohibited transaction.

62. Even if it may take into consideration national specificities, a national court must also take into consideration the requirements of EU law relating to the assessment of proportionality. In accordance with Article 52(3) of the Charter, for the purposes of interpreting Article 17 of the Charter, it is necessary to take into account the case-law of the ECtHR relating to Article 1 of Protocol No 1 to the ECHR, which establishes the protection of the right to property, as the minimum threshold of protection. (39)

63. In cases in which the ECtHR found confiscation measures to be disproportionate, it did so because they imposed an excessive burden on individuals, as they did not take into consideration factors such as the lawful origin of the confiscated sums and the fact that an intent to deceive the authorities had been lacking. Another factor in some cases has been whether the confiscation measure had been an additional sanction. (40)

64. In the present case, confiscation is imposed as an automatic measure which arises as a consequence of the failure to notify the prohibited transaction. I can agree that, in principle, automatic confiscation which does not allow a court to assess the circumstances of the case might prove problematic from the point of view of its proportionality. Nevertheless, it seems that Romanian law attaches automaticity of the confiscation to the fact that the prohibited and thus unlawful transaction was not notified. Therefore, if a judge finds that the transaction was legal, the automatic confiscation would not follow as a consequence.

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020231124ejbo0007z


LAW & CRIME
Romanian Diplomat Iulia Motoc Elected as Judge at International Criminal Court, Marking a Diplomatic Success
431 字
2023 年 12 月 5 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2023. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
Iulia Motoc has been elected as a judge of the International Criminal Court. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs welcomes her appointment in this capacity, following the elections held on December 4, 2023, emphasizing that it is a milestone for Romania and represents a success of Romanian diplomacy.

The International Criminal Court is the only permanent international criminal court that adjudicates crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide, or crimes of aggression.

According to a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Iulia Motoc’s promotion to a judge’s position at the International Criminal Court and her election to this position are part of Romania’s active efforts to support the International Criminal Court, a unique institution mandated to sanction those who commit crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide, or crimes of aggression, under the Rome Statute. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs expresses its belief that Professor Iulia Motoc’s vast expertise in the field of protecting and promoting fundamental rights will contribute to strengthening professionalism and ethics at the International Criminal Court, reinforcing justice at the international level,” the statement said.

The International Criminal Court (ICC) is the first and only permanent international criminal court, the source specified. “This institution was established by the Rome Statute of the ICC, adopted on July 17, 1998, which entered into force on July 1, 2002. Currently, 123 states are parties to the ICC Statute. The ICC is complementary to national criminal jurisdictions, and its jurisdiction includes the most serious crimes affecting the international community as a whole. Romania has traditionally been a supporter of international criminal justice. Through the voice of the illustrious diplomat and jurist Vespasian Pella, Romania advocated for the establishment of a permanent international criminal jurisdiction to support peace and stability in the world, even during the interwar period. Romania signed the Rome Statute of the ICC on July 7, 1999, and ratified it through Law no. 111 of March 28, 2002, being among the first 60 states to undertake this step, thus enabling the entry into force of the Statute,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs recalls.

Most recently, Romania was among the states that, on March 2, 2022, petitioned the Prosecutor of the ICC to investigate war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide committed in the context of the war initiated by Russia against Ukraine, according to the statement.

The post Romanian Diplomat Iulia Motoc Elected as Judge at International Criminal Court, Marking a Diplomatic Success[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/society-people/law-crime/romanian-diplomat-iulia-motoc-elected-as-judge-at-international-criminal-court-marking-a-diplomatic-success/] appeared first on The Romania Journal[https://www.romaniajournal.ro].

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Iulia-Motoc.jpg]

Black Zonure SRL

文件 ROMJO00020231205ejc50008d


Romania This Week - December 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 12 月 15 日, 13084 字, (英文)
Romania’s Fiscal Council says public deficit will “very likely” increase significantly in 2024Romania’s Fiscal Council (CF) concluded on December 14 that the public gap “will very likely exceed significantly in 2024 the [5.9%-of-GDP] ...

Romania This Week - January 5, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 1 月 5 日, 7049 字, (英文)
World Bank estimates remittances to Europe and Central Asia region fell 1.4% to $78bn in 2023Remittance flows to the Europe and Central Asia region are estimated to have declined by 1.4% to $78bn in 2023, according to the World Bank.

Wider Europe Briefing: Why Are The EU's Latest Russia Sanctions So Weak?
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 2024 年 1 月 8 日 09:59 GMT, 2214 字, (英文)

CE Noticias Financieras English
From Transcarpathia to Bessarabia: the far-right in Hungary and Romania dream of annexing Ukrainian territories
2392 字
2024 年 2 月 6 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Around 60% of Ukrainian grain traffic passes through Romania. The government in Bucharest is pro-NATO and pro-EU, without making a secret of it, and the country has been one of the most important logistical supports for Kiev in the war against the Russians. There are, however, ghosts on the political horizon. The rise of the Union of Romanians (AUR, radical right) in the polls, where it is in second place for the 2024 parliamentary elections, is a cause for concern in Brussels and Kiev.

The AUR has 20% of the vote. It is behind the ruling PSD (Social Democrats, 30%), but ahead of the other party in the governing coalition, the liberal PNL (18%). The AUR does not hide its fierce Euroscepticism, which in Romania is tempered by conspiracy theories, and its nostalgic tendency towards the days of the USSR. Russian propaganda has fertile ground here. And the new banner of the AUR leaders is the recovery of the territories that were once part of Romania and now belong to Ukraine.

Claudiu Tarziu, one of the two main leaders of the AUR, said last week that his country should "reunify" with Moldova and the Ukrainian border regions of Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina and Transcarpathia, according to the Romanian website "G4media", which has since been translated by other media, such as the "Kyiv Post". In January 2023, Tarziu was in Portugal at the invitation of Chega.

"We will only be truly sovereign once we restore the Romanian state within its natural borders," said Tarziu, who specified: "Bessarabia must return home. Northern Bukovina must not be forgotten, Southern Bessarabia, Transcarpathia, everything that was and is part of the Romanian nation must return to its state borders." It remains to be seen whether the idea is to buy a war with Hungary over the latter region, which the Hungarian far right has also been calling for, as we shall see.

The historic region of Northern Bukovina is part of the Chernivtsi district in southwestern Ukraine, while Bessarabia covers Moldova and parts of today's Chernivtsi and Odessa districts, also to the south, but already on the Black Sea coast. At the end of the Second World War, the whole of Bukovina was in the hands of the Soviet Union. In 1947, the Treaty of Paris made the northern half of Bukovina part of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, while the southern half became part of Romania. After the dissolution of the USSR in 1991, Northern Bukovina passed directly to the current Republic of Ukraine, an annexation that some AUR members believe was illegal.

The war is "not ours" As a NATO member that has already provided extensive military aid to Ukraine, Romania is considered a country involved in the Western effort to prevent the fall of Kiev. AUR leader George Simion disagrees, and recently wrote on Facebook: "It's not ours", referring to the war between Ukraine and Russia, which has been going on for almost two years. The hardliner opposes the transit of agricultural products from Ukraine through Romania and any kind of military aid, which includes plans to train Ukrainian pilots with F-16 fighter jets.

With almost a quarter of the vote and an electoral calendar that includes parliamentary, presidential, European and local elections in 2024, can the AUR undermine the relationship between the two countries? "This issue of territories has always been a topic for the far right, which resurfaces at certain times. The last time it was an important issue, I'd say very important, was in 1997, when Romania signed a friendship treaty with Ukraine, in which we recognized mutual borders, or we wouldn't have been able to join NATO," Romanian political analyst Vlad Adamesco told Expresso. "There were many protests from the far-right party of the time, which was called the Greater Romania Party, and from the name you can see that the opposition was severe," continues the co-founder of the political analysis website Politica La Minut.

The far-right "has dug up the issue again because there is a war, but the rise in voting intentions on the far-right has nothing to do with this Ukraine issue, it's linked to economic reasons, the rise in the cost of living, inflation, the great inequality that exists in Romania, the impact of the lockdown, all these things that are accumulating," he explains.

A NATO highway Romania is one of the major targets of the Kremlin's investment in propaganda. The website "PropaStop", which denounces fake news planted by Russia in Eastern Europe, recently published an analysis of a Russian post on Facebook which stated that the highway being built by the Bucharest government to connect the country to Ukraine would be a NATO project to annex parts of Ukraine.

"Romania's case is complex, because it is connected to the Black Sea and, although it is quite sure of its connection to the West and NATO, there are still tinges of mistrust towards the West and there may be more room than in other Alliance countries for Russian action. The narrative of polarization sets in and people start to worry exclusively about their internal problems, leaving aside concerns about the slaughter in Ukraine, which suddenly ceases to be important," researcher Olga Lautman, from the Centre for European Policy Analysis (CEPA), who specializes in relations between the Western far right and the Kremlin, told Expresso.

Since 2014, a disinformation campaign orchestrated by the Kremlin has repeatedly claimed that Ukraine's allies, including Romania, are planning to divide the country. There are several examples. "Romania, Hungary and Poland are going to steal territory from Ukraine" is one of the headlines dismantled by journalists on this site. Another is "Zelensky ready to unite Ukraine with Poland". More recently, "news" emerged that NATO troops were concentrating on Romania to "absorb Bukovina, Odessa and Moldova".

Adamesco stresses that "the question of territories is just a rehash of what Moscow says, adapted to the local reality. Kremlin newspapers periodically publish maps of how Ukraine will be divided between Russia and other states, for example, and that's how they keep this narrative alive."

A much more important topic, and one that everyone cares about, is the rights of the Romanian minority in Ukraine, but that too is being resolved between Bucharest and Kiev. "The idea that the Romanian minority in Ukraine is losing its identity isn't a fabrication of the far right, it's true. When it comes to this, Ukraine enters the dialogues as a topic, because politicians from the center often talk about it. But even this is being resolved, there is pressure for common and mutual standards, because these issues must be resolved before Ukraine can enter the EU."

The trauma of Trianon In Hungary, the issue is just as cyclical. And it came up again recently at a meeting of European far-right parties in Hungary. The Hungarian far-right party Mi Hazank (Our Nation) believes that if Russia succeeds in imposing its regime on Kiev, the lands that were Hungarian until the end of the First World War should revert to Magyar territory.

"As far as the war in Ukraine is concerned, our message is very simple: an immediate ceasefire, peace and resolution through talks," Mi Hazank leader Laszlo Toroczkai said at his party's conference, which was attended by members of the far-right parties Alternative for Germany and Forum for Democracy (Netherlands). He then added, quoted by Reuters: "If this war ends up with Ukraine losing its statehood, which may also be about to happen, then, as the only Hungarian party to take this position, let me signal that we claim Transcarpathia". He drew applause from those present.

"In the case of Hungary, propaganda penetrates by exploiting narratives that have to do with customs, or with what some Hungarians perceive as the end of traditional customs. The West is presented by these parties as a place without rules, where the family doesn't matter and where legislation is only passed to protect LGBTQ+ minorities. The idea of tradition is linked to the past, when everything was almost immutable for years, and that's what the far right relies on to sell ideas like these," analyzes Lautman.

It is through these extremist politicians that "the Kremlin is trying to normalize the idea of annexation". "The ultimate idea is to destroy the order that was created after World War II and to get it into the heads of some people who are more permeable to these discourses that it is normal for a certain country to annex territory belonging to another sovereign state, on the grounds that in the past those lands had been part of some empire."

Mi Hazank MPs (7 out of 199 in the Hungarian parliament) openly talk about their dream of conquering Transcarpathia again. The "trauma of Trianon" is one of the topics most dear to the Magyar far right and refers to the outcome of the Treaty of Trianon, through which Hungary, defeated in the war, lost two thirds of its former territory and almost half of its population.

"We can never give up on the Hungarians who live on the land that was taken away," argued one of the best-known supporters of "Greater Hungary", Mi Hazank MP Andras Bartal, in an interview with the international affairs website Balkan Insight (BIRN), which focuses on the East and the Balkans.

The Hungarian government's complaints that the Ukrainian-speaking population is looked down upon in Ukraine are not new; they only resurfaced, and intensified, with the Russian invasion, which used the same arguments to justify not only the large-scale intervention of 2022, but also the annexations of Crimea and territories to the east. According to President Vladimir Putin, the Russian-speaking population is allegedly being genocided there.

Hungarian associations happy with legislative changes Budapest has clashed with Kiev over what it says are restrictions on the rights of around 80,000 Hungarians to use their mother tongue. Kiev denies that it has acted to limit the rights of minorities and defends itself with the need to strengthen its national identity.

As the process of joining the European Union begins in 2022, one of the areas that has received attention from European leaders is the preservation of European languages in Ukraine. Volodymyr Zelensky's government changed the law that had been passed in 2017 and made Ukrainian the compulsory language of study from fifth grade onwards, a change that at the time was seen as an attack on their identity by the Romanian, Bulgarian and Hungarian minorities.

European Union

EU responds to "persistent problem" with threat and Orbán finally gives inRead also

Now, the reverse side of some of these paragraphs has brought peace to the non-Ukrainian speaking communities. "The legislative changes have given the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia the opportunity to ensure its existence for another 30 years," said László Zubánics, head of the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine, an association that represents the rights of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia, quoted by the Associated Press. He praised the Ukrainian government for the way in which it "has moved beyond the nation-building efforts that have characterized recent years and is taking into account the interests not only of the majority nation, but also of all the minorities and indigenous peoples living in the territory".

Unlike other areas that were part of the glittering Austro-Hungarian empire, this region, with 1.25 million inhabitants, is one of the least developed and poorest in Ukraine, affected by high unemployment, poor infrastructure and a shadow economy that takes an excessive toll on family budgets. It doesn't help that Transcarpathia is separated from the rest of Ukraine by the Eastern Carpathian fold, the third highest mountain range in all of Europe. The road back to Hungary seems much less tortuous than that of integration with the huge Ukraine on the other side of the icy mountains.

Orbán loses ground In the areas close to the Hungarian border, people speak more Hungarian than Ukrainian, funding for cultural activities comes from Hungary, especially from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's Fidesz party, and many streets are named after Hungarian heroes. There are Hungarian-language newspapers and radio stations, theaters, cinemas, traditional dance schools, etc. Orbán has made it easier for people from the region to apply for Hungarian nationality, which in turn allows them to vote.

In Berehove, says the same BIRN report, a small town in this region, about two kilometers from the Hungarian border, the Hungarian government helped set up a branch of the Matthias Corvinus Collegium, a conservative private educational institution that has 23 universities throughout Hungary and neighbouring countries.

War in Ukraine

Hungary says EU wanted to hand over Hungarian funds to KievRead also

The nostalgia that hangs over some politicians in Budapest doesn't seem to find an echo on the other side of the border, and even less so since Russia invaded Ukraine and Orbán positioned himself, if not openly on Putin's side, at least against the EU's efforts to sanction Moscow. A report in the Financial Times shows that the Hungarian prime minister's ambiguous stance on the war has wiped out his support among the Hungarian community.

The two main associations of Hungarians in Transcarpathia - the Hungarian Democratic Federation in Ukraine and the Cultural Alliance of Sub-Carpathian Hungarians - do not give any space to ideas of annexation. Speaking to BIRN, Karolina Darcsi, spokeswoman for the latter, said that "ethnic Hungarians will not insist on changes to the Ukrainian language law or any kind of autonomy" because "there is neither such an aspiration nor such an initiative".

Laszlo Zubanics, too, called the ideas of secession from the Ukrainian region "theater and propaganda" from Budapest. Support for policies to protect minorities is the central theme in this region, but support for Ukraine's EU candidacy is also very high. The Hungarian Prime Minister is not in favor of such an accession and has even said that it is "light years away" from happening.

Expresso was unable to get a response from either Bucharest or Budapest on the positions of these parties.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020240206ek2600qhy


Romania This Week - February 16, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 16 日, 14969 字, (英文)
European Commission expects moderate economic recovery in Romania in 2024 and 2025The European Commission revised downwards its forecast for Romania’s economic growth to 2.9% for 2024 and 3.2% for 2025 in its Winter Forecast on February 15,...

Romania supports adoption of new package of sanctions against Russia
232 字
2024 年 2 月 19 日 05:31 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2024 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Bucharest, Feb 19 /Agerpres/ - Romania supports the adoption of a new package of sanctions against Russia, enforced by the European Union, declared, on Sunday, for AGERPRES, the minister of Foreign Affairs, Luminita Odobescu.

The head of Romanian diplomacy participated, until Sunday, in the Security Conference in Munich, in the context of which the death of the Russian dissident Aleksei Navalny was announced.

She said that, in Munich, 'the news caused excitement and was a reconfirmation of what was known: what Russia, Putin, can do, not only in Ukraine, but unfortunately also in Russia'.

'Condolences were sent to the family, the wife (Iulia Navalnaia - ed.n) was present here, she sent a simple and emotional message and I think it is very important to show not only solidarity, but also to continue the sanction measures against Russia. In this meaning, a new package of sanctions is being worked on and Romania supports the adoption of a new package of sanctions,' Odobescu mentioned.

The Romanian minister emphasized that, at this moment, the discussions on this topic are focused on the consolidation of the sanctions regime. 'Let's see how we can make sure that they are not evaded, that they are not avoided by certain states,' added Odobescu.AGERPRES(RO - author: Oana Ghita, editor: Georgiana Tanasescu; EN - author: Catalin Cristian Trandafir, editor: Maria Voican)

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020240219ek2j0008d


A fragile EU unity amidst numerous crises? (enr)
1465 字
2024 年 2 月 21 日 09:09 GMT
AGERPRES
ROMPES
英文
Copyright 2024 AGERPRES All Rights Reserved
Brussels, Feb 21 /Agerpres/ - The Middle East, Ukraine and the Sahel - the EU is confronted with numerous crises at once. The EU High Representative Josep Borrell, is thus calling for more unity and wants to heighten the EU's ability to defend itself, if it wants to play a geopolitical role.

At the Munich Security Conference, the EU's High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, stressed that the EU's geopolitical agenda is being shaped by 'three geographical challenges which are Ukraine, Gaza, and the Global South'. In addition the European defence has suffered 'a long period of silent disarmament'.

He warned that 'Russia will be tempted to increase its political and military provocations against NATO countries'. He added: 'So the message is clear: We have a Russian problem ahead.'

Portuguese Foreign Minister João Gomes Cravinho stressed on Tuesday that Russian President Vladimir Putin 'doesn't just want a piece of Ukrainian territory, he wants to destroy the European project and that's why it's crucial that we don't allow him to win in Ukraine'.

The EU's chief diplomat Borrell stressed that 'the war in Ukraine and in Gaza has increased tremendously the political space of the Global South vis-a-vis us'. A confrontation between 'the rest against the West' must be avoided, since 'for Russia, this new geopolitical scenario has dramatically increased its position' since Israel's response after October 7, he warned.

Given the Israel-Hamas war, after a meeting of the blocs foreign affairs ministers on Monday, Borrell called for more unity in the EU, if the bloc wants to play a geopolitical role in the Middle East. He said he saw 'dispersion of approaches and many member states want to play their own game'.

Call for humanitarian pause in Gaza strip vetoed by Hungary

On Monday at the Foreign Affairs Council, all EU countries except Hungary called for an 'immediate humanitarian pause that would lead to a sustainable ceasefire, to the unconditional release of hostages, and to the provision of humanitarian assistance'. However, it was the first time since October 7, 2023, that the vast majority of EU member states had been able to reach a consensus for a ceasefire in Gaza.

'I know very well that if there is no unanimity, there is no position of the European Union, but there can be a sufficiently majority position, which without being formally a position of the European Union, represents the majority position. And 26 out of 27 certainly is,' Borrell said.

Sanctions against Israeli settlers in the West Bank

After Hungary blocked on Monday the EU from approving sanctions against Israeli settlers who have attacked Palestinians in the West Bank, now Spain, France, Ireland and Belgium have decided to impose sanctions on violent Israeli settlers unilaterally.

'I have been pushing for it [unanimity] during the meeting, one state did not want to join. There were 26 of us who agreed,' Spanish Foreign Minister José Manuel Albares said.

The Spanish government is preparing an initial list of dozens of people who have carried out violent acts against Palestinians in the West Bank, according to Albares, who added that the sanction will consist of a ban on entry to Spain.

Other European countries, such as Ireland and Belgium, have also signalled their willingness to impose sanctions on individual settlers, something the United States has already done.

At the same time, Albares assured that Spain will continue collaborating with the UN agency for Palestinian Refugees, UNRWA, and confirmed that they are preparing a new package of financial support in addition to the 3.5 million euros already announced and the ten million delivered in December.

'The work of this organisation is essential to meet the needs of almost six million displaced Palestinians,' not only in Gaza but also in the West Bank and other countries in the region, he said, and stressed that its role 'has no possible substitute'.

Albares indicated that he asked to have an evaluation carried out on a possible breach of international humanitarian law by Israel based on the association agreement of the community bloc with that country.

EU launches Red Sea mission

In response to the attacks by Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen on the Red Sea shipping route, the EU decided on Monday to formally launch a naval mission to protect shipping in the area. The dozens of Houthi attacks have roiled shipping in the Red Sea, forcing some companies to take alternative routes including a two-week detour around the tip of southern Africa.

The Houthis have been harassing the vital shipping lane since November in a campaign they say is in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza during the Israel-Hamas war.

The European Union aims to have the mission called Aspides (ancient Greek for 'shield') and running in a 'few weeks' with at least four vessels, an official said on February 16, 2024.

'Europe will ensure freedom of navigation in the Red Sea, working alongside our international partners,' European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said in a post on X.

'The constant attacks of the Houthi rebels threaten global trade and of course endanger our ships. And I say ‘our ships' because Greece has the largest fleet of any other country in terms of commercial shipping and that is why Greece immediately stood in favour of coordinated action by taking over the regular command of the European defence operation ‘Aspides' from the Headquarters of Larissa,' said Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis.

The United States is already spearheading its own naval coalition in the area and has conducted retaliatory strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen, as has Britain.

Egypt's President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said that revenues from the Suez Canal, which links the Red Sea with the Mediterranean, had fallen '40 to 50 percent' so far this year. The canal, which brought in 8.6 billion dollars (7.95 million euros) in the 2022-23 fiscal year, is a vital source of foreign currency for Cairo, which is suffering from a severe financial crisis.

So far France, Germany, Italy and Belgium have said they plan to contribute ships. The overall commander of the EU mission will be Greek, while the lead officer in operational control at sea will be Italian.

The EU says the mission's mandate, set initially for one year, is limited to protecting civilian shipping in the Red Sea and that no attacks will be carried out 'on Yemeni soil'.

Germany's Defence Minister Boris Pistorius sees the dangerous deployment of the frigate 'Hessen' in the Red Sea as a sign that Germany is willing and able to take on international responsibility but called the mission also 'the most dangerous deployment of the navy in decades'.

NATO's Eastern flank: Bulgaria and Czech Republic

Following the Munich Security Conference, Bulgarian Prime Minister Nikolay Denkov said after conferring with US Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, that Bulgaria is a key country in the efforts to protect the Black Sea region, and NATO's Eastern flank.

Bulgaria's prime minister pointed out that the current problems could be used as opportunities for the development of the region and for positioning Bulgaria and NATO in a way that would ensure stability. 'We are very committed and that is why we are here with Mariya Gabriel [Bulgaria's deputy premier] to work together where Bulgaria belongs - in the structures of Europe and NATO, as a reliable partner,' Denkov emphasised.

The Czech President Petr Pavel said at the Munich Security Conference on Saturday that the Czech Republic had found sources abroad for hundreds of thousands of artillery rounds, which it could deliver to Ukraine within weeks if it and its partners in the United States, Germany, Sweden or other countries could secure funding. Czech Defence Minister Jana Cernochová added that the countries that could cooperate on the ammunition shipments are making participation conditional on not disclosing specific details about them.

Fact Check

Russian disinformation: Fake news against Ukraine support

Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine, disinformation has been an important part of the Russian arsenal. After nearly two years of war, Moscow's propagandists have shifted their focus to undermining Western support for Kyiv, recognising its central role in maintaining Ukraine's resilience. Recent investigations by the AFP news agency have unveiled falsehoods, ranging from fake anti-Ukrainian posters in New York to forged documents alleging lavish property acquisitions by Ukraine's leadership.

Here is a fact check in German on Russian disinformation: https://faktencheck.afp.com/doc.afp.com.34JE8CY[https://faktencheck.afp.com/doc.afp.com.34JE8CY]

This article is published weekly. The content is based on news by AFP, AMNA, BTA, CTK, dpa, EFE, Europa Press, Lusa agencies participating in the enr.AGERPRES

AGERPRES

文件 ROMPES0020240221ek2l00105


搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	罗马尼亚
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	162
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 14:01 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate
