跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
The UK's permanent representative to the UN, Dame Barbara Woodward, has told an...
14106 字
2022 年 2 月 22 日 22:49 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The UK's permanent representative to the UN, Dame Barbara Woodward, has told an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council that "Russia has brought us to the brink", as she urged the country to "step back".

Cabinet minister Sajid Javid said: "We are waking up to a very dark day in Europe and it's clear from what we have already seen and found out today that the Russians, President Putin, has decided to attack the sovereignty of Ukraine and its territorial integrity."

The Health Secretary told Sky News: "We have seen that he has recognised these breakaway eastern regions in Ukraine and from the reports we can already tell that he has sent in tanks and troops.

"From that you can conclude that the invasion of Ukraine has begun."

Latvia's foreign minister said sanctions are effective in the long term in response to Vladimir Putin's actions in Ukraine.

Edgars Rinkevics told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "In a short perspective, yes of course - sanctions cannot stop Russia from invading Ukraine or from doing what they did, but in the long term, especially, those sanctions are related to technology transfers, to financial sector, they actually would slow down developmental pressure and that would actually repeat some kind of Soviet Union experience.

"That at one given time in history, Soviet Union simply collapsed."

He called for the UK, EU and US to apply sanctions to oligarchs and key contacts of Mr Putin, increase Nato's presence on Russia's borders from the Baltics to Romania, to support civil society in Russia, and back Ukraine financially and with military equipment.

The sanctions being considered by Boris Johnson will target individuals closely linked to the Kremlin, Sajid Javid said.

The Health Secretary told LBC: "There will be sanctions, the Prime Minister has been clear about that.

"I am sure from what has already been shared by the Prime Minister that individuals that have close contacts with the Russian regime will be targeted, as will certain economic sectors."

Kurt Volker, a former US ambassador to Nato, said Russia's actions in Ukraine have created a "very dire" situation.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Russian leader Vladimir Putin's decision to recognise two regions of Ukraine as independent states "opens the door to a lot of new steps by Russia".

"We've already seen him putting forces into those territories. The portion of Luhansk and Donetsk that Russia occupies are not the entire territory of Luhansk and Donetsk.

"So that also opens the possibility that they will view Ukraine as an occupier of those territories, and then fight to remove Ukrainian forces and take more.

"That in turn could lead to much greater skirmishes and fighting with Ukrainian forces which could easily escalate out of control, so this is a very, very dire time."

He said "devastating sanctions" should be imposed immediately.

General Sir Richard Sherriff, Britain's former top Nato commander, has called the Ukraine situation the most perilous in Europe for decades.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "This is the most dangerous moment in Europe probably at least since 1962 and the Cuban missile crisis, but it could be much worse than that because this is the invasion of a sovereign country which could turn into a catastrophic war with warfare on a scale not seen in Europe since 1945.

"So I think it's difficult to overstate the seriousness of the situation."

He said that while the war would initially be between Ukraine and Russia, the possibility that Nato could get involved is "very real".

He told the programme: "Nato has got to man the ramparts now."

He added that the West has to "assume the worst" when it comes to Russia's nuclear strategy.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has "completely torn up international law" by his actions in Ukraine and there will now be an "immediate package of economic sanctions", Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said.

These sanctions will be aimed not just at entities at regions including Donetsk but also "in Russia itself, targeting Russian economic interests as hard as we can".

He said further details will be given in the House of Commons later today.

Mr Johnson was speaking in Downing Street after a 6.30am meeting of the Cobra committee where he was briefed on the latest intelligence after Mr Putin ordered his troops to carry out "peacekeeping" duty in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions.

Boris Johnson has said the "first barrage of UK economic sanctions against Russia" will be revealed today as he warned Vladimir Putin is bent on a "full scale invasion of Ukraine".

After hosting an emergency Cobra meeting, the Prime Minister said: "This is I should stress just the first barrage of UK economic sanctions against Russia because we expect I'm afraid that there is more Russian irrational behaviour to come.

"I'm afraid all the evidence is that President Putin is indeed bent on a full scale invasion of the Ukraine, the overrunning, the subjugation of an independent, sovereign European country and I think, let's be absolutely clear, that will be absolutely catastrophic."

Boris Johnson said the UK will work to ensure that "Putin should fail" if he carries out a full-scale invasion of Kyiv, "which is what he seems to be proposing to do".

The Prime Minister told broadcasters that the UK will continue diplomatic efforts to avert violence but added: "I just want everybody to be in no doubt that if Vladimir Putin continues down this track of violence, of aggression, of a full-scale invasion, of encircling Kyiv itself which is what he seems to be proposing to do, capturing the Ukrainian capital, it is absolutely vital that that effort, that conquest of another European country, should not succeed and that Putin should fail."

Boris Johnson said the UK's sanctions will hit the "economic interests that have been supporting Russia's war machine".

Speaking after a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee, the Prime Minister said: "They will hit Russia very hard and there is a lot more that we are going to do in the event of an invasion.

"Be in no doubt that if Russian companies are prevented from raising capital on the UK financial markets, if we unpeel the facade of Russian ownership of companies, of property, it will start to hurt."

Boris Johnson said there had been a failure to stand up to Russia in 2014 when Crimea was annexed.

"We have got to recognise that we were not tough enough and in the end we didn't do enough, as Europeans, to wean ourselves off Russian hydrocarbons, off Russian oil and gas," the Prime Minister said.

The volatility in gas prices in Europe was a "consequence of that failure", he said.

"We have got to make sure that we cut the umbilicus, we snip the drip feed into our bloodstream from Nord Stream," he added.

Boris Johnson said Russian President Vladimir Putin has "gravely miscalculated" the situation.

"He believes that Ukraine has no real right to exist as a sovereign, independent country," the Prime Minister said.

"But that goes against everything that we struggled to achieve at the end of the Cold War, it goes against the aspirations of the Ukrainian people.

"The most difficult thing now for Vladimir Putin in prosecuting this war... he will come up against something that I think will be very hard for him to beat, and that is the Ukrainian sense of national pride and their determination to defend their country and to fight for it."

Speaking about the crisis in Ukraine at a Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "What we saw through the night was President Putin's declaration that he is going to recognise independent states in the Donbas region, which includes territory which is actually on the other side of the line of control.

"We've seen, in open source reporting, Russian military equipment moving into that region.

"We'll have to verify that given what we know about Russian media performances and truth versus reality.

"These are worrying signs, of course - the clear fact that Russia has broken international law, and I just want to point correspondents to President Putin's speech itself."

Boris Johnson said shifting away from Russian oil and gas would help with energy security.

The Prime Minister said: "In the UK we have been able to reduce our dependency on Russian gas very substantially.

"Only 3% of our gas supplies now come from Russia."

Mr Johnson said the response includes granting licences for UK gas reserves but also shifting to low-carbon energy, including nuclear power.

He added: "The faster this country can be more self-reliant on our own energy, the more prosperous we will be, but also, of course, the more sustainable our energy prices will be, and that will benefit the UK consumer."

Continuing his opening speech at the Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "It's incredibly serious what's happening in Ukraine.

"Many of us were forewarning that President Putin already had an agenda - you heard that agenda in his speech last night.

"This is a sovereign state which has now had some of its land effectively annexed from it.

"This is a sovereign state, a democratic state in Europe. All of us in Europe should worry and not hesitate to take whatever action we need to to deter President Putin from undermining both Nato, but also Europe and, more importantly, our values."

Cabinet minister Sajid Javid compared the Ukraine situation to the Cuban Missile Crisis at the height of the Cold War.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I do think it's as serious a situation as that. There is still an opportunity here for President (Vladimir) Putin to step back, despite him having now chosen confrontation over dialogue. It is not to late for him to step back and bring his troops back into Russia and open dialogue.

"But we have to be realistic - clearly that does not seem his intent, certainly at this point in time, and we have to respond very significantly.

"This is a real test for the West as well."

Ukraine is not a member of Nato, but Mr Javid made clear that if Russia does carry on and invade one of the alliance's eastern states, then there will be war.

"If the territorial integrity of a single Nato member is violated then that is tantamount to declaring war on every member of Nato."

Hungarian airline Wizz Air said it will continue to operate flights between the UK and Ukraine.

It said in a statement: "Wizz Air continues to closely monitor the situation in Ukraine.

"Currently, we have not made any changes to our schedule and all of our flights to/from Ukraine continue to operate as normal.

"All passengers with booked flights to and from Ukraine are advised to regularly check their mailboxes for further information about booked flights."

Speaking about the Ukraine crisis at the Joint Expeditionary Force defence ministerial meeting on Tuesday, Latvian minister Artis Pabriks said: "They (Russia) will have a small period of reconnaissance and thinking about what the West is doing and what it is planning.

"They will assess the responses, and if these responses aren't strong enough or convincing enough then the next stage will be more incidents on the de facto Ukrainian border.

"This will not be stopped by simply trying to apply for his mercy - it can only be stopped if we mean business and we are ready to engage.

"Our answer should be, 'our dear friend, we are a very peaceful alliance, but we are also ready to go into war for our freedoms. We are not afraid of you. If you want a war, you will get a war'."

The Foreign Office is increasing the support available to help Britons leave Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "The safety and security of British nationals in Ukraine is our top priority.

"All Brits should leave now via commercial routes while they are still available.

"We are bolstering our teams in the region to support British people as they leave and once they have crossed the border."

The deployment of Russian troops to two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine "amounts to renewed invasion of the country", Downing Street said.

But the UK does not currently view the move as a "full-scale invasion", according to the Prime Minister's official spokesman.

Asked for the Government's assessment of what will happen next, he told reporters: "There is no doubt that the deployment of these forces that we've seen reported in sovereign Ukrainian territory amounts to renewed invasion of the country. President Putin has sent his troops in, he's broken international law, he's repudiated the Minsk agreement.

"We believe that Russia's actions overnight could well be a precursor to a full-scale invasion. But clearly, we want to continue to pursue any diplomatic avenues that exist and we'll be speaking to other world leaders, as I say, and urging Russia to step back from this action."

The PM's spokesman went on to say: "I think what is true is that we do not see a full-scale invasion currently taking place. As I say, we have seen the deployment of these forces, which does amount to an invasion in that area. I wouldn't say necessarily it's a two-step process, but we will continue to see if there are ways to get Russia to pull back."

Downing Street said the UK would be prepared to "go further" with sanctions "should Russia choose to proceed with further aggression" towards Ukraine.

Asked if it was time for a "full panoply" of sanctions, or if there was still time for a "graduated approach", Boris Johnson's official spokesman said: "I'm not going to get into full details of what the Prime Minister will rightly set out to the House.

"He said this morning this would be the first barrage of sanctions, which gives you... an idea of what we will be setting out, and obviously we stand ready to go further should Russia choose to proceed with further aggression."

The Foreign Office is sending "rapid deployment teams" to countries neighbouring Ukraine to assist British nationals who cross over the border, Downing Street said.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said teams were being deployed to Poland, Moldova, Lithuania and Slovakia to provide consular support.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman told reporters: "This morning the Foreign Office has summoned the Russian ambassador. The meeting is expected to be taking place about now."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russia's ambassador Andrei Kelin had been summoned "to explain Russia's violation of international law and disregard of Ukraine's sovereignty".

"We are imposing severe sanctions in response," she added.

Mr Kelin was meeting the senior official at the Foreign Office, permanent under-secretary Sir Philip Barton.

Downing Street said the Prime Minister believes it is right to "snip the feed of Nord Stream from our bloodstream".

It comes after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz took the significant step of blocking the certification of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline that would have supplied gas directly from Russia to Germany.

Asked if Boris Johnson was pleased by the move, his official spokesman said: "Yes. I mean, we've seen what the Germans have said on this. And I think, you know, this has been something that the Prime Minister has been calling for for some time, and indeed again this morning - that Europe has to wean itself off Russian hydrocarbons.

"It's a point we've made consistently with regards to Nord Stream 2. As the Prime Minister said, it's right that we snip the feed of Nord Stream from our bloodstream."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of having "flagrantly violated" the Minsk peace agreements by recognising the "supposed independence" of two breakaway regions of eastern Ukraine, telling MPs: "In a single inflammatory speech, he denied that Ukraine had any tradition of genuine statehood, claimed that it posed a direct threat to the security of Russia and hurled numerous other false accusations and aspersions."

Mr Johnson said Russian tanks and armed personnel carriers have "since been spotted" in the breakaway regions, adding: "The House should be in no doubt that the deployment of these forces in sovereign Ukrainian territory amounts to a renewed invasion of that country.

"And by denying Ukraine's legitimacy as a state and presenting its very existence as a mortal threat to Russia, Putin is establishing the pretext for a full-scale offensive."

Boris Johnson told MPs: "I think honourable members will struggle to understand or to contemplate how in the year 2022 a national leader might calmly and deliberately plot the destruction of a peaceful neighbour.

"Yet the evidence of his own words suggest that is exactly what President Putin is doing.

"When I said on Saturday that his scheme to subvert and invade Ukraine was already in motion before our eyes, the events of the last 24 hours have sadly shown this to be true.

"We must now brace ourselves for the next possible stages of Putin's plan.

"The violent subversion of areas of eastern Ukraine by Russian operatives and their hirelings followed by a general offensive by the nearly 200,000 Russian troops gathered on the frontiers at peak readiness to attack."

Boris Johnson told MPs: "If the worst happens then a European nation of 44 million men, women and children would become the target of a full-scale war of aggression waged without a shred of justification for the absurd and even mystical reasons that Putin described last night."

In response to President Putin's military action in Ukraine, the Prime Minister told MPs: "Now the UK and our allies will begin to impose the sanctions on Russia that we have already prepared using the new and unprecedent powers granted by this House to sanction Russian individuals and entities of strategic importance to the Kremlin."

Those being sanctioned included five Russian banks and three "very high net worth" individuals.

Boris Johnson added: "Any assets they hold in the UK will be frozen, the individuals concerned will be banned from travelling here and we will prohibit all UK individuals and entities from having any dealings with them.

"This the first tranche, the first barrage of what we are prepared to do and we hold further sanctions at readiness to be deployed."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the resolve of the UK to defend Nato allies is "absolute" and "immovable".

He told MPs: "Let me emphasise what I believe unites every member of this House with equal determination: the resolve of the United Kingdom to defend our Nato allies is absolute and immovable.

"We've already doubled the size of our deployment in Estonia, where the British Army leads Nato's battle group, and when I met President Levits of Latvia, Prime Minister Kallas of Estonia in Munich on Saturday I told them that we will be willing to send more British forces to help protect our allies if Nato makes such a request.

"We cannot tell what will happen in the days ahead, but we should steel ourselves for a protracted crisis.

"The United Kingdom will meet this challenge side by side with our allies, determined that we will not allow Putin to drag our continent back into a Hobbesian state of nature."

The UK will "not give up" on a diplomatic solution to tension in Ukraine, the Prime Minister said as he announced new sanctions against Russia.

Boris Johnson said: "I will tell the House we will not give up. We will continue to seek a diplomatic solution until the last possible moment.

"But we have to face the possibility that none of our messages has been heeded and that Putin is implacably determined to go further in subjugating and tormenting Ukraine.

"It is because we suspect this much that the UK and our allies repeatedly sounded the alarm about possible new invasions and we disclosed much of what we knew about Russia's military build-up."

Boris Johnson said it is "precisely because the stakes are so high that Putin's venture in Ukraine must fail, must ultimately fail and must be seen to fail".

The Prime Minister added: "That will require the perseverance and the unity and the resolve of the entire western alliance and Britain, the UK, will do everything possible to ensure that that unity is maintained.

"And now, our thoughts should turn to our valued Ukrainian friends, who threatened no one, who asked for nothing except to live in peace and freedom.

"We will keep faith with them in the critical days that lie ahead. And whatever happens, Britain will not waver in our resolve."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said: "We know Putin's playbook. He seeks division. We must stay united."

He told the House of Commons: "Yesterday was a dark day for Europe.

"We must all stand firm in our support for Ukraine. We support the freedom of her people and their right to determine their own future without the gun of an imperialist held to their head.

"There can be no excuses for Russia's actions. There is no justification for this aggression."

He said President Vladimir Putin fears democracy and knows that, given a choice, people will not choose to live under the rule of an "erratic and violent authoritarian".

Sir Keir added: "So we must remain united and true to our values across this House and with our Nato allies. We must show Putin that we will not be divided."

Boris Johnson insisted there is "no chance" of holding football tournaments in a Russia that "invades sovereign countries".

With St Petersburg due to host this season's Uefa Champions League Final, the Prime Minister told MPs: "It's absolutely vital in this critical moment that President Putin understands that what he is doing is going to be a disaster for Russia.

"And it is clear from the response of the world to what he has done already in Donbas that he is going to end up with a Russia that is poorer as a result of the sanctions that the world will implement.

"A Russia that is more isolated, a Russia that has pariah status - no chance of holding football tournaments in a Russia that invades sovereign countries.

"A Russia that is engaged in a bloody and debilitating conflict with a fellow Slav country. What an appalling result for President Putin.

"I hope that he steps back from the brink and does not conduct a full invasion."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer welcomed the sanctions announced by Boris Johnson and the collective international response, but said "we must be prepared to go further".

Sir Keir said he understands the tactic of holding back sanctions to try to deter an invasion of the rest of Ukraine, "but a threshold has already been breached".

He said a sovereign nation "has been invaded in a war of aggression", and "if we do not respond with the full set of sanctions now Putin will once again take away the message that the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs".

He said he would work with the Prime Minister and international allies "to ensure that more sanctions are introduced".

He said Russia should be excluded from financial mechanisms like Swift, trading in Russian sovereign debt should be banned, Russia Today should be prevented from "broadcasting its propaganda around the world", and Nord Stream 2 should be cancelled.

Boris Johnson suggested the UK will consider offering further military support to Ukraine.

He told the Commons: "The UK will continue to offer support to our Ukrainian friends.

"I do think it's been right for us to be out in front in offering military assistance, defensive military assistance to the Ukrainians. I think that has been the right thing to do.

"I spoke last night to President Zelensky, who made further requests, and we will consider them - we're doing everything we can to offer support in the time that we have and we will do that."

Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves tweeted: "Labour stands in solidarity with the Ukrainian people who have shown resilience throughout Putin's aggression.

"This too must be a turning point and mark an end to the UK being a soft touch on oligarchs and illicit finance."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford gave his backing to the sanctions imposed on Russia and said his party stood united with the UK Government.

Mr Blackford added: "We stand with the Ukrainian people who are now under us all. A European country, an ally, is under attack.

"We should be very clear about what is now happening. This is an illegal Russian occupation of Ukraine just as it was in Crimea.

"Russia has effectively annexed another two Ukrainian regions in a blatant breach of international law. This effectively ends the Minsk process.

"It is a further violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.

"No one should even repeat the Russian lie that this is about peacekeeping. This is warmongering, plain and simple."

Conservative former prime minister Theresa May said the world was in the "gravest of times" which shows "we can never take our eyes off Russia".

Mrs May told the Commons: "While the focus today is rightly on protecting Ukrainian independence and territorial integrity, what lies behind this is a wider worldwide trend of authoritarian states trying to impose their way of thinking on others.

"And that the battle in which we must now engage is nothing more or less than the defence of democracy itself."

Boris Johnson said Mrs May was "entirely right", adding: "That is what's at stake and what happens in Ukraine now is being watched around the world, and the echoes will be heard in Taiwan, in east Asia and throughout the world."

In a joint statement, the 10 defence ministers of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) said: "We have reviewed the progress we have made in the development of the JEF as an agile, capable and ready force, and today agreed to undertake a series of integrated military activities across our part of northern Europe - at sea, on land and in the air.

"For example, we will shortly conduct an exercise demonstrating JEF nations' freedom of movement in the Baltic Sea.

"These and subsequent activities will remain preventative and proportionate.

"In acting together, we shall demonstrate the JEF's solidarity, capability and resolve to stand together for security and stability in our region."

The BBC Russian service should receive more funding so Russian people can "hear the truth" about what is happening in Ukraine, the Prime Minister has heard.

In the Commons, Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Tom Tugendhat asked: "May I ask, as we are talking about sanctions today and rightly so, will he commit to a foreign agents registration act?

"We have seen the action of the insidious work of the United Front for China and indeed of different outfits for Russia to undermine our democracy and threaten our way of life.

"Would he please bring in that act? And while he is doing it will he finance much more the Russian service of the BBC so that the Russian people can hear the truth and not the lies that are being spread by their own government?"

The Prime Minister replied: "I think the Russian service of the BBC has done an invaluable job and I think it is very important that it should continue to be financed.

"On his proposal for a foreign agent registration law, we are indeed considering what more we can to do counter threats to this country from within."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy tweeted: "We welcome the sanctions announced today, but we should go further.

"We need to impose a full set of sanctions now. If we do not, Putin will once again take away the message that the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said "we must stand ready with more military support for Ukraine to defend itself and we must stand ready to do more to reassure and reinforce Nato allies in eastern Europe".

Sir Keir said "we must also get our own house in order", adding "we have failed to stop the flow of illicit Russian finance into Britain" and that "Russian money has been allowed to influence our politics".

"We have to admit that mistakes have been made," he said, adding "this must be a turning point, an end to oligarch impunity".

He said Companies House must not provide "easy cover" for shell companies, and that anti-money laundering laws must be enforced, "we need to crack down on spies", and "we have to make sure money isn't pouring into UK politics from abroad".

He also asked what international efforts were going on to pursue diplomacy, saying "even at this late hour we must pursue diplomatic routes to prevent further conflict".

Sir Keir offered the support of the opposition to "do the right thing" and said President Putin "believes the benefits of aggression outweigh the consequences, so we must take a stand".

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said Vladimir Putin should not be allowed to "exploit" events like the Champions League final to legitimise the invasion of Ukraine.

"I have serious concerns about the sporting events due to be held in Russia, such as the Champions League final, and will discuss with the relevant governing bodies," she said.

"We won't allow President Putin to exploit events on the world stage to legitimise his illegal invasion of Ukraine."

Ukraine will have to be given the "means to defend itself" from future aggression or some "sort of security guarantee", Conservative former cabinet minister Liam Fox has said.

The MP for North Somerset told the House of Commons: "Can I say to my right honourable friend, sanctions can only achieve so much when dealing with an undemocratic state and someone like Putin. What we're witnessing is the real-time cannibalisation of a European democratic state bite by bite.

"And ultimately, we will have to ensure that either Ukraine is given the means to defend itself from future aggression or give some sort of security guarantee, or we will find Russian troops on the borders of Poland, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary, which would be an absolute failure of western policy."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson replied: "He's completely right in the sense that we will have to dig in for the long term to support Ukraine in every way that we can, economically, diplomatically, by the provision of military support, in the way that we are already."

Julian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee, called on the Prime Minister to "accept 3% of GDP on defence as a suitable future benchmark".

He asked: "Does (he) accept that too many Nato governments and political parties have accepted energy dependence on Putin and financial dependence on dodgy donations from Russian oligarchs?

"Given that we spent between 4.5 and 5% of GDP on defence throughout the 1980s until the end of the Cold War, will he now accept 3% of GDP on defence as a suitable future benchmark?"

Boris Johnson replied: "Completely right to say that we have failed to wean ourselves off dependence on Russian hydrocarbons since 2014, I think that's been a tragic mistake by European countries.

"In the UK we're in the fortunate position of only having 3% of our gas coming from Russia, but other European countries have learned that they have much more to do.

"By the way, I salute the decision of the German Chancellor Olaf Scholz to cancel Nord Stream 2. I think it's a brave step by Olaf and the right thing to do.

"On his point about defence spending, actually we're up at 2.4% now of GDP, I think one of the very highest in Nato, and we are the second biggest contributor, second biggest military power, in Nato already."

The UK should lead a "new European front against authoritarianism and autocracy" following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a Ukrainian MP has said.

Dmytro Natalukha, chairman of the Ukrainian parliament's economic affairs committee, told a think tank event on Tuesday that the UK was Ukraine's "boldest" ally.

Speaking from Kyiv to an event hosted by the London-based Council on Geostrategy, Mr Natalukha said: "I think that it's time for London to keep up the absolutely squashed European leadership and to become a new leader in Europe and build up a new European front against authoritarianism and autocracy.

"There is a vacuum of power, a vacuum of leadership, in the European continent. That vacuum needs to be filled and I think this potential alliance of London, Kyiv and Warsaw is a very great step towards filling that vacuum."

Speaking at a press conference on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "First of all Russia has already invaded Ukraine - they did it in 2014.

"They occupied illegally Crimea, Donbas, and this is a further invasion of that sovereign territory.

"No-one recognises the legitimacy of the occupation and annexation of Crimea - not even the Chinese have recognised that to date.

"We see this next step into Donbas - the recognition of these republics - not only against international law, but basically breaches, or trashes, of the Minsk Agreements, making it very hard to see a resolution in that space."

Russia's ambassador to the UK was told his country would "pay the price for its actions" after he was summoned to the Foreign Office.

Andrei Kelin was called to meet the Foreign Office's senior civil servant, Sir Philip Barton, on the orders of Liz Truss.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "The UK has urged Russia to explain its recognition of the so-called Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic and the movement of military forces into Ukraine.

"We have summoned the ambassador today to stress that such actions are a violation of international law.

"The UK reiterates its unshakeable commitment to the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine, and insists that Russia immediately withdraw all of its military forces.

"We made clear to the Russian ambassador that Russia would pay the price for its actions through further sanctions if it did not withdraw its troops."

Boris Johnson said "we should not allow our indignation, our rage, at what is happening in Ukraine to spill over into casual Russophobia".

Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi said in the Commons: "I am glad that the Prime Minister is talking tough and taking a strong stand against continued Russian aggression and imperialism, but when will he himself stop playing tennis with Russian oligarchs in exchange for money for the Conservative Party?"

The MP for Slough asked when the Prime Minister will fully implement the recommendations of the Russia report.

Mr Johnson responded by saying the Government is "way out in front of" European partners in what it is doing to implement sanctions on Russian entities.

He said: "Yes, it is absolutely vital that nobody should contribute to a political party in this country unless they are a UK national. And that is something that this Government insists upon.

"But what I don't think we should see, if I may just respectfully say - and I've just been listening to some of the contributions this morning - we should not allow our indignation, our rage, at what is happening in Ukraine to spill over into casual Russophobia.

"I don't want to see us discriminating against Russians as a people or simply on the basis of their nationality."

The way the West responds to Russian troops entering Ukraine will dictate what happens with China and Taiwan, Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith has said.

Sir Iain told MPs: "Should it not be now - and I commend what he has done so far - but should it not be that we need to hit them if we are going to hit them with sanctions hard and hit them now?

"They need to feel the pain of the first part of this decision. The second thing is, what is the ultimatum to them now? If they move further, are we going to take further action?

"And I simply say right now, we are facing the growth of the axis of totalitarian states. China will watch this and look at Taiwan, how we behave now and what we do as an alliance will dictate what happens in the far east."

Boris Johnson replied: "We are hitting them hard now and we will hit them harder in the future with every day that goes by which they violate the sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine, we will continue to punish Russia and, in the end, I don't believe that President Putin has thought this through and I do think that he will fail."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace continued: "We have a range of sanctions, we've made them public - we put them before Parliament a few weeks ago.

"We have chosen to use some of those sanctions - that doesn't mean to say we won't use more.

"We are prepared with a whole raft of sanctions.

"We also know that the most important message to send to President Putin is that we are completely unified across Nato, the EU and the US and the UK.

"We must do all of these things in lockstep - that's what we're doing."

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey urged the Prime Minister to "go further".

He said: "Freeze and begin seizing the assets of every single one of Putin's cronies in the UK and then expel these oligarchs from our country as part of a much stronger sanctions regime.

"Second, recognise the existential threat posed by Putin to our Nato allies by immediately cancelling (the Prime Minister's) own decision, his misguided decision, to cut our armed forces by 10,000 troops, and third, no longer tolerate international sporting or cultural events hosted in Russia.

"Can I confirm what I think he implied... that he will push for this year's Champions League final to be moved from St Petersburg? President Putin has made a terrible decision, will the Prime Minister make sure he pays a terrible price?"

Boris Johnson replied: "Yes... we are indeed cracking down on ill-gotten gains in London and on the cronies of Vladimir Putin.

"On his point about sporting events... I think it inconceivable that major international football tournaments can take place in Russia after, as I say, the invasion of a sovereign country."

The Prime Minister faced pressure from Labour and Tory backbenchers to go further with sanctions, as Russia had "already committed the crimes that deserve the most punishment".

Labour former minister Hilary Benn said: "The Prime Minister said... 'there is a lot more that we are going to do in the event of an invasion'. The Prime Minister has just told the House that he regards what happened overnight as a 'renewed invasion of Ukraine'. If that is the Government's view then why is he waiting before imposing full sanctions on Russia now?"

Boris Johnson replied: "I have been very clear that what we have wanted to do is have the biggest possible package of sanctions ready to go in the event of the Russians crossing into more sovereign Ukrainian territory. What we will also do is make sure that the sanctions that we implement are done in concert with our allies. That is what we are doing."

Conservative MP Bernard Jenkin (Harwich) said: "President Putin has already achieved so much of what he has set out to achieve and he may have no intention of launching a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, but he has already committed the crimes that deserve the most punishment from the free world.

"What are we going to do to continue to strengthen Nato, to unify Nato, which is exactly, of course, what he didn't want his policy to achieve?"

Mr Johnson said: "What he has succeeded in doing is greatly to unify Nato and to produce a much bigger commitment not just by the UK but by other European powers to reinforce Nato's eastern frontier."

Vladimir Putin could turn Russia into a "pariah state", Boris Johnson has warned.

In the Commons, the Labour MP for Knowsley, Sir George Howarth, said: "For over a decade Russia has been mounting cyber attacks on our critical national infrastructure and commercial infrastructure. For over a decade and there were no consequences.

"For over a decade Russia has been swirling dirty money around the City of London with no consequences.

"In order for Vladimir Putin to understand that he has now gone too far, he needs to be certain that if sanctions and diplomatic means don't succeed, then there will be consequences. Can the Prime Minister agree with me that those consequences need to be still on the table and Vladimir Putin needs to understand that they will be used?"

Boris Johnson replied: "We need to make it absolutely clear to Russia that as a result of this venture, this ill-conceived and disastrous venture in Ukraine, his country will end up, as I have said, poorer, more encircled by Nato, and engaged in a disastrous conflict with fellow Slavs - and a pariah state.

"That is what President Putin is willing on his people, a pariah state."

The Prime Minister said "it's great that the German Chancellor also now sees the importance" of defence spending, adding he had been campaigning for a long time for Germany "to shoulder more of the defence burden" in Europe and "that's a good thing".

He was responding in the Commons to Conservative former defence minister Johnny Mercer, who welcomed the sanctions but said: "We can't continue to consistently relearn the lessons of the past when it comes to drawing a line and being willing to hold that line military, if so."

The MP for Plymouth Moor View acknowledged defence spending has risen, but said the funding must be tailored to meet the threat, adding: "As the German Chancellor has mentioned this morning, that threat is changing."

He asked the Prime Minister to "keep an eye on that defence spending to make sure that if we are asked we can hold a line and we could lead Nato in the way that I know he wants to".

Boris Johnson said: "We have seen massive increases in our defence spending but we want to make sure that it is targeted on things like tackling cyber, disinformation, all the modern forms of warfare in which Putin also specialises."

Mr Johnson also said the threat "is not just to Europe, the threat from an aggressive and expansionist Russian agenda is everywhere, including in Africa".

Conservative former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt pressed the Prime Minister to increase defence spending and go further on sanctions.

Mr Hunt said he "strongly" supported the "robust" approach taken by the UK Government, adding: "But Putin will have predicted and discounted western sanctions long ago, so does he agree that if we are not to be behind in the diplomatic chess game, we need to do some things that he is not expecting?

"Firstly, a sustained increase in western defence capability and spend, and secondly, a sustained reduction in the ability of the Russian state to finance its own armed forces with economic and financial sanctions that don't last just until the next government decides to have a reset but, if necessary, for as long as this dangerous man remains president of Russia?"

Boris Johnson highlighted increased defence spending in the UK, adding in the Commons: "We will sustain that increase in defence spending and he's absolutely right about the financing of Putin's armed forces.

"The tragedy is that they've been financed from the proceeds of the sale of Russian oil and gas to western European nations and that is what's got to end."

Tobias Ellwood, Conservative chairman of the Defence Committee, said Nato "must not be benched".

He said: "Sanctions alone will not be enough, indeed untargeted sanctions may play into Putin's plan to pivot Russia ever closer to China.

"So would the Prime Minister agree Nato must not be benched?

"It was created to uphold European security and we must now consider how we utilise our formidable hard power deterrence in responding to Ukraine's calls for further help, not excluding the formation of a potential no-fly zone."

Boris Johnson replied: "What Nato is not doing and no Nato country is currently considering is sending combat troops to Ukraine, and he will understand the reasons for that, but that does not preclude support by Nato countries for Ukraine and including military support."

The Prime Minister said in addition to military assistance for eastern European allies, "we also need to share technology, particularly in renewables, to allow them to find a different future" and rely less on Russian energy.

He was responding in the Commons to Conservative former business secretary Andrea Leadsom, who asked for assurance that the Prime Minister was already considering what more could be done to protect allies in eastern Europe "from the inevitable consequences of the risky position we find ourselves in, in the dead of winter, with so much dependence on Russian gas".

Boris Johnson also said: "We need to work together to wean ourselves off, to end the dependency on Russian gas."

Conservative former minister Mark Harper asked for assurances that Boris Johnson will implement "further and stronger measures even if President Putin does no more".

Mr Johnson replied: "I think it's inevitable, given what is happening in Ukraine and on the borders of Ukraine, that we will be coming forward with a much bigger package of sanctions.

"What you have today is an opening barrage that we're doing in common with our friends and allies."

Conservative MP John Baron (Basildon and Billericay) told Mr Johnson: "I hope he takes away from this exchange today the strong cross-party support for tougher sanctions now, because that is what is needed."

He also asked the Prime Minister to consider a "substantial and sustained increase" in defence spending to ensure peace and stability.

Addressing reporters at the Joint Expeditionary Force meeting, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "Ukraine matters because many other countries are watching.

"Our resolve has been tested, as has the ambitions of President Putin's legacy.

"President Putin wants a legacy, it's our duty to make sure he gets a legacy, but not the one he is planning."

Asked if it was too late for diplomacy, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "It's never too late for diplomacy.

"We have spent weeks trying across Europe. President Macron has tried, the Chancellor of Germany has tried, the Prime Minister... has tried.

"He has not been short of people trying to engage both directly with him, and indeed, many of us in this room have tried to engage with a number of our counterparts.

"So it is never too late, but as I've always said, we'll take them at their word and judge them by their actions."

Asked if Vladimir Putin was planning further invasions in eastern Europe, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "The actions we've seen today and last night are absolutely according to his playbook.

"It's according to what he wrote in July last year, and if you want to know what his next intentions are, I recommend you listen to his latest speech, that he made last night, full of huge inaccuracies, one of which was that Ukraine is not a proper state.

"I should remind people, Ukraine has been separate to Russia as a nation longer than it has been part of Russia, that is a simple fact of history.

"He should look at his history books, and not selectively pick dates that suit his narrative."

Addressing reporters at the meeting of the Joint Expeditionary Force in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "First of all we've doubled from battlegroup to two battlegroups and a brigade headquarters into Estonia.

"We've made available 1,000 troops on readiness - they haven't been deployed.

"A lot of that will be done through the Supreme Allied Commander in Nato to make it available to him should he wish to place them in a place that will counter any threat.

"And we're absolutely open to doing even more if required because we need to send that clear signal to President (Vladimir) Putin.

"As I have warned and warned the Kremlin for weeks and months that as we knew in 2014 he gets the opposite of what he wants.

"He will get more forces on his borders, but just as he did in 2014, he will no doubt get more spending on defence from Nato to things that strategically would be the opposite of what he should be potentially wanting to achieve."

Sanctions on five Russian banks and three individuals announced on Tuesday are "impressive", Conservative MP Jonathan Djanogly has said.

Mr Djanogly, who is vice-chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Ukraine, told a think tank event that the West could return Russia "to the economic dark ages" if it chose to do so, but that this would require coordinated action.

He said it was "impressive" that the Prime Minister had announced sanctions so soon after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, saying: "In the past, he would not have done that. He would have come to the dispatch box and said we would be working with our European allies."

He added that ministers had given him the feeling that they were "going to take economic sanctions very seriously" and that there were "signs in recent days of the EU pulling together".

Continuing to speak to reporters in Leicestershire on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "Russia's malign activity is global. Only a few days ago, the French announced a withdrawal from Mali because of the presence and establishment of Wagner, the Russian mercenary group, in that country, joining up with the Malian Government.

"Russia is practising significant amounts of intimidation of the Black Sea, Russia is deploying significant amount of submarines and others into the Atlantic, and indeed further abroad.

"Only last year they went to Hawaii with a significant number of ships which hadn't been seen since the Cold War.

"I think what is clear here is that the president has decided he wants to demonstrate a new Russia, in his view, a Russia with new invested arms and equipment.

"We've seen satellite launches - in fact we've seen the destruction of a satellite that even upset the Chinese not so long ago because of the potential damage it can inflict, and I think that's what we should all be concerned about.

"A man who doesn't follow international law, a man who is now has a very large army on the doorstep of a sovereign state and seems to not even worry that the false flags and the fake news we are watching is so obvious, it is sadly almost comical."

Asked why Russia has not been handed the hardest and harshest sanctions yet, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said: "We already have significant sanctions against both individuals and other entities since 2014.

"Secondly the sanctions we have announced today, including against five Russian banks, are significantly harsh.

"There are still more sanctions in the tank, and the main thing is that we do all this together.

"Sometimes that means we have to move at slightly different paces, but fundamentally we are all following a path, both the United Kingdom, the EU, the United States, that will lead to sanctions being ratcheted up and over time I think that is really important that we do it in step.

"If we don't then I think President (Vladimir) Putin would absolutely try to exploit that to his benefit and that's why we will do this today at the level we are.

"On top of that, I think there's a plan to try and have a leaders' meeting to discuss the next stages of Nato."

President Vladimir Putin is in an "irrational frame of mind" and may not respond logically to sanctions, the Prime Minister has warned.

Labour MP for Chester Christian Matheson said: "I welcome the Prime Minister's statement but look, Russia is a mafia sate. Putin is the godfather, the 'capo di tutti i capi', and he won't change until his 'capos' and his under bosses force him to change, and they won't do that until we pull the financial rug from under their feet. We are in a unique position to do it."

Boris Johnson replied: "We are in a position to impose very considerable economic costs on Putin. The question is whether he is going to care enough about it because he is clearly in an illogical and irrational frame of mind."

Elsewhere, Conservative MP Nickie Aiken (Cities of Westminster and London) said the "children of those Russians connected to the Kremlin who may be in schools in this country should be perhaps sent home to Russia and not be allowed to benefit from education within this country".

The Prime Minister replied: "I think when it comes to children, maybe I think I am not quite there. I think that the sins of the fathers or indeed the mothers should not be visited on their children, in my opinion."

It is "inevitable" that there will be more sanctions against Russia, Boris Johnson has said.

The Prime Minister's comments come as Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokeswoman Layla Moran pressed him on what the trigger for further sanctions will be.

She said: "Five banks, three of Putin's cronies but two of which have already been sanctioned by the US. This isn't us working in concert, this is us already behind. I hear what the Prime Minister has said about more sanctions are to come. Can he be clear with us then, what is the trigger?"

Mr Johnson said: "I think it is inevitable that there will be more sanctions to come because I am afraid I think it's inevitable that Vladimir Putin is going to continue with his flagrant violation of international law. What we are doing today is the first barrage that we are orchestrating in concert with our friends and partners, keeping something in reserve because there must still be the possibility that we can avert an hideous outbreak of bloodshed in Ukraine."

Meanwhile, Conservative MP John Howell (Henley), who is the leader of the UK delegation to the Council of Europe, told the Commons he will be calling later today for "the suspension of Russia from the Council of Europe" and asked for the Prime Minister's support.

Mr Johnson replied: "I wholeheartedly support what he just said."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK will go further on sanctions against Russia if it "does not pull back from the brink" in Ukraine.

In a statement, she said: "This first wave of sanctions will hit oligarchs and banks close to the Kremlin. It sends a clear message that the UK will use our economic heft to inflict pain on Russia and degrade their strategic interests.

"And we are prepared to go much further if Russia does not pull back from the brink. We will curtail the ability of the Russian state and Russian companies to raise funds in our markets, prohibit a range of high tech exports, and further isolate Russian banks from the global economy.

"These will be surgically targeted sanctions that will hit Russia hard."

There could be a spike in gas and oil prices as a consequence of "Putin's venture", Boris Johnson has said.

Conservative former minister Robert Halfon told MPs: "Can I just ask my right honourable friend, what assessment have the Government made of the impact from the war on energy prices, of oil prices and the subsequent impact on people, on people at home, and what measures can the Government mitigate those factors, which, as we know, the war is likely to increase the cost of living for ordinary folk across the country?"

Mr Johnson replied: "He is quite right that one of the risks of Putin's venture is that there could be a spike in gas prices, in oil prices...

"The Government will do everything we can to mitigate it and help the people in this country but it's one of the reasons why the whole of Western Europe has got to end their dependence on Russian oil and gas."

Downing Street has rejected suggestions that the sanctions announced by Britain targeting Russian oligarchs and banks would have little effect.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said the measures set out in the House of Commons would have a "real impact" on the Russian economy.

"This only beginning. This is only the first tranche of sanctions we could introduce," the spokesman said.

"The actions we have take together with our Nato allies do create a much more hostile atmosphere for individuals and for banks and will have a real impact on the economic situation in Russia.

"We believe that these are the right measures to introduce now in the light of the actions taken overnight by President (Vladimir) Putin."

Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said "every indication" is that Russia "continues to plan for a full-scale attack" on Ukraine.

But he said "it's never too late to not attack", and urged Russia to "engage in good faith in diplomatic efforts to find a political solution".

Mr Stoltenberg told a press conference in Brussels: "Every indication is that Russia continues to plan for a full scale attack on Ukraine. We see the ongoing military build up... We see that more and more of the forces are moving out of the camps and are in combat formations and ready to strike.

"And we see the ongoing provocations in Donbas and the different false flag operations where they tried to create a pretext for an attack. And then of course we saw last night that further Russian troops moved into Donbas, into parts of Donetsk and Luhansk.

"And then we have the threatening rhetoric, which was actually confirmed in the speech of President Putin yesterday.

"At the same time, it's never too late. It's never too late to not attack. And that's the reason why we continue to call on Russia to step back, to de-escalate, and to engage in good faith in diplomatic efforts to find a political solution."

President Vladimir Putin has called for the "demilitarisation" of Ukraine to end the current crisis.

Speaking at the news conference in Moscow, the Russian leader said the government in Kyiv needed to give up its hopes of joining Nato.

"This would mean that the Western leaders would not lose face," he said, speaking through an interpreter.

Mr Putin re-iterated his concerns that Ukraine could develop nuclear weapons and said "demilitarisation" was the "only objective controlling factor that we could observe and have a proper reaction to".

He added: "Even the appearance of tactical nuclear weaponry in Ukraine, for us this means a strategic threat."

Britain hopes sanctions will prevent further aggression and persuade Russian troops to withdraw and move away from the Ukrainian border, amid concerns the measures do not offer enough of a deterrence.

Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith, speaking as MPs considered the legislation that enabled the UK Government to introduce tougher sanctions, told the Commons: "The question I want to understand more clearly is are we deterring President (Vladimir) Putin from doing more or is the idea to get President Putin to step back?

"Because I'm not all together clear and therefore that means the force of the sanctions is dictated by what we're trying to do."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly replied: "Our aim is to prevent further aggression, for Russian troops to withdraw from where they have advanced and for them to move away from the Ukrainian border and remove that threat from the Ukrainian people."

Tom Tugendhat, Conservative chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, added: "The ratchet could be misinterpreted as giving a free pass at an early stage rather than drawing a clear line that needs not to be crossed."

Mr Cleverly, in his reply, said: "The pace at which we, in conjunction with our international partners, ratchet up our sanctions response is very much to not just send a message, although sending a message is important, but to actually ensure that these sanctions are meaningfully felt by the Russian leadership and those people around Vladimir Putin funding him and propping him up."

Downing Street said Boris Johnson had spoken to French President Emmanuel Macron about the "chilling developments in Ukraine last night".

In a call on Tuesday afternoon, a No 10 spokesman said: "The Prime Minister updated President Macron on the new sanctions he unveiled against Russia today, and the leaders agreed they needed to continue to work in lockstep to target Russian individuals and entities bankrolling President (Vladimir) Putin's aggressive approach.

"The Prime Minister said that President Putin's actions were a gross violation of international law, and by sending forces into eastern Ukraine he had ripped up the Budapest and Minsk agreements.

"Russia's actions don't just threaten Ukraine's sovereignty, but are a blatant attack on freedom and democracy, the leaders agreed.

"The pair reiterated that together, the UK and France were working to reinforce Europe's borders and defend European security against increasing Russian aggression.

"Both agreed to stay in close contact and speak again in the coming days."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said: "The UK Government's actions are not limited to what the Prime Minister has currently announced."

He added: "We are going to bring forward further legislation to further extend the measures available to us."

He said: "We intend to escalate these sanctions, to ratchet up these sanctions, in response to what has already happened in order to deter further aggression and in order to stimulate (Vladimir) Putin to withdraw the troops from Ukraine."

He said the changes would allow the Government "to impose sanctions on a much broader range of individuals and businesses who are or have been involved in... obtaining a benefit from, or supporting, the government of Russia" and would allow sanctions on a "huge scope of individuals and entities", adding: "Should Russian stage any further invasion into Ukraine, we will not hesitate to implement comprehensive and unprecedented additional packages of sanctions in close coordination with our allies around the world."

He added: "These measures will curtail the ability of the Russian state, Russian companies, Russian individuals, to raise funds on our markets and further isolate Russian banks. We will keep ratcheting up the pressure targeting more banks, more individuals, more companies, that are significant to the Kremlin."

He added: "Vladimir Putin has chosen a path of international isolation. The measures that my right honourable friend the Prime Minister announced today demonstrate that they will bare a cost for doing so, and if they do not step back these measures will only increase."

European Union countries have agreed unanimously to adopt a package of sanctions against Russia, the EU's foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell has said.

In a press conference, Mr Borrell said it was a "particularly dangerous moment for Europe" and Russia's actions were a "clear escalation of the Russian aggression against Ukraine".

Mr Borrell said that 351 members of the Russian State Duma who "voted (for) this violation of international law" would be sanctioned, as well as "27 individuals and entities who are playing a role in undermining or threatening Ukrainian territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence".

These included "banks that are financing Russia" and "those who waged this information war against Ukraine". He added the bloc would also "target the ability of the Russian state and government to access to our capital and financial markets and services".

He said: "We reached an agreement between the 27 member states - a unanimous agreement to adopt a package of sanctions."

He added that the package would "hurt Russia, and it will hurt a lot".

Oligarchs close to President Vladimir Putin will find it "too easy" to avoid the impact of sanctions, Labour has said.

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy told MPs his party has "major concerns" and suggestions on how the Government could "go further" on sanctions against Russia.

He said: "Firstly, concerns have been expressed to us that in the way that legislation is currently drafted, oligarchs who are close to Putin will find it too easy to avoid the impact of the measures. They may not hold a formal role in a sanctioned bank or company, but may exert significant control behind the scenes.

"The effects of this would be that some of the most influential and notorious oligarchs, oligarchs who are close to Vladimir Putin, and have purposely structured their enterprises to avoid the appearance of majority ownership and control would go untouched."

Mr Lammy insisted this is a "crucial mistake" as President Putin "couldn't care about sanctions laid against his country or the Russian people", instead, "the only sanctions he really cares about are those against the richest people close to him".

The shadow foreign secretary added: "We believe that we must go further now. Only five banks and three individuals are facing sanctions as a result of UK government's actions today. This is not big enough punishment for the blatant breach of international law that has already been made. And let us not be too slow to act and fall behind our international partners."

The first deputy chairman of the Russian State Duma's committee on international affairs said sanctions imposed on Tuesday by Boris Johnson in light of the Ukraine crisis would have "zero" effect.

Vyacheslav Nikonov told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: "What would be the result of sanctions like they're introduced today by Boris Johnson? Zero, it's nothing. It's sanctioned about three oligarchs and five... small banks. You know, this is a laughable affair, of course.

"We expected something more serious, like switching from... Swift, or cancelling the (buyers) of gas and so on."

The Conservative chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee pressed the Government on why they did not go further on sanctions against Russia.

Tom Tugendhat said: "I welcome the direction that we've taken, but I find myself, I'm afraid along with many others on all sides of this House, asking why not more? Why not further?

"Because what we're doing now is we are in many ways using the actions of a hostile state in eastern Ukraine to justify something that we should have done years ago. The UK sadly has for too long been an avenue for money laundering, for despots and criminals around the world. For too long, we have seen our institutions, our City, our service sector, used to hide the games of corrupt practices abroad and indeed sadly on too many occasions of criminality."

He added: "What he (President Putin) is doing to us, to the people of these islands, is he is unpicking the values and principles that our grandparents fought for 80 years ago. He is unpicking the principle that we embedded into the Constitution of the United Nations, of the Council of Europe. He is unpicking the principle of the rule of law that the debate amongst sovereign peoples should be the way that disputes are settled in this world, and he is replacing the rule of law for the rule of force.

"Sadly, he's demonstrating that not only does it work on the ground, but it also works in the wallet. He's demonstrating that a leader can profit politically and personally from the abuses that he conducts against his own people and his neighbours."

Conservative former party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith said: "We can do, we should do and we must do more to root out the dirty money that flows through here."

He added: "I really do believe the Government has to take this many notches further and hit them very hard. Yes, with the cleaning out of some of the Augean stables in the financial services area, but secondly also we need to go on grander, more supra national sanctions, working with our allies, absolutely to cut off supplies of money, such that the Russians cannot and President Putin cannot find a way through this and they feel the pain. We must hear them squeal when we hit them with these sanctions."

Sir Iain warned: "We must move, we must move hard, we must move now and we must make them squeal, if we do not do that then we will have failed."

SNP's foreign affairs spokesman Alyn Smith said: "It's weak tea, it's not nothing, but it's not much."

He added: "This is really small beer and I cannot understand it, the UK seems to be casting about for somebody else's leadership because I really don't detect much in the actions and announcements that we've heard today."

Labour's Chris Bryant (Rhondda) said: "We've been pitiful, we've been puny, we've vacillated, we've been spineless and quite often we've looked as if we're craven because we just want Russian money."

He added: "I am angered by the naivety that I sometimes see in this country, I've seen it often in this chamber and I see it too from the Left."

He went on: "Of course I support the statutory instrument, I'm glad we're doing this, but today's sanctions the ones that have been announced today which rely on this, are wholly inadequate."

Conservative former cabinet minister Robert Jenrick said the UK should be taking action "hard now", explaining: "That is what a dictator like (Vladimir) Putin can understand.

"Deterrence by way of sanctions thus far has failed. It's probably likely to fail. It does have value, however, it does show resolve, it does inflict cost on Russia and if we're going to do that why wouldn't we do it strong now?

"I don't understand why we would be suggesting that we would be bringing forward the other measures that I know the Government is considering only in the event that Russia makes further incursions into Ukraine or further serious egregious assaults upon Ukraine or other allies within the region."

Mr Jenrick said he could see Foreign Office minister James Cleverly shaking his head at this suggestion, adding he could understand it if the Government needs further time to develop harsher measures or wants to introduce them at the same time as their allies.

He also told the Commons: "My suggestion to the Government would be to bring forward further measures as quickly as possible, preferably in concert with our allies."

Bob Seely, Conservative MP for Isle of Wight, said "it's quite clear that deterrence has failed" before adding: "I make criticism of policy over the past 10, 15 years, this is too little, too late."

Conservative MP and a former United Nations commander who led peacekeeping forces in Bosnia, Bob Stewart (Beckenham), said: "Mr (Vladimir) Putin may well have won. He may well have won because we've not reacted hard enough.

"Small banks sanctioned, but actually not real sanctions. So he'll be sitting there tonight in Moscow thinking 'I've just got to sit this one out and the gains we've got I will be able to play up extremely well to the Russian people'. We are really in dangerous ground by our weakness."

Conservative MP Jonathan Djanogly (Huntingdon) said thousands of Russians live in the UK, and many are not supportive of President Putin's regime and "many Russians here are here to escape the clutches of Putin's regime".

He said: "For those Russians here I would urge caution and due process in the way that they are treated, because just throwing them all in prison, for instance, as the UK did with all German residents in the beginning of World War Two, is not going to work, or indeed enhance our own democratic reputation.

"On the other hand, there does come a tipping point towards war when individual interests are to some degree going to be affected or subsumed by just being a citizen of the country concerned.

"It seems that these regulations are effectively preparing the ground for this to happen. I support these proposals, and feel that ultimately in the circumstances presented they are appropriate."

Liberal Democrat Layla Moran said: "While so far we may have talked the talk, I'm afraid to say today's list of sanctions were gruel. I don't think that they've done anything. I don't even think there is a line in the sand there."

The MP for Oxford West and Abingdon told the Commons she welcomed the sanctions but she wants the Government "to do so much more than it's done today".

She spoke of the need to tackle "Putin's cronies" and also used her parliamentary privilege to name 35 people she said were on a list of "key enablers" compiled by Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny and his team over a year ago.

US President Joe Biden has announced his own sanctions against Russia.

In a statement from the White House, Mr Biden said the measures were only the "first tranche" and he would "escalate sanctions if Russia escalates".

He said: "We're implementing full blocking sanctions on two large Russian financial institutions, VEB and their military bank.

"We're implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russian sovereign debt. That means we've cut off Russia's government from Western financing, it can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either."

He said: "Starting tomorrow and continuing in the days ahead we will also impose sanctions on Russia's elites and their family members. They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share in the pain as well."

Mr Biden said the US had worked with Germany in the halting of Nordstream 2, and he added: "As Russia contemplates its next move, we have our next move prepared as well. Russia will pay an even steeper price if it continues its aggression, including additional sanctions."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said sanctions will be ratcheted up because of "what has already happened" and not just in response to "what might happen in the future".

Speaking in the Commons, Mr Cleverly told MPs: "I can confidently inform the House that they are demanding of the Government something which the Government is absolutely determined to do. You are pushing at an open door."

The Foreign Office minister added: "The question that was asked is, 'are these sanctions only going to be escalated in response to further aggression?'

"I can assure this House that these sanctions will be ratcheted up because of what has already happened, not just in response to what might happen in the future. Our intention, as I say, is to prevent even further invasion of Ukraine, to have those troops that are currently in Ukraine removed and then have them returned to their own barracks once they are back in Russia."

US President Joe Biden said the US would also continue to provide "defensive assistance" to Ukraine, and he had authorised the movement of US forces to other Baltic states.

He told a press briefing: "In response to Russia's admission that it will not withdraw its forces from Belarus, I have authorised additional movements of US forces and equipment already stationed in Europe to strengthen our Baltic allies - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.

"Let me be clear, these are totally defensive moves on our part. We have no intention of fighting Russia.

"We want to send an unmistakable message though, that the United States together with our allies will defend every inch of Nato territory and abide by the commitments we made into Nato."

Joe Biden said he expected the Kremlin to start a war and that "none of us should be fooled".

The US President told reporters: "We still believe that Russia is poised to go much further in launching a massive military attack against Ukraine."

He said: "There are still well over 150,000 Russian troops surrounding Ukraine, and as I said, Russian forces remain positioned to Belarus to attack Ukraine from the north, including warplanes and offensive missile systems.

"Russia's moved troops closer to Ukraine's border with Russia.

"Russia's naval vessels are manoeuvring in the Black Sea to Ukraine's south including amphibious assault ships, missile cruisers, and submarines.

"Russia has moved supplies of blood and medical equipment into position on their border. You don't need blood unless you plan on starting a war."

(Corrected repetition, amends incorrect word in par four)

President Joe Biden has said the world has heard "the full extent of Vladimir Putin's twisted rewrite of history" but added the US is still "open to diplomacy".

Speaking at a White House briefing on the Ukraine crisis, said he had been in "constant contact" with European leaders on how to respond "in unison" to any threat from Russia.

"Yesterday the world heard clearly the full extent of Vladimir Putin's twisted rewrite of history," he said.

"Nothing in Putin's remarks indicate any interest in pursuing real dialogue in European security in the year 2022. He directly attacked Ukraine's right to exist."

However, Mr Biden added that there was still a chance to "avert the worst-case scenario" which would "bring untold suffering to millions of people".

"The United States and our allies remain open to diplomacy, if it is serious," Mr Biden said. "But when all is said and done, we're going to judge Russia by its actions, not its words, and whatever Russia does next we're ready to respond with unity, clarity and conviction."

Speaking in Parliament, former Nato secretary-general Lord Robertson of Port Ellen said he backed the Government and "the resolution of the West against this unprovoked attack on an individual nation state".

He said: "It is outrageous and we are at a very dangerous point in European history."

The Labour former defence secretary told the House of Lords: "Can I suggest to the Government that we need to do much more to answer some of the disinformation now being put out by the Russians? For example, President (Vladimir) Putin tries to pretend that he has had nothing to do with agreements regarding the sovereignty of Ukraine.

"But in 2002 Vladimir Putin signed the Rome Declaration... which said the participating states respect sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all states and their inherent right to choose the means to ensure their own security and the inviolability of borders.

"That was signed up to by Vladimir Putin 20 years ago and now he seems to pretend that Ukraine does not exist.

"Surely we need to do much more to counter some of the lies coming out. Because the battle of narratives is going to matter just as much as the battle of the military on the ground."

Tory former solicitor general and QC Lord Garnier said the imposition of sanctions by the UK against three billionaire allies of Vladimir Putin and five Russian banks over Ukraine "really isn't enough".

Speaking in the Lords, Conservative peer: "Kleptocrats like drug dealers really do not like having their money, their ill-gotten gains, removed from them.

"We have sanctioned three individuals and five banks, that really isn't enough.

"President Putin has vast sums squirreled away in the West, held by nominees. The Government must know who these nominees are and may I suggest that the Government speedily sanctions all those whom it knows to be doing President Putin's work."

Responding, Tory Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said: "The sanctions announced today are only the first tranche and we will step sanctions if Russian aggression continues."

Former head of the Foreign Office and Diplomatic Service Lord McDonald of Salford said, to be effective, sanctions imposed on Moscow "have to be international and coordinated".

He told the upper chamber: "This needs to be an international effort which usually would be coordinated through the United Nations. The security council clearly is not available as the Russians have a veto.

"In what international forum will the Government coordinate the necessary sanctions effort?"

Tory Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said the Government had been working with allies through Nato, the UN and G7 as well as having bilateral meetings.

"We are working internationally and we are coordinating our response with our allies and partners," she said.

Former Navy chief Lord West of Spithead has said the UK and US should be preparing to make Vladimir Putin's "eyes water" over Ukraine, arguing the allies had superior cyber capability in the GCHQ and the National Security Agency.

The Labour peer, a member of Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee, said: "We can run rings around the Russians if we really want to. We should be getting ready to do that... to really make his eyes water so he knows what he's done."

He told the Lords: "We mustn't delude ourselves, Russia has invaded Ukraine."

Referring to the Russian leader, Lord West said: "He's made a calculation the pain isn't that much and I have to say at the moment I would rather agree with him. He's not getting that much pain.

He added: "Since 2010 we have reduced our military by a third. That has not gone unnoticed."

Independent crossbench peer Lord Skidelsky, who until last month was a director of oil refining firm Russneft, said the lack of understanding of Russia's position was "absolutely appalling".

He told the Lords: "Will the Government urgently and imaginatively search for a diplomatic agreement on the Ukraine problem?

"The lack of imagination and lack of understanding of Russia's position is absolutely appalling in my view and very depressing.

"The atmosphere of the House reminds me very, very much of 2003 prior to the invasion of Iraq."

But disagreeing, Conservative Lords leader Baroness Evans of Bowes Park said: "Russia has been falsely accusing Russia of provocation and nothing could be further from the truth.

"Nato has always been a defensive alliance and poses no threat to Russia.

"Nato allies remain committed to a dual track approach, strong deterrents and defence combined with meaningful dialogue, but Russia has to stop its aggression towards Ukraine."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Britain will "use every lever at our disposal to stop (Vladimir Putin) in his tracks".

Writing in The Times, Ms Truss said: "Time after time, we and our allies have said that any further invasion would have severe consequences. Now Russia has chosen to abandon diplomacy, we have a moral duty to stand with Ukraine and demonstrate that we mean what we say.

"We have put in place our toughest sanctions regime against Russia. Nothing is off the table."

Ms Truss said she had held a call with G7 allies to "agree the next package".

"We are looking at sanctioning members of the Russian Duma and Federation Council. And we will extend the territorial sanctions imposed on Crimea to the separatist-controlled territories in the Donbas," she said.

"We have a long list of those complicit in the actions of the Russian leadership. Should Russia refuse to pull back its troops we can keep turning up the heat, targeting more banks, elites and companies of significance."

She added: "In time, even those close to President Putin will come to see his decisions this week as a self-inflicted wound."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220222ei2m000jh


News, Analysis and Notes; News & Analysis
Escalating military conflict in Ukraine spikes European gas prices
Neil Hunter, Kira Savcenko, Nikolaos Aidinis Antonopoulos, Shivani Pandya
1029 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日
Platts European Power Daily
EURODLY
ISSN: 1556-3243, 24, Issue 39
英文
© 2022 S&P Global
* Explosions were heard, several incursions around the country

* Contracts to April 2023 jump nearly 70 p/th in early trade

* Flows through Ukraine strengthen on the day; Yamal still unused

A major escalation in military conflict within the territory of Ukraine spiked wholesale natural gas prices for delivery into Europe, as market participants drastically reassessed their valuation of risk on futures contracts.

Following widespread reports Feb. 24 of explosions around the country and military incursions from forces formerly stationed on Ukraine's Russian and Belarusian borders, natural gas prices jumped in early trade despite a strengthening in physical gas transit through Ukraine.

The S&P Global Platts intraday assessment for British NBP within-day delivery rose by 70 pence/therm from the previous Market on Close assessment to 280 p/th, while the day-ahead contract was assessed at 275.65 p/th after increasing by 66.65 p/th in the same limited timeframe.

With a largely unchanged fundamental picture compared with recent weeks, it was a surge in forward-curve contracts which underpinned this movement on the spot. According to data from Intercontinental Exchange, the March NBP contract was changing hands at 276.65 p/th at the time of Platts' intraday assessment, constituting an increase of 61.65 p/th compared to the Feb. 23 Market on Close assessment. The contract had previously peaked at 285.975 p/th at 1030 GMT.

After many weeks of similar price movements on the front two seasons compared with the front month, early Summer 2022 and Winter 2022 moves Feb. 24 were no exception. These contracts peaked at 286.50 p/th and 290 p/th in the early exchanges, after respective increases of 70.50 p/th and 64 p/th from their own Feb. 23 Platts assessments, with hubs across the European mainland reflecting similar sentiment.

While many market participants had anticipated a complete curtailment in gas supply through Ukraine, Russian exports to Slovakia's Velke Kapusany entry point increased to 58.7 million cubic meters/day, according to data from the Slovakian network operator Eustream, a near-three-week high.

As a viable alternative to transport through Ukraine for Russian exports to Italy, deliveries through the Yamal transit into Germany remained absent, and the pipeline itself remained in reverse-flow mode, data from the German Gascade network showed. No entry flows into Germany have been metered on this route since late December.

Market response

While geopolitical tension between Russia and Ukraine has been rising in recent weeks, both the development of the situation on the ground and the market's reaction to it came as a shock to market participants.

"I've never experienced something quite like it in my times in the market," a UK gas trader said. "It is completely driven by geopolitics and uncertainty, and the fear sentiment I guess."

"It just seems unfathomable that turning off the taps is going to be a sanction or Russian retaliation: it is not in anyone's interest. That would be the one thing that would justify prices going to the moon."

"I'm surprised we haven't seen a steady uptick like the past few days, like oil has done," he added.

"People are concerned if [potential] sanctions might involve gas, or if Russia stops delivery,” said a Germany-based gas trader, echoing sentiment from other gas traders that Platts surveyed. When asked about the probability of either of these events happening, the traders stated: "Fifty-fifty, more chance for sanctions."

"We are at the end of winter — enough time to find a solution for next winter," they concluded.

"I completely misread this situation," a second German gas trader said. "I just didn't buy arguments [for war], because they made no rational sense. 'Putin is unpredictable and wants war' isn't a good argument in my book."

"I guess the prices expressed that [no one expected a war]. We would have been much higher had the market consensus been different," the trader added.

Market participants were further taken aback on the influence curve pricing had on European spot gas markets, especially since the market moves were well beyond technical-price triggers for supply and demand.

"I've got to be honest ... I don't actually understand why it has impacted the spot price in the way it has ... we are still receiving the same amount of gas we were expecting to receive yesterday," a second UK gas trader said. "That is, unless, it's based on the risk that Russia may turn off the gas between now and tomorrow?"

When asked why Ukraine was continuing to transport Russian gas, the first UK trader said., "it's in everyone's interests to see gas flowing, and I'm not sure the West would be happy [if it had been stopped]. If Russia does complete their takeover, then we'll probably end up seeing more gas flowing through the route anyway," he added.

"Nord Stream 2 should replace Yamal and Ukrainian transit," a Dutch gas trader said. "If Ukraine is going to [be] part of Russia, then one doesn't need Nord Stream 2."

"It makes sense [that Velke is up]," the second German trader said. "If you disregard the situation and just look at prices. We're way above month-ahead indexed levels, so ... more demand from customers at these prices."

"Nothing has changed fundamentally, so it's just a repricing of risk," the trader said of the session's gains, adding that he did not know where these increases could end.

When asked about the lack of Yamal transit, the first UK trader said, "my belief was they're just supplying the contractual nominations as required. I would expect overall flows to step up as we're trading above the Q1 average price and [the] month-ahead average price on the prompt."

"Although it's tricky to understand the rationale for anything at the moment ... these are crazy times," he added.

Neil Hunter, Kira Savcenko, Nikolaos Aidinis Antonopoulos, Shivani Pandya

S&P Global

文件 EURODLY020220310ei2o0000v


News & Analysis
Escalating military conflict in Ukraine spikes European gas prices
Neil Hunter, Kira Savcenko, Nikolaos Aidinis Antonopoulos, Shivani Pandya
1025 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日
Platts European Gas Daily
EUROGAS
27, Issue 39
英文
© 2022 S&P Global
* Explosions were heard, several incursions around the country

* Contracts to April 2023 jump nearly 70 p/th in early trade

* Flows through Ukraine strengthen on the day; Yamal still unused

A major escalation in military conflict within the territory of Ukraine spiked wholesale natural gas prices for delivery into Europe, as market participants drastically reassessed their valuation of risk on futures contracts.

Following widespread reports Feb. 24 of explosions around the country and military incursions from forces formerly stationed on Ukraine's Russian and Belarusian borders, natural gas prices jumped in early trade despite a strengthening in physical gas transit through Ukraine.

The S&P Global Platts intraday assessment for British NBP within-day delivery rose by 70 pence/therm from the previous Market on Close assessment to 280 p/th, while the day-ahead contract was assessed at 275.65 p/th after increasing by 66.65 p/th in the same limited timeframe.

With a largely unchanged fundamental picture compared with recent weeks, it was a surge in forward-curve contracts which underpinned this movement on the spot. According to data from Intercontinental Exchange, the March NBP contract was changing hands at 276.65 p/th at the time of Platts' intraday assessment, constituting an increase of 61.65 p/th compared to the Feb. 23 Market on Close assessment. The contract had previously peaked at 285.975 p/th at 1030 GMT.

After many weeks of similar price movements on the front two seasons compared with the front month, early Summer 2022 and Winter 2022 moves Feb. 24 were no exception. These contracts peaked at 286.50 p/th and 290 p/th in the early exchanges, after respective increases of 70.50 p/th and 64 p/th from their own Feb. 23 Platts assessments, with hubs across the European mainland reflecting similar sentiment.

While many market participants had anticipated a complete curtailment in gas supply through Ukraine, Russian exports to Slovakia's Velke Kapusany entry point increased to 58.7 million cubic meters/day, according to data from the Slovakian network operator Eustream, a near-three-week high.

As a viable alternative to transport through Ukraine for Russian exports to Italy, deliveries through the Yamal transit into Germany remained absent, and the pipeline itself remained in reverse-flow mode, data from the German Gascade network showed. No entry flows into Germany have been metered on this route since late December.

Market response

While geopolitical tension between Russia and Ukraine has been rising in recent weeks, both the development of the situation on the ground and the market's reaction to it came as a shock to market participants.

"I've never experienced something quite like it in my times in the market," a UK gas trader said. "It is completely driven by geopolitics and uncertainty, and the fear sentiment I guess."

"It just seems unfathomable that turning off the taps is going to be a sanction or Russian retaliation: it is not in anyone's interest. That would be the one thing that would justify prices going to the moon."

"I'm surprised we haven't seen a steady uptick like the past few days, like oil has done," he added.

"People are concerned if [potential] sanctions might involve gas, or if Russia stops delivery,” said a Germany-based gas trader, echoing sentiment from other gas traders that Platts surveyed. When asked about the probability of either of these events happening, the traders stated: "Fifty-fifty, more chance for sanctions."

"We are at the end of winter — enough time to find a solution for next winter," they concluded.

"I completely misread this situation," a second German gas trader said. "I just didn't buy arguments [for war], because they made no rational sense. 'Putin is unpredictable and wants war' isn't a good argument in my book."

"I guess the prices expressed that [no one expected a war]. We would have been much higher had the market consensus been different," the trader added.

Market participants were further taken aback on the influence curve pricing had on European spot gas markets, especially since the market moves were well beyond technical-price triggers for supply and demand.

"I've got to be honest ... I don't actually understand why it has impacted the spot price in the way it has ... we are still receiving the same amount of gas we were expecting to receive yesterday," a second UK gas trader said. "That is, unless, it's based on the risk that Russia may turn off the gas between now and tomorrow?"

When asked why Ukraine was continuing to transport Russian gas, the first UK trader said., "it's in everyone's interests to see gas flowing, and I'm not sure the West would be happy [if it had been stopped]. If Russia does complete their takeover, then we'll probably end up seeing more gas flowing through the route anyway," he added.

"Nord Stream 2 should replace Yamal and Ukrainian transit," a Dutch gas trader said. "If Ukraine is going to [be] part of Russia, then one doesn't need Nord Stream 2."

"It makes sense [that Velke is up]," the second German trader said. "If you disregard the situation and just look at prices. We're way above month-ahead indexed levels, so ... more demand from customers at these prices."

"Nothing has changed fundamentally, so it's just a repricing of risk," the trader said of the session's gains, adding that he did not know where these increases could end.

When asked about the lack of Yamal transit, the first UK trader said, "my belief was they're just supplying the contractual nominations as required. I would expect overall flows to step up as we're trading above the Q1 average price and [the] month-ahead average price on the prompt."

"Although it's tricky to understand the rationale for anything at the moment ... these are crazy times," he added.

Neil Hunter, Kira Savcenko, Nikolaos Aidinis Antonopoulos, Shivani Pandya

S&P Global

文件 EUROGAS020220324ei2o0000u


The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have...
7945 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 21:33 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.

A statement from the MoD said: "Russian forces have highly likely captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Workers have reportedly been detained by Russian troops."

In an intelligence update just after 1am, the MoD also said it is "unlikely" Russia achieved its planned objectives for the first day of its military action in Ukraine.

"The Ukrainian Armed Forces have reportedly halted Russia's advance towards Chernihiv," the MoD statement said.

"Fighting probably continues on the outskirts of the city.

"It is unlikely that Russia has achieved its planned Day 1 military objectives. Ukrainian forces have presented fierce resistance across all axes of Russia's advance."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine marks the "beginning of a new era" as she outlined a package of further sanctions on Russia.

Ms von der Leyen said on Twitter: "First, this package includes financial sanctions, targeting 70% of the Russian banking market and key state owned companies, including in defence.

"Second, we target the energy sector, a key economic area which especially benefits the Russian state. Our export ban will hit the oil sector by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.

"Third: we ban the sale of aircrafts and equipment to Russian airlines.

"Fourth, we are limiting Russia's access to crucial technology, such as semiconductors or cutting-edge software.

"Finally: visas. Diplomats and related groups and business people will no longer have privileged access to the European Union.

"These events mark the beginning of a new era. Putin is trying to subjugate a friendly European country. He is trying to redraw the map of Europe by force. He must and he will fail."

The Ukrainian foreign minister has said "horrific rocket strikes" have hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

"Last time our capital experienced anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany," he tweeted.

"Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Severe all ties. Kick Russia out of (everywhere)."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Twitter the UK has been "true to our word" that Russia's invasion would result in the "toughest sanctions we have ever imposed".

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russia's assault on Ukraine is "barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life".

She tweeted: "Solidarity with (Ukrainian foreign minister) @DmytroKuleba and the Ukrainian people.

"Putin's assault on Ukraine is barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life. We will continue to hold Putin to account and remain steadfast in our support. £StandwithUkraine".

Mr Kuleba said in a tweet just before 4am on Friday that "horrific rocket strikes" hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions imposed on Russia "is a show of strength" from other nations.

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme the package of sanctions are "robust, massive and unprecedented".

He said: "I think equally important is the message that we are sending out. The first one is solidarity with Ukrainian people and Ukrainian leaders, who are suffering right now.

"The second one is condemnation, clear condemnation of the action of Russia and its leader.

"Thirdly, that unity of the West, unity of those that share the same values, not only inside the European Union, but with the United Kingdom, with the US, with Canada, with Japan, Australia and beyond.

"This is a show of strength on our side."

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions on Russia will have a "huge impact".

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme they will "touch the heart" of the country's economy.

He added: "The measures we are taking today will have a huge impact on Russia, it impacts 70% of the banking system.

"It touched the heart of the state-owned companies that financed the war effort."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said it is believed Russia intends to invade the whole of Ukraine.

Asked if it is his view the Russians are intent on taking Kyiv and removing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky from power, he told Sky News: "It's definitely our view that the Russians intend to invade the whole of Ukraine."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would expect Russian President Vladimir Putin to be "held to account" if he committed a war crime.

He told Sky News: "If President Putin commits a war crime, then, just as I do if I were to commit a war crime, I should expect to be held to account."

Asked if Mr Putin's actions already constituted a war crime, he said: "I'm not, I'm afraid, an international lawyer.

"I couldn't tell you the difference between breaking international law insofar as directing your forces to invade another country, versus a war crime - eg. things like genocide, and indeed, you know, torture, etc.

"I wouldn't want to speculate the differences. What I would say is he's clearly broken international law, he's occupying or trying to occupy a sovereign country who made one mistake in his eyes. Their mistake in his eyes was not to choose the Kremlin as a way for their future. And that's all they have done."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said "it doesn't matter how much effort we made" to prevent an invasion of Ukraine because Vladimir Putin "has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year".

He told Sky News: "I wrote an article in January that President Putin was beyond this type of persuasion. President Putin, I said and got criticised at the time, there was a whiff of Munich about President Putin.

"It wasn't the bit about appeasement I was referring to, I was referring that in ... Munich in 1938 Adolf Hitler all along had a plan to invade parts of Europe and all the diplomacy was about a straw man sort of attempt by him to buy time.

"Putin has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year, and I think that's why, you know, it doesn't matter how much effort we made - and we all made unbelievable amounts of effort, we saw President Macron go, my Prime Minister regularly spoke to Putin - didn't matter.

"As we're seeing today, it's not about the Donbas, it's not about a minority, it is about a greed to subsume Ukraine into the Russian Federation, or indeed for President Putin to land-grab."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia had "failed to deliver" on its "day one" objectives.

He told Sky News: "Our assessment as of this morning is that Russia has not taken any of its major objectives, in fact it is behind its hoped-for timetable.

"They've lost over 450 personnel. One of the significant airports they were trying to capture with their elite Spetsnaz has failed to be taken. In fact, the Ukrainians have taken it back.

"So, I think contrary to great Russian claims and indeed President Putin's sort of vision that somehow the Ukrainians would be liberated and would be flocking to his cause - he's got that completely wrong. The Russian army has failed to deliver on day one its main objective."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin's legacy will be "isolation", adding that "diplomacy is absolutely off the table" at this stage.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I think President Putin is slowly but surely building a wall around himself. He will be isolated.

"I think, you know, his legacy is not what he hopes it will be. I think his legacy will be isolation."

He added: "I think at the moment diplomacy is absolutely off the table. We tried. I went to Moscow, Liz Truss went to Moscow, (the) Prime Minister spoke regularly to President Putin and met him on a number of occasions, as did practically every president of, or prime minister of, senior countries in the West.

"So, you know, I'm not sure what more diplomacy would achieve at this very moment in time."

He added: "I think it's important to have a diplomatic link, it's important for us to give messages to the Kremlin direct."

Boris Johnson committed to providing further support to Ukraine after receiving an update from president Volodymyr Zelensky on the "terrible developments" in Kyiv.

A Downing Street statement said: "The Prime Minister spoke to President Zelensky this morning to express his solidarity with Ukraine.

"President Zelensky updated the Prime Minister on the most recent Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes on Ukrainian cities and the terrible developments in Kyiv in the early hours of this morning.

"The Prime Minister assured President Zelensky that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing. He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia's campaign of violence, and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.

"The Prime Minister committed to provide further UK support to Ukraine in the coming days as the people of Ukraine and the world continue to demonstrate that Putin cannot act with impunity."

President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukraine demands "effective counteraction" from allies against Russia including further sanctions after talking with Boris Johnson.

The Ukrainian leader tweeted: "Held talks with PM @BorisJohnson. Reported on the course of (Ukraine's) defence and insidious attacks on Kyiv by the aggressor. Today (Ukraine) needs the support of partners more than ever.

"We demand effective counteraction to the Russian Federation. Sanctions must be further strengthened."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said British troops will not be sent to fight "directly" with the Russians.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I said very clearly about a month ago that we are not going to be sending British troops to fight directly with Russian troops.

"We are going to hold the line in Nato. We've always supported Ukraine's application to Nato over the last 15 years, not every country has wanted them to join.

"We've done the next best thing, which is train over 20,000 Ukrainians, provided them with lethal capabilities, which they are using right now.

"But I'm not putting British troops directly to fight Russian troops. That would trigger a European war, because we are a Nato country, and Russia would therefore be attacking Nato."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said he believes "further financial restrictions" against Russia are needed.

Speaking on Good Morning Britain, Sir Keir said he supported the Government's package of sanctions announced on Thursday but called for extra measures.

He said the UK should "break open" shell companies in Britain providing support to Vladimir Putin and target Russia via Swift, an international financial system.

Reacting to news that Russian troops were nearing Kyiv, Sir Keir said the situation was "extremely serious" and Britain should be "absolutely clear" in its stance.

"We have to stand together with our allies, particularly Nato, and it's very important we must stand together as one United Kingdom, and therefore yesterday was significant in Parliament because all political parties spoke with one voice in our support for Ukraine and our support for Nato.

"In relation to the sanctions, I thought what the Government put forward earlier this week was not strong enough. They came forward yesterday with a stronger package and I was able to say that we, the opposition, will support those further sanctions.

"I do want to go further. I think that we do need further financial restrictions, particularly the Swift mechanism. I also think we've got to break open the shell companies we have here in the UK that are providing financial support for Putin."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said political parties across Parliament will "not be divided" in the response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking on ITV's Good Morning Britain, he said Vladimir Putin had "calculated the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs" and said MPs must stand together against him.

"Putin wants to see division among our allies, among our Nato members, and among political parties back here in the United Kingdom, and we are not going to be divided," he said.

But he added that there needs to be a "change" in the way Mr Putin is handled.

"The combined package in response to this, financial measures, sanctions, etc, must not only isolate Russia but must be capable of crippling its ability to function."

"He added: "We are talking about Russia invading a European country here. It's as serious as it gets. We must have an absolutely full response."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian President Vladimir Putin "won't stop" after invading Ukraine.

He said the decision not to "put British service personnel in direct fighting" was not about "risk", but to avoid triggering a "war across Europe".

"It's not about risk, as much as I care for my personnel. It's not about risk," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"It's about if we were to directly attack Russian aircraft, we would have a war across Europe."

He added: "I have said continually for a long time, as has Britain, and the Prime Minister has supported this position, that Putin is not rational.

"He is trying to invade Ukraine. He won't stop after he's ... with Ukraine. He will use everything in the Baltic states. He doesn't believe the Baltic states are really countries.

"And we will have to stand up to it. Now, I cannot trigger a European war and I won't trigger a European war. But what I will do is help Ukraine fight every street with every piece of equipment we can get to them, and we will support them, and that is the reality."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about Nato and the party itself has "never wavered" in its support for the alliance.

Asked on Sky News about the former Labour leader's stance on stopping the expansion of Nato, Sir Keir said: "Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about that but the Labour Party's policy never shifted under his leadership and I've been very clear."

Sir Keir added that the "collective failure of the West" in the past response to Vladimir Putin may have emboldened the Russian president but described the party's support for Nato as "unshakeable".

He said: "I do think that the failure, the collective failure, of you know, the West... in relation to action he's taken in the past, so many examples - Georgia, Crimea, Donbas - have given him the sense that as I say the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs.

"We have to be clear that that isn't the case here in relation to Ukraine and that that response package from the rest of the world will be so strong that it will not only isolate Russia but also cripple its ability to function."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain has been asked to provide more support to defend Ukrainian airspace.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "So first of all, anti-air is being supplied to the Ukrainians, and has been.

"A number of the Baltic states, the United States provided Stinger missiles, which has brought down clearly a number of Russian aircraft.

"The ability to defend their airspace from (the) ground has been enabled. And (of) course, there is more to do and... we've been asked and a number of other nations for that.

"But... to do a no-fly zone... I would have to put British fighter jets directly against Russian fighter jets. Nato would have to effectively declare war on Russia because that's what you would do."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said if Boris Johnson brought forward tougher sanctions on Russia, they would be voted through Parliament "very, very quickly" with the Labour Party's support.

He also strengthened his appeal for Russia to be banned from international financial system Swift, describing the move as a "now decision" which should be made as soon as possible.

"That is a now decision and the Labour Party would support it in full. We think it should happen now," he told BBC Breakfast.

Sir Keir called for shell companies in the UK supporting Vladimir Putin's regime to be targeted, saying there was "frustration" in Parliament that the Government hasn't "got on with this".

"What I've said to the Prime Minister is whatever criticism I've got for you, not having done it now, do it now. If you bring forward legislation, I said to the Prime Minister on Monday, we the Labour Party will vote for it.

"We could bring this through Parliament very, very quickly because those shell companies are hiding assets that are supporting Putin and we have to get our house in order and there's such a will in Parliament at the moment."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain will "work all day" to try to get the Swift international payment system "turned off for Russia".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Britain wants the Swift system to be turned off for Russia. But unfortunately the Swift system is not in our control - it's not a unilateral decision."

Mr Wallace said the system is used "to move money around", explaining: "When you pay Russia for its gas, it probably goes through the Swift system, for example. It is based in Belgium. It has a number of partners that control it, or nation states."

He added: "We want it switched off. Other countries do not. We only have so many options. We are going to work all day to try and get it (switched off for Russia)."

An urgent question on the military situation in Ukraine will take place in the House of Commons from 11am.

It has been tabled by Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough).

The House of Lords will be debating Ukraine and Russia from 10am.

The Government has been pressed to give an update on China's position on Ukraine and on missiles "arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise" peace in Bosnia.

As the Commons began a Friday sitting, Conservative MP Sir Bernard Jenkin (Harwich and North Essex) said: "I appreciate there is an urgent question on Ukraine later on, but I wonder if the Government has given any indication about whether they are going to make a statement about our relations with China, given that China has done nothing to condemn the Ukrainian incursion, and whether the Government will also make a statement about what is happening in the Balkans where I understand that missiles are arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise the Dayton Agreement and create a new crisis there."

Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle said he was sure the Government would take Sir Bernard's comments "very seriously".

Sir Lindsay said: "I have been given no notification that anything is forthcoming. What I would say is that we do have the urgent question and I am sure that he may be able to press the minister if he were able to catch my eye."

Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough) has tabled an urgent question on the latest information about the invasion of Ukraine, due to be answered at 11am Friday.

Defence minister James Heappey is expected to respond to the urgent question granted in the Commons on Ukraine at 11am.

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries welcomed Uefa's decision to strip St Petersburg of the Champions League final over the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

She said: "I welcome Uefa's decisive action to strip St Petersburg of staging this year's Champions League Final.

"Russia must not be allowed to exploit sporting and cultural events on the world stage to legitimise its unprovoked, premeditated and needless attack against a sovereign democratic state."

Defence minister Baroness Goldie said there is currently no indication Russia intends to "directly target" UK or Nato forces, but they "remain on guard", with cyber attacks expected.

Opening a debate in the House of Lords, Lady Goldie said 1,000 troops are on stand-by to deal with the exodus of people from Ukraine.

She told peers: "It goes without saying that our thoughts and prayers remain with the Ukrainian people, many of whom have family and friends in the UK, and will now find themselves under attack for no reason whatsoever.

"But at the same time we remain on guard. While there is no indication at present that Russia intends to directly target British or Nato forces, we should expect their forces and proxies to launch cyber attacks and misinformation campaigns, seeking opportunities to embarrass the UK or Nato and to undermine our resolve.

"We stand ready to protect our country against any threats, whether conventional or in cyberspace.

"However, I'm afraid there's no disguising the fact that a dark new chapter has opened in our history."

The UK will send further armed forces to Estonia "earlier than planned" to reinforce the Nato ally in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Responding to an Urgent Question, Defence minister James Heappey told the Commons: "In addition to the Royal Tank Regiment battle group that has been in place in Estonia for the last six months, the Royal Welsh battlegroup will be arriving in Estonia earlier than planned to double up our force levels and those doubled-up force levels remain indefinitely.

"They will be augmented by the headquarters of 12 Mechanised Brigade, meaning that the United Kingdom will have an armoured brigade in Estonia reassuring one of our closest Nato allies."

Nato troops must not enter Ukraine because of the "risk of miscalculation" leading to "existential" threat, a minister has said.

Defence minister James Heappey told MPs that the Government would "explore all that we can do to support the Ukrainians themselves over the next few days".

He added: "But we must all in this House be clear that British and Nato troops should not, must not, play an active role in Ukraine.

"We must all be clear what the risk of miscalculation could be and how existential that could very quickly become if people miscalculate and things escalate unnecessarily."

A software engineer and Masters student in Kyiv has said that Ukrainians are "scared, but hopeful and extremely angry" as Russia targets the Ukrainian capital.

Olesia, 22, has been sheltering with friends and family in her home and said she has heard sirens go off four times on February 25.

She told the PA news agency: "We hosted some people, because our house is more reliable, and are hosting family and friends here. We've heard sirens that indicate air alarm, I believe, four times today...

"We have some acquaintances in the part of the city where heavy shelling was coming just now, glad to know they're okay.

"People are scared, but hopeful and extremely angry. We trust our military, we believe we will withstand the attacks, some of my relatives have gone to the territorial defence, I'm considering that too."

She added that she wants the "international public to realise this is a threat to world's safety, not just Ukraine" and for governments across the globe "to ban Russia from Swift and to shelter Ukrainian sky, to provide military and financial help to Ukraine".

Conservative MP Peter Bone asked the minister to update the House on whether the UK and Western allies will institute a no-fly zone on Ukraine.

The MP for Wellingborough said: "We are seeing history repeat itself, as a powerful country, headed by a mad man, is extending its territorial boundaries. First by annexing regions of sovereign countries and then invading those countries. This, of course, is what happened in the 1930s and led to World War."

He added: "The Ukraine ambassador to the United Kingdom has asked for us and our allies to institute a no-fly zone of Ukraine. As the ambassador said, people are dying as we speak.

"This action will be a significant and a real help for the people of Ukraine. Yesterday, when I asked the Prime Minister about this request, he indicated it was not ruled out. Could the minister update the House on this request for help?"

Defence minister James Heappey said a no-fly zone is "somewhat difficult to implement in a hostile airspace against a peer adversary".

He noted eyes must be open to the reality that "in such an event, Nato jets would not possibly, but would most certainly probably, come into a combat situation with Russian jets."

Mr Heappey went on: "The risk of miscalculation and escalation and the triggering of Article 5 could not be understated in those circumstances. In the air domain, the risk of miscalculation is greater because things are happening at Mach 2. And there is no time for political calibration."

Shadow defence secretary John Healey pressed the Government on whether the UK will provide Ukraine with short-range handheld anti-tank missiles.

He said: "On Wednesday, the Prime Minister told the House the UK will be shortly providing a further package of military support to Ukraine. We understand the minister's comments about detail, but has this further military assistance being provided?

"The minister knows he has Labour's full support for this."

Mr Healey said the "UK's short-range handheld anti-tank missiles are working well", adding: "He knows that the Ukrainians need more of these urgently to defend Kiev and their other cities. So, can he confirm that he is willing to go that bit further?"

Mr Healey concluded his remarks by saying: "We've taken peace and security in Europe for granted since the end of the Cold War. We can no longer do that.

"I fear that we will be dealing with the consequences of this Russian invasion now for years to come."

Responding to shadow defence secretary John Healey, Defence minister James Heappey said anti-tank missiles had "already proven to be invaluable" in the conflict in Ukraine.

Mr Heappey said the weapons were "high on our list of things that we are looking to supply", adding: "They are unsubstantiated reports, but nonetheless we are aware of the number of circumstances in which they have been used to defeat Russian armour, and we are therefore very aware of their utility both in open battle during the initial phase of the conflict but also in the urban domain in any resistance or insurgency that might follow."

The Defence minister also shared insight that Russia's invasion had not been as successful as planned.

He said: "Suffice to say, we are pretty certain that in the Kremlin last night there will have been some pretty urgent reflections on the speed of the advance compared to what they anticipated.

"I think that Russian people should be calling President Putin and the kleptocracy that surrounds him out on that, because young Russian men and women are being sacrificed in the name of President Putin's hubris."

A total of 1,000 UK troops are on stand-by to support Ukraine's neighbours with refugee responses, a Defence minister has said.

Labour MP for Pontypridd Alex Davies-Jones asked: "Will the 1,000 UK troops that he has placed on stand-by to help with the humanitarian crisis now be urgently deployed?"

Defence minister James Heappey replied: "Just to be very clear - because I think unless I am almost doing her a dis-service - I might have understood her question to be will the 1,000 troops go into Ukraine as they did into Kabul into the summer to facilitate the egress of Ukrainians.

"I am afraid she will be disappointed. That is just not something that could realistically be done. This is a highly kinetic combat situation and the probability of Nato troops being caught up in combat with Russian armed forces is far too high and would lead to huge escalation.

"The 1,000 troops that are on stand-by are there to support Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Poland with the expected humanitarian challenges that they will face as people make their way out of Ukraine."

Conservative MP Dr Luke Evans (Bosworth) asked: "What sanctions and steps will we take to make sure that Belarus feel the pain for what they are doing?"

Mr Heappey replied: "The Belarusian ambassador has been summoned to the Foreign Office today to have the views of Her Majesty's Government shared with them. Belarus has also been included in the sanctions regime."

Downing Street said "nothing is off the table" in support of Ukraine.

A spokesman for Boris Johnson said: "We remain firmly behind Ukraine and will continue to support them."

The spokesman said he could not go into detail over the support being provided but the UK had "talked about protective equipment, helmets, body armour, as well as some of the defensive lethal aid that we've provided in terms of anti-tank weaponry".

The UK Government is working "incredibly closely" with Ukraine's neighbours to support those fleeing the country, No 10 said.

"You'll be aware that we deployed an extra 350 troops to Poland a fortnight ago to help exactly with that task," a spokesman for Boris Johnson said and he pointed towards the Home Secretary's announcement on visa extensions.

Boris Johnson is expected to raise the prospect of banning Russia from the Swift payment system with allies again on Friday, Downing Street said.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister was asked whether the UK would be pushing for the sanction and he said: "You'll have heard the Prime Minister's comments in the House on this yesterday, we will continue to work with allies to try and cut Russia off from Swift.

"You'll be aware that the PM raised this in his call with G7 leaders yesterday, I expect he will raise it at the Nato leaders meeting again today."

The spokesman would not be drawn on which countries were holding out on the proposal but he said: "We've set out why we want to ensure that we can do this, as the Prime Minister said yesterday to ensure that we send a clear message to Vladimir Putin that his efforts will not succeed and to ensure that we can deal a severe blow to the Russian economy."

"As I say, the Prime Minister will raise it again later today," he added.

Conservative MP Nickie Aiken (Cities of London and Westminster) wondered if President Vladimir Putin may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression.

She said: "As I said goodbye to my own children this morning and wish them a good day in school, my thoughts turned to the mums in Ukraine who now fear for the future of their own children.

"And, as we saw in the newspaper today, and I was taken by the photos in the Daily Mail of children, primary school children taking shelter in in bomb shelters, if President Putin has failed to listen to the major international diplomatic efforts, if he has failed to listen to Nato, to the EU, and the Ukrainian people, does my right honourable friend think he may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression?"

Defence minister James Heappey said: "I hope so, but I fear that he's not the sort of man that does and that's why we need to do everything we can to empower those people with all the information we can get them about the complete disregard that President Putin has for the lives of their boys and girls."

Mr Heappey said he was "struck" by reports of the Russian use of mobile crematorium to follow their front lines as whilst colleagues back from Iraq and Afghanistan were buried in flag-draped coffins, "Putin just sends around a mobile crematorium and burns them".

This is a "social media rage war", defence minister James Heappey has said.

Mr Heappey's comments came as Labour former minister Dame Diana Johnson pressed the minister on whether the Government will be recording the use of sexual violence in warfare.

She said: "I wanted to just press the minister a little bit more on war crimes. I'm very pleased to hear that they are being recorded and monitored.

"I wondered, in particular, if the minister could just say something about the use of sexual violence in warfare, and how his Government will be recording that, and then what exactly will happen next, just so I understand what the process will be?"

Mr Heappey replied: "It's no consolation to the people of Ukraine but within the British armed forces we've given a huge amount of thought to how we must operate in future conflict very mindful of women, peace and security, and the challenges that far too many women and children face in conflict broadly pursued between men.

"I'm not sure, I'm afraid, that there is that much regard for that being given by the Russians. But I would come back to it if I have any information to the contrary."

The minister insisted war crimes will be monitored "as best we can", adding: "As she's seeing from all of the open source intelligence that's available on social media, this is a very different type of war to even Gulf War One and Two. This is a social media rage war. And these outrages are often there."

Boris Johnson will host the leaders of the V4 countries in London next month to discuss the Ukraine crisis.

No 10 said the Prime Minister will hold a meeting with the leaders of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia on March 8 to "discuss the situation in Ukraine and the UK's support for security in the region".

More sanctions are needed to hit Russia, including targeting Vladimir Putin's inner circle, Boris Johnson has agreed with the leaders of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF).

The JEF is a UK-led group comprising Iceland, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Latvia and the UK which works together to deliver forces at high readiness, across a range of roles.

A No 10 spokesman said the Prime Minister spoke to the leaders on Friday.

The spokesman said: "He reiterated that this was a defining moment in European history, with global implications. The Prime Minister said he believed the Ukrainian people would continue to fight and had done so gallantly in the recent hours and days.

"The leaders agreed that more sanctions were needed, including focusing on President Putin's inner circle, building on the measures that had already been agreed."

Mr Johnson said more support must be given to Ukraine "as a matter of the greatest urgency".

Maxim Yermalovich, the ambassador to the UK from Russia-ally Belarus, has arrived at the Foreign Office after being summoned over the Ukrainian invasion.

Russia has said the Defence Secretary could have used "similar adjectives" to describe Boris Johnson when he told troops that Vladimir Putin had gone "full tonto".

Ben Wallace made the unguarded comments while chatting to serving military personnel earlier this week.

Maria Zakharova, Russia's foreign affairs ministry spokesperson, was asked about the comments by Sky News at a press briefing on Friday.

According to the translation on Sky News she said it was "surprising that such evaluations are given by (the) defence minister of the UK regarding authorities of a different state".

She said that "I think he could have thought up of similar adjectives... thinking of (the) British Prime Minister, if we talk about personal judgment."

The bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain "more than 50km from the centre of the city", the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said.

In an intelligence update posted about 3.30pm, the MoD said the Russian armoured forces had "opened a new route of advance towards Kyiv having failed to capture Chernihiv".

The report said there were "reports of sporadic clashes in the northern suburbs of Kyiv, which we continue to monitor" but that "the bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain more than 50km from the centre of the city".

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly urged Belarus to "stop supporting Russia's illegal and unprovoked" offensive in Ukraine after summoning Minsk's ambassador.

A Foreign Office statement added: "Belarus needs to desist from its support to Russia and respect Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty in line with its international obligations."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner said President Putin's actions in attacking Ukraine were "disgraceful".

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "It is absolutely heartbreaking to see the footage out of Ukraine, and the responsibility and the death and the bloodshed lies with Putin.

"He shouldn't have done this. He knows that he's broken international law.

"This is devastating to see what's happened here and the hand of history will not be kind to Putin and his regime for what they've done.

"It is really devastating to see what's happening.

"All of my thoughts are with the people of Ukraine and people who are watching that, and people in Russia who have strong links to family in Ukraine who are seeing this.

"It's disgraceful what Putin has done and he will be judged by his actions by the international community."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner welcomed the Prime Minister's vow to help Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "We should be working with our international allies and partners to support every Ukrainian who needs that support at the moment.

"They are in need, and we should be responding to that need."

She said she was proud to be British and to see the support shown for Ukrainians.

Ms Rayner said: "To see those pictures and to hear that statement for those soldiers that wouldn't give up when they were told to give up, 13 of them, and they all were killed, to see that and to see the defiance against that regime who was trying to use bloodshed to bring people to their knees.

"I'm incredibly proud of the Ukrainians and I'm proud I'm proud of what our country is doing to support their freedom and their right to exist.

Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg has said "the world will hold Russia and Belarus accountable for their actions".

Addressing a press briefing following a virtual meeting of Nato leaders, Mr Stoltenberg said: "We call on Russia to stop this senseless war immediately."

He warned that "the Kremlin's objectives are not limited to Ukraine" and that "we are facing a new normal in European security where Russia openly contests the European security order and uses force to pursue its objectives".

He said: "President Putin's decision to pursue his aggression against Ukraine is a terrible strategic mistake."

Mr Stoltenberg added that although significant sanctions had already been announced "we must stand ready to do more, even if it means we have to pay a price, because we are in this for the long haul".

The secretary-general said Nato had deployed thousands more troops to the eastern part of the alliance, and will "do what it takes to protect and defend every ally and every inch of Nato territory".

Britain's chief of defence intelligence has said that Russian forces are seeking to encircle the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, with a view to imposing a pro-Moscow regime.

Lieutenant General Sir Jim Hockenhull said the Ukrainian military was continuing to offer "strong resistance" in the face of the Russian advance.

"Russian forces continue to advance on two axes towards Kyiv.

"Their objective is to encircle the capital to secure control of the population and change the regime," he told reporters.

"Overnight Russian launched a concerted series of strikes on targets Kyiv. Ukrainian armed forces continue to offer strong resistance focusing on the defence of key cities throughout Ukraine."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng met with BP's chief executive Bernard Looney on Friday to discuss the company's 20% stake in Russia's state-backed oil giant Rosneft.

Mr Looney also sits on the Rosneft board, along with former BP boss Bob Dudley.

Rosneft's chief executive Igor Sechin - a close ally of Vladimir Putin - is on the US sanctions list.

A Whitehall source told the PA news agency: "BP left the meeting with no doubt about the strength of the Business Secretary's concern about their commercial interests in Russia."

Boris Johnson has told Nato leaders that "immediate action" must be taken to ban Russia from the Swift payment platform to "inflict maximum pain" on Vladimir Putin.

The Prime Minister attended a virtual meeting of the leaders on Friday afternoon and warned Nato leaders that Mr Putin was "engaging in a revanchist mission to overturn post-Cold War order", according to a No 10 spokesperson.

The spokesperson said the PM had "urged leaders to take immediate action against Swift to inflict maximum pain on President Putin and his regime"

Mr Johnson told the leaders "the UK would introduce sanctions against President Putin and foreign minister Sergei Lavrov imminently, on top of the sanctions package the UK announced yesterday", bringing the Government in line with measures announced by the EU.

The spokesperson said: "He warned the group that the Russian president's ambitions might not stop there and that this was a Euro-Atlantic crisis with global consequences."

No 10 said Boris Johnson told Nato leaders that the UK armed forces "stood ready for any further request" for further military support.

A Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister told a meeting of Nato leaders on Friday "that the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression".

The spokesperson said the PM told the meeting "Ukraine was showing strong resistance, he added that there could no normalisation of relations with Russia after this act".

"The Prime Minister outlined details of the UK's new offer to Nato across its eastern flank. The UK stood ready for any further request from Nato's Supreme Allied Commander Europe to go further with military support to Nato from UK Armed Forces, he said," according to the spokesperson.

"Nato should have primacy in the future of European security and it was vital that it was strengthened now, the Prime Minister added."

Western allies fear Russia could use thermobaric weapons against Ukrainian forces if they continue to hold up their advance.

Western officials believe Russian forces missed most of their day one objectives of the invasion and could resort to indiscriminate firing to make up ground.

One official said this could include thermobaric weapons which Russia is known to have in its armoury and has used in past conflicts - although they have not been seen so far on the battlefield in Ukraine.

"My fear would be that if they don't meet their timescale and objectives they would be indiscriminate in their use of violence," the official said.

Ireland's deputy premier Leo Varadkar has branded Vladimir Putin the "Hitler of the 21st century".

The Tanaiste acknowledged that sanctions such as the potential banning of Russia from the Swift payment network would have economic implications for Ireland.

But he said those consequences needed to be accepted given the situation in Ukraine.

"I don't think we're in that space where we can be concerned about the economic impact on Ireland when a democratic country in the European Union is being invaded and the attempt is being made to overthrow a democratic government there," he told RTE Radio One.

Mr Varadkar added: "The last time I can think of that happening in Europe is in the 1930s and I think we should see this conflict in that context.

"We knew that Putin was a bad man, we've known that for a long time now, but we didn't think that he would be the Hitler of the 21st century and I think he's putting himself into that space."

Russian ambassador to Ireland Yuri Filatov has claimed his country's invasion of Ukraine is a "humanitarian intervention".

Mr Filatov said there was no proof that Russian forces had targeted civilians in the assault.

He claimed Ukraine had used engagement in diplomacy in recent times as a cover for preparing an offensive on the Donbas region of the country.

"It's not our choice, the military option is not our choice," he told RTE.

He added: "There was no other choice to end the suffering of Donbas through real humanitarian intervention - that's what this special operation is exactly about.

"The only aim of the operation is to neutralise the ability of the Ukrainian military to inflict any more suffering on Donbas. Ukrainians should not be afraid of that."

His comments come amid increasing calls from opposition parties in Ireland to expel Mr Filatov from the country.

Asked why he should be allowed to stay, the ambassador said: "You might ask your Government, it's up to them. I can leave any time."

The Transport Secretary said he has extended a UK flight ban on Russian aircraft to include private jets.

The Government previously announced it was banning Russia's flag carrier Aeroflot from landing in the UK.

Grant Shapps tweeted: "Putin's actions are unlawful and anyone benefitting from Russia's aggression in Ukraine is not welcome here. I've strengthened our ban in the UK so that no Russian private jet can fly in UK airspace, or touchdown - effective immediately."

Boris Johnson has addressed a message directly to the people of Russia, saying in Russian: "I do not believe this war is in your name."

In a video posted on social media, the Prime Minister also spoke Ukrainian after urging an end to the conflict "because the world needs a free and sovereign Ukraine".

He said: "The scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy.

"Brave young soldiers and innocent civilians are being cut down, tanks are rumbling through towns and cities, missiles raining indiscriminately from the skies.

"It's a generation or more since we witnessed such bloodshed in Europe. We hoped we would never have to see such sights again."

Mr Johnson continued: "The people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.

"We salute the fierce bravery and patriotism of your government, your military and your people."

The Prime Minister went on to say: "Like Ukraine, Russia's poets and artists and authors have shaped our culture and Russia's soldiers fought so bravely with us in the struggle against fascism.

"But Putin's actions are leading to complete isolation for Russia, shunned by the rest of the international community, hit by immense economic sanctions and facing a needless and bloody war that is already costing countless lives, from innocent Ukrainians to your Russian soldiers who will never see their families again."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220225ei2p000gp


Inquirer
Putin’s war on the West is a bid to redraw Europe
Cameron Stewart
2693 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 13:00 GMT
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
Vladimir Putin has embarked on his biggest gamble, one that will ­redraw the map of Europe, trigger devastating war and partly restore his beloved Soviet empire.

The Russian President has ­orchestrated an unspeakable ­carnage as innocent Ukrainians cower under a brutal onslaught of bombs and tanks in scenes more reminiscent of Hitler’s invasion of Poland than modern Europe.

The rest of the world, including Australia, is watching in jaw-dropping horror at Russia’s invasion, hurling its collective disgust at Putin and threatening to impose evermore sweeping financial and economic sanctions on Moscow.

And yet the West is all but powerless to stop this war. It can only watch on helplessly as Putin drives a stake through the heart of those who naively believed the fall of the Berlin Wall three decades ago marked the end of Russian despots. An unprovoked attack on a major European power was confined to the history books, or so we thought.

What is remarkable about his attack on Ukraine is how Putin, a lifelong risk-taker, has managed to turn the odds in this crisis so heavily in his favour. At least for now.

The US and NATO will not bend in their refusal to intervene militarily to defend Ukraine, which is not a NATO member. Even if there were a will to try to defend Ukraine militarily, a war fought right on Russia’s border would come at a cost in lives that no Western nation would accept.

From his vantage point in the Kremlin, Putin sees nothing but opportunity. He sees a divided Europe which too often seemed more concerned about losing access to Russian gas supplies than it was about the invasion of a sovereign nation. He sees a polarised America, weary of foreign wars with an ageing President who is still damaged by the chaotic US withdrawal from Afghanistan.

Polls this week show just 26 per cent of Americans think the US should play a major role in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, giving Joe Biden little room to move.

With China, Putin has worked assiduously in recent months to forge closer links with Beijing and neutralise any opposition on Ukraine.

As Michele Flournoy, the top Pentagon policy official in the Obama administration, says; “We’re seeing that while Beijing doesn’t really like Putin’s tactics, they’re willing to band together as authoritarian states against the Western democracies.”

Satellite imagery released on February 24 shows the movement of Russian military vehicles in south western parts of Belarus, near the Polish and Ukrainian borders.

In the meantime, Putin has slowly and methodically ensured that his invasion, which began in earnest on Thursday, is likely to be a military rout given that he had surrounded Ukraine on three sides with more than 170,000 Russian troops backed by tanks, missiles and overwhelming firepower.

This week, Putin put the final touches on his invasion plans by giving a tortured re-imagining of Ukrainian history to try to argue that Kyiv had no rights as a sovereign nation. Putin’s message to Russians is that an invasion of Ukraine is really not an invasion of another country, but a reclaiming of a lost part of Russia, like a spiritual reunion of long lost friends. It is an argument that sinks under scrutiny but which exploits popular nostalgia for the Soviet empire, the loss of which Putin has called “the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century”.

On every level, Putin has confected this Ukraine invasion like a Russian grand master in chess, carefully moving his pieces into place, politically, militarily and psychologically, over many months to prepare for this terrible moment.

As such he is on the cusp of something he has spent decades longing for.

“Putin’s overarching aim is reversing the consequences of the Soviet collapse, splitting the transatlantic alliance and renegotiating the geographic settlement that ended the Cold War,” says former US intelligence officer Angela Stent. “The current crisis between Russia and Ukraine is a reckoning that has been 30 years in the making. It is much more than Ukraine and its possible NATO membership. It is about the future of the European order crafted after the Soviet Union’s collapse.”

Biden was equally blunt about Putin’s ambitions. Putin “has much larger ambitions than Ukraine. He wants to, in fact, re-establish the former Soviet Union. That’s what this is about,” he says.

The question is why now? After all, Putin made similar claims about Ukraine being a natural part of greater Russia when he invaded Ukraine’s Crimea Peninsula in 2014, yet he stopped short of attacking the rest of the country.

At that time, citing Crimea’s long history as part of Russia, Putin said of Crimea: “This strategic territory should be under a strong, sovereign state and that in fact can only be Russia.”

Putin justifies this week’s invasion of Ukraine on the spurious grounds that the country could be a “springboard” for a NATO ­attack against Russia.

NATO has certainly provoked Russia by progressively expanding eastwards since the end of the Cold War. But Ukraine is no closer now to joining NATO than it was in 2014. Putin has made a series of impossible demands on NATO, one of which is to promise that there will be no further expansion of the pact, including Ukraine.

For reasons which only Putin can truly know, this was his ­moment to act.

“The President of the Russian Federation is operating at a higher risk-tolerance level,” says Lieutenant General Ben Hodges who commanded the US Army in ­Europe from 2014 to 2017. “He is confident because we, the West, have not stopped him before or forced him to back down.”

But Putin’s decision to invade still comes with significant risk, even if he knows that Russia cannot be defeated militarily by the far smaller Ukraine army.

The size and scale of the sanctions which the West are now set to impose on Russia will dwarf those previously imposed on ­Moscow for Putin’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 or his invasion of Georgia in 2008.

The US and Europe initially announced relatively modest sanctions this week, reserving the toughest measures for a full scale invasion. Biden claims his planned sanctions will effectively cut Russia off from Western financing and inflict grievous harm on Russia’s economy and its leadership. German chancellor Olaf Scholz, who had previously been noncommittal about tough sanctions, this week agreed to put the $11bn Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline on hold, a move that will deny Moscow increased energy sales to Europe. This is one measure that will directly hurt Russia, but it also hits the EU which receives one third of its energy from Russia.

Russian sanctions will also hurt Europe, the US and the global economy and it will be a test of Western resolve to maintain them and increase them. Putin knows that mega-sanctions will damage Russia’s already stagnant economy, but it is obvious that he has already factored this into his overall plan on Ukraine. Putin has planned for this day and for these sanctions. Ever since the West imposed sanctions on Russia after the 2014 annexation of Crimea, Putin has been working to make Russia’s economy “sanction proof” by boosting foreign reserves, buying gold, and exporting more from neutral countries like China. Russia’s central bank has $US630bn in reserves of foreign exchange and gold, having grown from $US368bn in 2015. It would take a complete collapse of Russia’s economy – an unlikely scenario – for Putin’s leadership to be jeopardised.

The greater risk for Putin in invading Ukraine is not the immediate military outcome, but rather the long-term plan if Russian troops were to become an ­occupying force.

It is expected that Putin’s overwhelmingly superior Russian forces will conquer Ukraine in a relatively short period of time. But then what?

Ukraine is a democratic country of 44 million people, the ­majority of whom like their democracy and their freedoms and who say, according to the polls, that they would like their country to one day become a member of NATO.

In announcing his invasion, Putin claimed that he does not intend to occupy Ukraine, but rather seeks to “demilitarise” the country. But it is unclear how he can exert real control over Ukraine without keeping Russian troops there.

By invading and continuing to occupy Ukraine, Putin risks a military quagmire where Russian troops are drawn into a guerrilla-style war against pro-Ukrainian militia. This is what doomed Russia in Afghanistan in the 1980s.

NED-5569-Key cities in Putin’s sights

And then there is the vast human cost, although Putin gives no sign of caring about this. US intelligence estimates project an all-out invasion of Ukraine would see between 25,000 and 50,000 civilians killed or wounded, and between 5000 and 25,000 Ukrainian troops and 3000 to 10,000 Russian troops killed or wounded. It would be easily the most devastating conflict in ­Europe since World War II.

Putin has been careful to keep his options open and watch how the world reacts. His decision early in the week to formally recognise the independence of the breakaway pro-Russian areas of Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine and then start sending Russian forces only into that ­disputed region initially confounded the US and Europe. Was it a true “invasion” and what level of sanctions should be imposed on Moscow?

It was only on Thursday when Putin launched his bombing campaign in Kyiv and other cities that his true intentions became clear.

Putin’s journey to this point in history has been a deeply personal one. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989 and the Soviet Union disintegrated, he was a KGB officer based in Dresden in Germany. His life’s work to that point became meaningless overnight. Suddenly millions of Russians found themselves living outside Russia, in newly independent countries like Ukraine. A smaller, weaker Russia saw 41 per cent of its GDP vanish overnight. It was no longer a superpower

Putin claimed in a recent speech that he, like millions of Russians, fell on hard times in the 1990s as he tried to remake his life. He even claimed to have been a taxi driver for a while, saying: “Honestly, it’s not very pleasant to speak about.”

After the fall of the Soviet Union, “people found themselves abroad overnight, taken away, this time indeed from their ­historical motherland”, Putin wrote last year in a 5000-word essay which was delivered to Russian troops.

Putin speaks bitterly about what he calls the broken promises from the West at the time that NATO would never extend eastwards beyond Germany.

Observers say a turning point for the Russian President was the decision by NATO to turn eastwards in 2004 and grant membership to Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.

In 2007, Putin angrily accused the US of going too far and of having “overstepped its borders in every way”. NATO’s expansion, he said, was also “a serious provocation that reduces everybody’s trust”.

Then in 2008, NATO prematurely declared that Georgia and Ukraine “will become members of NATO”. It was one provocation too far for Putin who invaded Georgia later that year.

Putin has also detested what he sees as the belittling of Russia by the West in the post Cold War years. The late US senator John McCain famously disparaged Russia as a “gas station masquerading as a country”, while Barack Obama would refer to Moscow as merely a “regional power”.

Rodric Braithwaite, the British ambassador to Moscow when the Soviet Union collapsed, believes Putin’s wounded pride about the collapse of the Soviet Union is shared by many ordinary Russians.

“What Putin says about the humiliation of the Soviet collapse, the enlargement of NATO, and the intimate historical link between Russian and Ukrainian history is not his own idea,” Braithwaite says.

“Millions of Russians think and feel just like he does.”

But the scale of the attack on Ukraine has also shocked many Russians, with thousands taking to the streets to protest before being subdued by police.

Putin’s speech this week days before the invasion saw him reach new levels of sentimental extremes about Ukraine to publicly justify what was about to ­unfold.

“Ukraine is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space,” Putin said.

“These are our comrades, those dearest to us – not only colleagues, friends and people who once served together, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties.”

He portrayed Russia as the victim. “Ukraine will serve as the springboard for the strike (against Russia),” Putin claimed without evidence. “If our ancestors had heard about it, they probably would simply not have believed it. And today, they don’t want to believe it but it’s true.”

Putin continued on this theme when he announced the Russian offensive on Thursday, saying Russia couldn’t “tolerate the threat that emanates from modern” Ukraine. He asserted that the attack was needed to protect pro-Russian civilians in Donbas – even though his forces also ­attacked infrastructure in Kyiv and across the country.

“We were simply left with no chance to act otherwise,” Putin told a meeting of Russian business leaders this week.

Putin has ordered this military offensive knowing that it will come at great cost to US and ­European prestige. He knows that Biden is ultimately impotent to control what now happens in Ukraine.

The US President has sent more American troops to Europe and will reposition them around the Baltic States. Biden has said he will not send in troops to fight Russia in Ukraine but has vowed to defend any attack on a NATO member should Putin seek to ­expand his strikes beyond Ukraine’s borders. Sanctions and angry rhetoric are all that Washington, Europe and Australia can throw at Moscow for now.

America’s inability to persuade Putin to back down is a historic diplomatic failure and the gut-wrenching images this week bombs exploding across Ukraine will only heighten the sense of helplessness that many in the West feel. It has the potential to gravely hurt Biden’s presidency. A new Gallup poll shows just 36 per cent of Americans approve of how Biden has handled the situation with Russia, while 55 per cent disapprove. Worst of all, especially for Australia, is the fear that Western impotence over Ukraine could embolden China over Indo-Pacific flashpoints like Taiwan and the South China Sea.

But this is all a part of Putin’s plan. By invading Ukraine he has forced Washington to look to ­Europe at a time when it wants to concentrate on the challenge of a rising China in the Indo-Pacific.

As The Wall Street Journal puts it: “Russia’s audacious military assault on Ukraine is the first major clash marking a new order in international politics. This emerging order leaves the US contending with two adversaries at once in geographically disparate parts of the world.”

Ever since he came to power in 1999, Putin has been a risk-taker. He has subjugated democracy in Russia to effectively anoint himself as a dictator and has surprised the West with his boldness in sending Russian troops into Syria, annexing Crimea and invading Georgia.

But Putin’s invasion of Ukraine dwarfs his previous excesses. In the eyes of the West, he will now sit in the pantheon of Russian tyrants alongside Stalin and Lenin.

As Biden put it: “Who in the Lord’s name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belonged to his neighbours?”

Biden is right when he says Putin has created this “premeditated war” in Ukraine and that “Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this ­attack will bring”.

But in the same breath Biden also claims that “the world will hold Russia accountable”. The burning question is how?

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 AUSTOL0020220225ei2p0056c


The Ukraine Crisis: Eastern European Neighbors Face a Military Reckoning
By Drew Hinshaw and Natalia Ojewska
656 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A9
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
RZESZOW, Poland -- European countries on the border with Russia or Ukraine put troops on high alert and are rapidly expanding their militaries, with the Russian invasion of its smaller neighbor set to be a watershed moment for the U.S.'s easternmost allieson the continentand the military alliance that binds them together.

Lithuania introduced a state of emergency and reinforced military deployments near its border with Russia, while Poland kept active military personnel on duty and canceled leaves of absence and rotations home for the foreseeable future.

Both countries also called on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to invoke Article 4, a clause that would require all 30 governments in the military alliance to hold consultations on the crisis in Ukraine. Meanwhile, Slovakia and Hungary sent troops to manage a possible influx of people fleeing Ukraine.

Defense ministers, intelligence officers and senior politicians from Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia -- all NATO members that border either Russia or Ukraine -- say the long buildup to the invasion of Ukraine has driven them to aggressively ratchet up their military capabilities.

"We don't want to take chances," said Latvia's Defense Minister Artur Pabriks. "We never again want to be under the rule of such guys as him and under the Russians and we will do whatever it takes to keep them out of the country."

Latvia and its Baltic neighbors called Thursday for Russia to be disconnected from the Swift global payment system, escalating diplomatic pressure for what U.S. officials have seen as a sanction of last resort.

For years, Central and Eastern European countries counted on NATO's common-defense clause to protect them against aggression from Russia. At the same time, the alliance avoided rotating substantial numbers of troops there to avoid provoking Russia or violating commitments under a 1997 Russia-NATO agreement.

But U.S. reticence to move troops through the region has steadily fallen away. On Thursday, the first group of 40 U.S. troops arrived in Latvia, to be followed by hundreds more across the Baltic states. The U.K. is sending tanks and armored cars to Estonia and doubling its troop deployments there.

At the same time, governments in Poland and Estonia are ramping up their own capabilities, to ensure their defenses are enough to deter a Russian invasion -- or repel one for long enough to allow NATO allies to assist them.

The Polish government is seeking to nearly double the head count of the country's military to 300,000 people, which would make it one of Europe's largest by troop levels.

That increase began last July, when Polish President Andrzej Duda received intelligence reports from the U.S., later confirmed by Poland's own security services, that Russia -- supported by Moscow's close ally, Belarus -- was likely to escalate conflicts with neighboring states in coming months, a senior adviser to Mr. Duda said. Those plans accelerated in the fall, when Belarus encouraged thousands of asylum seekers, mostly from the Middle East, to cross Poland's border.

Now Poland is buying 250 Abrams tanks from the U.S., part of $6 billion of other defense equipment purchased from American defense contractors that includes thousands of antitank missiles and other sophisticated weapons systems. The government is seeking more personnel to operate weaponry like the $4.75 billion Patriot air defense missile system, which first arrived in the country last year.

"We saw the signals and we reacted," said the adviser.

Latvia is moving to increase its mandatory military service for young adults -- which is currently one day a month, over two years -- to three weeks, hoping to draw more army recruits. It is negotiating with the U.S. to acquire rocket artillery and new air and coastal defense systems. And all three Baltic countries are also increasingly pooling resources to combine capabilities, officials said.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020220225ei2p0001k


Live updates: Zelenskyy declines US offer to evacuate Kyiv
By The Associated Press
9102 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 04:04 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] :

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was asked to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the U.S. government but turned down the offer.

Zelenskyy said in response: “The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride,” according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation, who described Zelenskyy as upbeat.

Invading Russian forces closed in on Ukraine’s capital on Saturday, in an apparent encircling movement after a barrage of airstrikes on cities and military bases around the country.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — A second Russian Ilyushin Il-76 military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles (85 kilometers) south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.

On Friday, Ukraine’s military said it had shot down a Russian military transport plane with paratroopers on board.

According to a statement from the military’s General Staff, the first Il-76 heavy transport plane was shot down near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv. The Russian military has not commented on either incident so far, and the reports could not be immediately verified.

___

TOKYO — Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi says he spoke with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, on the phone Saturday and they agreed they must respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine properly to prevent it from becoming “a wrong lesson” because of its potential influence in Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.

Hayashi declined to comment if Japan plans to join the United States, Britain and the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Hayashi said Japan will stay in close touch with other Group of Seven members and other international leaders while watching the developments.

Hayashi told reporters that he and Blinken reaffirmed their commitment to work closely with the rest of international society and they agreed it is necessary to reject Russia's unilateral act to change the status quo.

___

UNITED NATIONS—Russia has vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution demanding that Moscow stop its attack on Ukraine and withdraw all troops.

Friday’s vote was 11-1, with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining. It showed significant but not total opposition to Russia’s invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbor.

The United States and other supporters knew the resolution wouldn’t pass but argued it would highlight Russia’s international isolation. The resolution’s failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the U.N. General Assembly. There are no vetoes in the 193-member assembly. There’s no timetable as yet for a potential Assembly vote.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria on Friday introduced a ban on the entry of Russian aircraft into the country’s airspace.

All aircraft licensed by the Russian Federation may not enter the sovereign airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the airspace over its territorial waters, the government announced. The ban is effective starting Saturday.

The government said it took the action in connection with the escalation of the military conflict and in solidarity with Ukraine.

___

SYDNEY—Australia is imposing sanctions against all 339 members of the Russian parliament and is considering sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne also announced on Saturday sanctions against eight Russian oligarchs close to Putin. Australia was also taking steps to imposed sanctions on key figures in the Belarusian government who had aided the Ukraine invasion.

Payne said she was seeking advice from her department on following western allies’ example in sanctioning Putin.

“It is an exceptional step to sanction leaders, but this is an exceptional situation,” Payne said.

___

WASHINGTON—Ukraine’s top diplomatic envoy in the U.S. is urging countries to sever diplomatic relations with Russia over its invasion of their country.

Ambassador Oksana Markarova’s request came in an emergency meeting Friday at the Washington-based Organization of American States, whose members were debating a resolution condemning the military attack ordered by President Vladimir Putin.

“It’s hard to imagine that something like this happens in the center of Europe in the 21st Century,” an emotional Markarova said during the meeting. She urged delegates to supply Ukraine with defensive weapons and follow the lead of the Federated States of Micronesia, a Pacific island nation that earlier Friday broke all ties with Russia.

Alexander Kim, a senior diplomat at Russia’s embassy in Washington, towed closely to the Kremlin’s unsubstantiated claim that the military incursion was an attempt to “de-Nazify” a government that had committed scores of atrocities against civilians.

“We are open to diplomacy,” Kim told representatives of more than 30 Latin American governments, many of whom have pursued closer relations with Moscow in recent years. “However, diplomacy presumes an ability to negotiate. It is not a tool for blackmailing and imposing the decision of Washington and its satellite states.”

___

LONDON—British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he is in “close contact” with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as he hailed “the fierce bravery and patriotism” of Ukraine’s government and people.

In a recorded message, Johnson said “the scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy,” calling it bloodshed Europe has not seen in a generation or more.

He said “the people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.”

Johnson also urged Russians to oppose the invasion, which he called “a tragedy for Russia” as well as for Ukraine.

Speaking in Russian, he said: “I do not believe this war is in your name.”

Britain has imposed asset freezes and other sanctions on scores of Russian companies and several oligarchs, and has joined the U.S., Canada and the European Union in slapping sanctions on President Vladimir Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary—Hungary’s foreign minister has offered Budapest as a possible location for negotiations between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine as Russia’s invasion intensifies.

“Budapest can serve as a safe venue for both the Russian and Ukrainian negotiation delegations,” Peter Szijjarto said in a video on Facebook late Friday, adding that he had made the proposal to both Russia’s and Ukraine’s governments, neither of which dismissed it.

“I sincerely hope that an agreement can be reached within a few hours or days to start discussions; the sooner the talks begin, the sooner there will be peace and the fewer people will have to die in the war,” Szijjarto said.

___

BRUSSELS—With a military intervention in Ukraine off the table, countries around the world are looking to heap more financial punishment on Moscow.

The United States, Britain and European Union said Friday they will move to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

The EU’s unanimous decision, part of a broader sanctions package, indicated that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban.

___

TORONTO—Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is announcing sanctions on Russian Vladimir Putin, his chief of staff and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.

Trudeau also says Canada supports the removal of Russia from the SWIFT banking system.

The prime minister is also announcing sanctions against Belarus.

Meanwhile, Canada’s largest province is pulling Russian products from shelves from government owned liquor stores.

Ontario Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy says the province joins Canada’s allies in condemning the Russian government’s act of aggression against the Ukrainian people, and will direct the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to withdraw all products produced in Russia from store shelves.

The French-speaking province of Quebec is also considering banning Russian liquor.

___

UNITED NATIONS—The U.N. plans to seek over $1 billion in donations for humanitarian relief in Ukraine over the next three months, the world body’s humanitarian chief said Friday.

Martin Griffiths said at a news briefing that the exact amount of the appeal is still being decided but will be “well north of $1 billion.”

The U.N. announced Thursday that it was immediately allocating $20 million to expand its humanitarian operations in Ukraine. Even before Russia’s attack this week, the world body estimated about 3 million people were in need of aid after years of fighting between Russian-backed separatists and the Ukrainian government in the country’s east.

Now, “the scale of need in these very, very extraordinary circumstances is going to be of the highest,” Griffiths said.

The U.N. issues multiple appeals each year for international donors, mainly governments, to finance humanitarian efforts in trouble spots around the world. Last month, it requested more than $5 billion for Afghanistan, the largest-ever appeal tied to a single country.

___

RICHMOND, Va.—Criminal ransomware operators are posting messages on the dark web pledging to launch retaliatory cyberattacks if Russia is attacked.

The ransomware group Conti, which experts say has ties to Russia, said in a note on its dark web site Friday that it would “use all our possible resources to strike back at the critical infrastructures of an enemy.”

Ransomware gangs are mostly Russian-speaking and operate with near impunity out of Russia and allied countries.

In a follow up note, the Conti group stressed it was not an ally of any government and said: “we condemn the ongoing war.”

Major ransomware attacks in the last year, including against the biggest U.S. fuel pipeline, have underscored how gangs of extortionist hackers can disrupt the economy and put lives and livelihoods at risk. The U.S. government has been warning critical infrastructure entities to prepare for possible attacks and to make sure their defenses are up to date.

Non-state hackers have promised to be active in both sides of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The online collective Anonymous recently pledged to conduct cyberattacks to support Ukraine.

___

BERLIN—The German government says it plans to deploy troops and the Patriot anti-missile system to Slovakia as part of NATO plans to strengthen the alliance’s eastern flank.

The Defense Ministry said Friday that it plans to send an infantry company as part of a combat troop battalion. And it said that Germany also will contribute the Patriot system.

The ministry stressed that the so-called “enhanced vigilance activity battlegroup” has a purely defensive function.

Slovakia is a NATO and European Union member that borders Ukraine. Germany already is beefing up its troop contingent in Lithuania, another nation on NATO’s eastern flank.

___

KYIV, Ukraine--Russian troops are bearing down on Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv.

Mayor Vitaly Klitschko says five explosions hit an area near a major power plant on the city’s eastern outskirts. There was no information on the cause of the blasts, which Klitschko said occurred at intervals of several minutes. No electricity outages were immediately reported.

The invasion of a democratic country has fueled fears of wider war in Europe and triggered worldwide efforts to make Russia stop.

___

BELGRADE, Serbia—Serbia defied calls from the European Union and the U.S. to join sanctions against Russia, although its autocratic president said that Moscow’s assault against Ukraine is against the international law.

With the move, Serbia remains a rare European state together with Belarus not to join Western sanctions introduced against Moscow for its invasion of a sovereign European state.

“Serbia respects the norms of the international law,” President Aleksandar Vucic said. “But Serbia also understands its own interests.”

Vucic said that Serbia regards the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity as “very wrong,” but added it won’t join international sanctions against Russia.

Despite formally seeking EU membership, Serbia has been strengthening ties with its traditional Slavic ally Russia. Moscow has been supplying Serbia’s armed forces with weapons, leading to more tensions in the Balkans which went through a bloody civil war in the 1990s.

___

ROME—Thousands of Romans and Ukrainians who live in the Italian capital marched side-by-side to the Colosseum to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

They took up the call by Rome’s mayor to clutch lit candles on Friday evening and walk from the square atop the Capitoline Hill to the ancient arena, a few minutes’ stroll away.

Several of the Ukrainians among the marchers wept. They put a hand over their heart while singing the Ukrainian anthem. Others held Ukrainian flags or protest signs or shouted, “hands off our country” or voiced other denunciations of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Among the marchers was Ruslan Yakubovskyy, a Ukrainian.

“I live here, I bought a home here, my family is here, but I am thinking about going back to Ukraine to fight and lend a helping hand,″ he said. “The situation is so difficult that either it’s that the rest of the world is pretending not to see or it doesn’t want to see it at all."

City Hall and the Colosseum were illuminated in the colors of the Ukrainian flag, yellow and blue.

___

WARSAW, Poland - Presidents of NATO’s eastern flank member states gathered Friday in Warsaw voiced their support for tough sanctions on Russia and its leaders for the invasion of Ukraine.

Nine presidents of the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine held a security summit with the participation of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. They also remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

“There cannot be any ‘business as usual’ in this situation in relations with Russia because that would have been a betrayal of the principles of the honest, open world,” Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, said after the talks that he had hosted.

___

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain would introduce sanctions against Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to inflict maximum punishment for invading Ukraine, his Downing Street office said Friday.

Johnson’s pledge comes as the European Union approved an asset freeze on Putin and Lavrov. The comments from Johnson suggest that Western powers are acting in concert on unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor.

In comments to NATO leaders, the UK leader pressed again for immediate action to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions. European nations have faced criticism for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network in offering sanctions on Thursday.

Johnson said “the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression.”

___

TIRANA, Albania—Albania's prime minister on Friday said the tiny Western Balkan country would welcome Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking after a NATO summit Prime Minister Edi Rama said that like all the other NATO member countries, Albania would be ready to welcome a few thousand Ukrainians leaving their country due to the Russian invasion.

Rama did not give any concrete number.

Albania, a NATO member since 2009, has followed the United States and European Union on its stand denouncing Russian invasion.

Albania was the first to offer shelter and then house some 2,400 Afghan evacuees after the Taliban came to power in August last year. Some 300 have already left, mainly for the United States.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday that U.S. President Joe Biden and his counterparts have agreed to send parts of the organization’s response force to help protect allies in the east over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking after chairing a NATO meeting, Stoltenberg said the leaders decided to send parts of the NATO Response Force and elements of a quickly deployed spearhead unit. He did not say how many troops would be deployed, but confirmed that the move would involve land, sea and air power.

The NRF can number up to 40,000 troops, but Stoltenberg said that NATO would not be deploying the entire force. Parts of a force known in NATO jargon as the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which is currently led by France, will also be sent.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has released a video of himself and his senior aides in Kyiv to reassure the nation as Russian troops were closing in on the capital.

In the video Zelenskyy recorded in the street outside the presidential office, he said he and his top officials are staying in the capital.

“Our troops are here, citizens are here,” Zelenskyy said, adding that “All of us are here protecting our independence of our country. And it will continue to be this way. Glory to our defenders, Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes.”

Russian troops bore down on Ukraine’s capital Friday, with gunfire and explosions resonating ever closer to the government quarter.

In the fog of war, it was unclear how much of Ukraine remains under Ukrainian control and how much or little Russian forces have seized. The Kremlin accepted Kyiv’s offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraine’s embattled president instead of a gesture toward a diplomatic solution.

___

ROME — Premier Mario Draghi’s Cabinet on Friday formally approved previously announced participation by 250 Italian military forces and 139 land vehicles in NATO’s enhanced Forward Presence in Latvia, as well as air policing by some 12 aircraft currently deployed in Romania and patrols by an intelligence-gathering aircraft and a refueling aircraft as part of NATO’s shoring up of its eastern flank allies in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The government also approved deployment of 235 military forces aboard two or three naval vessels, as well as an aircraft as part of surveillance and intelligence-gathering in the eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea.

Also getting the government’s formal OK was the mobilization of 1,350 military personnel, involving 77 land vehicles and two naval vessels – with the second one to be deployed in the second half of the year -- as well as five aircraft as part of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force.

Approval was granted for that force to be increased to as many as 1,970 military personnel. The same Cabinet session also granted authorization to provide at no cost non-lethal military equipment to Ukraine, including protective devices for soldiers and de-mining equipment

___

BRUSSELS — Latvia’s foreign minister says the European Union has agreed to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine.

The move indicates that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

Foreign Minister Edgard Rinkevics announced the EU decision Friday in a tweet.

He said another package of sanctions is to be prepared by the EU.

___

PARIS — The leader of the Belarus opposition in exile says the European Union should slap tougher sanctions on Belarus for its role in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Sviatlana Tiskhanouskaya says Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko, a close ally of Russia, has turned her country into “an aggressor” in Ukraine.

She told The Associated Press on Friday that Belarus has become “an aircraft carrier” for the Russian military, carrying troops to Ukraine, re-fueling its war machine and housing soldiers of the invading force.

The United States, the EU, Britain and Canada last year imposed sanctions on Belarusian officials, businesses and several sectors of the economy and the financial system following a brutal crackdown on Lukashenko’s opponents. They were protesting his fraudulent re-election for a sixth term.

French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday called the Belarus government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine and said it will also be targeted with sanctions.

___

WASHINGTON — Russian state broadcaster RT says it was subjected to “massive” denial-of-service attacks after the online collective Anonymous pledged to carry out cyberattacks in support of Ukraine, which is being invaded by Russian forces.

RT said in a statement that the attacks on its websites came from about 100 million devices, mostly based in the U.S. But the broadcaster said it was resolving the issues and its website appeared to be functioning normally Friday.

Anonymous announced a day earlier on Twitter that it is “officially in cyber war against the Russian government” and noted later that the Russian Ministry of Defense website was down.

But it is difficult to attribute a cyberattack to Anonymous or even confirm that someone is a member of a collective that is open to anyone who claims to use hacking for a particular cause.

___

GIBRALTAR — Punitive measures against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine have spread to a tiny speck of territory on Spain’s southern tip, with Gibraltar’s government taking steps against Russia Today television.

Gibraltar on Friday announced it was suspending the Russian state broadcaster for spreading “disinformation.” It also revoked a visa waiver program for Russian citizens.

The office for Chief Minister Fabian Picardo described Russia Today as a “mouthpiece for the Kremlin” that “will become a dangerous source of disinformation that Gibraltar cannot accept on its networks.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s Ministry of Defense says the bulk of Russian forces advancing on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv are more than 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the center of the city.

The ministry said it continues to monitor “sporadic clashes’’ between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the northern suburbs of the capital.

The intelligence update, delivered via Twitter, also said that armored units were forced to open a new route toward Kyiv after failing to capture Chernihiv, a city northeast of the capital near the Belarusian border.

___

BRUSSELS — Europe’s foremost human rights organization has suspended Russia because of its invasion of Ukraine, though it remains a member.

The 47-nation Council of Europe announced Friday that Russia was suspended with “immediate effect” from the Committee of Ministers and the parliamentary assembly “as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed attack on Ukraine.”

The Strasbourg-based organization said Russia remained a member and continued to be bound to the relevant human rights conventions.

“Suspension is not a final measure but a temporary one, leaving channels of communication open,” a statement said.

___

VIENNA — The International Atomic Energy Agency says the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant reported higher-than-usual radiation levels after being taken over by Russian forces invading Ukraine.

But it said Friday that current radiation levels do not pose a threat to the public.

Ukraine’s regulatory authority previously said that increased radiation levels may be due to military vehicles stirring up soil that remains contaminated from the accident in 1986, still known as the worst nuclear disaster in history.

But the measures are “within the operational range measured in the Exclusion Zone since it was established,” according to the IAEA.

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone is a 2,600-square-kilometer (1,000-square-mile) area of forest lying between the Belarus-Ukraine border and the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.

Russian forces took control over the site Thursday after a fierce battle with Ukrainian national guards protecting the plant.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says prospects for possible peace talks between Russia and Ukraine look uncertain due to apparent differences over a venue.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials in Minsk, Belarus, where President Alexander Lukashenko runs a pro-Russian government.

That agreement came in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s offer earlier in the day to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Peskov told reporters that after the parties discussed Minsk as a possible venue, Ukrainian officials changed course and said they were unwilling to travel to Minsk and would prefer to meet in NATO member Poland. They then halted further communication, Peskov said.

Putin has claimed that the western refusal to heed Russia's demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order an invasion of the neighboring country.

___

PRAGUE -- The Czech Republic’s transport minister says his country has banned all Russian airlines from Czech airports, in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Martin Kupka said Friday the ban covers all regular flights between Prague and Moscow and Prague and St. Petersburg, as well as charter flights.

Russian planes will also be banned from landing at the western Czech spa town of Karlovy Vary, a popular destination for Russian tourists. The measure becomes affective at midnight.

Additionally, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said his country will stop issuing visas for Russian citizens and will urge other European Union countries to do the same.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Major retail chains in Lithuania started to remove Russian and Belarusian products from shelves, a move joined by online shops and widely applauded by the public as a protest against Moscow’s decision to invade Ukraine.

Maxima LT, the largest chain in the Baltic nations, said Friday the Russian goods it sells are mainly alcohol, dried products and candy, amounting to millions of euros (dollars) in sales.

Other retailers like drug stores and home suppliers made similar announcements. The Lithuanian postal service said it will not be distributing any more Russian periodicals.

International companies such as IKEA are facing pressure to remove Russian-made goods from sale in the small Baltic country, which fears Russian aggression.

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin has hailed his troops for their courage as they press their offensive across Ukraine and bear down on Kyiv.

Speaking during Friday’s meeting of his Security Council, Putin claimed that most Ukrainian military units are reluctant to engage Russian forces.

He said the units offering resistance are mostly volunteer battalions made up of right-wing Ukrainian nationalists.

He offered no evidence for his claims, which could not be independently verified.

Echoing an earlier Russian military statement, Putin accused Ukrainian forces of deploying heavy weapons in urban areas in several big cities, including Kyiv and Kharkiv, to use civilians as shields.

The Russian president urged the Ukrainian military to end their resistance and turn on their leaders.

___

WARSAW, Poland - European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is in Warsaw for urgent talks with NATO’s nine eastern flank members on how to enhance the region’s security, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The participants were also due to remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, hosting the talks between the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine, in his opening speech said that “demons of a great war, unseen since 1945” have returned to Europe.

NATO’s eastern flank members fear Moscow could also target them.

___

FORT STEWART, Ga. — The U.S. Army says 3,800 soldiers from Fort Stewart, Georgia, are among additional forces deploying to Europe following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Troops from the Army post southwest of Savannah, Georgia, “will deploy to reassure NATO allies, deter further aggression against NATO member states and train with host-nation forces,” Fort Stewart commanders said in a statement late Thursday.

Fort Stewart is home to the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division, which saw multiple combat deployments during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of the 3rd Infantry soldiers heading to Europe are assigned to the division’s 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team.

“The Raider Brigade is trained and equipped to deter aggression and to reassure and defend our allies,” Col. Pete Moon, the 1st Brigade’s commander, said in prepared statement.

The Georgia-based soldiers appear to be among 7,000 additional U.S. forces deploying to Germany to bolster NATO following the invasion of Ukraine. President Joe Biden ordered the deployments Thursday.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Chinese President Xi Jinping he’s ready to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials.

The Kremlin said in its readout of Friday’s call that Xi underlined that he “views the Russian leadership’s action in the crisis situation with respect.”

In a reference to new Western sanctions against Russia over its invasion in Ukraine, the Kremlin noted that Putin and Xi agreed “it’s inadmissible to use illegitimate sanctions for achieving selfish goals of certain countries.”

Chinese state TV reported that Xi emphasized that China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations.”

___

NEW DELHI — Dozens of parents, relatives and friends of Indian students stranded in Ukraine held a demonstration near the Russian Embassy in New Delhi to demand the students' immediate evacuation.

Police barricaded the roads leading to the embassy on Friday and asked the protesters to meet Indian Foreign Ministry officials to discuss the repatriation of nearly 16,000 Indians, including students.

Some of the demonstrators held video conferencing calls with some of those stuck in metro trains and bomb shelters in Kyiv.

``We are running low on food and water in a crowded bunker,” one of the callers in Ukraine said.

Indian Embassy officials are now traveling to border areas of Ukraine touching Poland, Romania Slovakia and Hungary to facilitate the exit of Indian nationals so that they can be evacuated to India, said foreign ministy official Harsh Vardhan Shringla.

___

BRUSSELS — Germany’s foreign minister said Friday that the European Union will take in all people fleeing Ukraine due to the current conflict.

“We need to do everything to immediately take in the people who are now fleeing bombs, fleeing tanks, that’s also what we’ve been preparing for in recent weeks,” Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters in Brussels.

“We tried everything so this day wouldn’t come,” she said. “And it came because the Russian president chose it, opted for war and against human lives.”

“That’s why we will take in all of the people who are fleeing now,” Baerbock said. “We will bring the people from Ukraine to safety.”

___

BUCHAREST, Romania — Moldova’s national naval agency says a ship in “neutral waters” of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.

The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.

“A fire broke out onboard the ship; the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed,” the agency said in a statement. “The ship’s crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets.”

The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.

Rescue operations were carried out by Ukrainian authorities, the Moldovan agency said.

___

LONDON — An expert in international trade says he thinks world leaders are reluctant to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions because it is the “nuclear option” of sanctions.

Disconnecting Russia from SWIFT to try to force President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine would have major economic costs for western countries, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy.

Lee-Makiyama told the BBC that if Russia were cut off for foreign payments for its gas and oi,l it would quickly start expropriating the 300 billion euros EU investors have plowed into the country.

“It’s a nuclear option that it’s going to basically exterminate yourself and your enemy,” he said.

World leaders, who have so far ruled out military intervention in Ukraine, have few good options for deterring Putin because he knows they fear a direct confrontation with Russia, Lee-Makiyama said.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russia is ready to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send the delegation in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's offer to discuss a non-aligned status for Ukraine.

That indicates Zelenskyy would be willing to negotiate dropping his country’s bid to join NATO, as Russia has demanded.

Before the invasion, the West had rejected the demand. Putin claimed the refusal to discuss keeping Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order a military action in Ukraine to “demilitarize” it.

___

BANGKOK — Myanmar’s ruling military council offered its support Friday for Russia’s attack on Ukraine, while the shadow government leading opposition to army rule condemned Moscow’s action.

A statement by the spokesman for Myanmar’s military government said Russia acted correctly to perpetuate its “sovereignty.”

A text message to Myanmar journalists from Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun also said the invasion demonstrated Russia’s position as a “world power” helping to keep global relations in balance.

Myanmar’s military rulers face armed domestic opposition, and like Russia’s leaders now, are the target of strong sanctions from Western governments seeking a return to democratic rule.

Myanmar’s National Unity Government, established by lawmakers prevented from taking their seats when the army seized power in February last year, deplored Moscow’s action.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania — Lithuania's Radio and Television Commission has temporarily suspended the operation of six Russian-language TV channels for their alleged incitement to war and propaganda.

The six TV channels were taken off the air Friday

Planeta RTR, Rossijya 24, Belarus 24, NTV Mir, RTR Planeta and Rossiya 24 were suspended for five years, and PBK and TVCI for three years, commission Vice Chairman Ricardas Slapsys told the Baltic News Service.

Lithuania, the most southern of the three Baltic nations, borders Russia’s Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south.

Latvia banned several Russian television channels had their right to broadcast in Latvia suspended Thursday for several years.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has taken control of an airport just outside Kyiv, as Kremlin forces bear down on the Ukrainian capital.

The claim could not be independently verified.

Taking possession of the airport in Hostomel, which has a long runway allowing the landing of heavy-lift transport planes, would mean Russia can airlift troops directly to Kyiv’s outskirts.

Hostomel is just 7 kilometers (4 miles) northwest of the city.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel and killed over 200 troops belonging to Ukraine's special forces.

Konashenkov claimed that Russian troops suffered no casualties. That contradicts Ukrainian claims that Russian troops sustained heavy casualties in the fighting there.

___

BERLIN — Germany’s Defense Ministry has confirmed media reports that it is deploying additional military assets to NATO’s eastern flank.

German weekly Der Spiegel reported that the deployments included 150 soldiers and about a dozen Boxer armored fighting vehicles, two ships and anti-missile systems.

Ministry spokesman Christian Thiels declined to say Friday exactly how many soldiers were being deployed. But he confirmed that a navy corvette would leave Saturday for patrols in the Baltic while a frigate will be deployed in the Mediterranean, both under NATO command.

Germany is also assessing whether to deploy Patriot anti-missile systems to an eastern European NATO country, Thiels said.

Decisions on deploying further troops could be expected soon, he added.

___

BEIJING — Chinese state TV says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, that Moscow is willing to negotiate with Ukraine, even as Moscow's forces invade its neighbor.

The report Friday followed a Kremlin announcement that Putin’s government was considering an offer by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to negotiate non-aligned status for his country.

Putin said Moscow “is willing to conduct high-level negotiations with the Ukrainian side,” China Central Television reported on its website.

It gave no indication whether Putin said he was responding to Zelenskyy’s offer or gave any details of what the two sides might negotiate.

Russia complains that the United States and its allies ignored Moscow’s “legitimate security concerns” by expanding the NATO military alliance eastward, closer to Russia’s borders.

Xi said China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations,” CCTV said.

___

ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey’s foreign minister says officials are still assessing a request by Ukraine for Turkey to close to Russian shipping the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea.

Mevlut Cavusoglu warned, however, that under a 1936 convention Ankara may not be able to deny total access to the Russian vessels.

Ukraine on Thursday formally asked Turkey to close the Turkish Straits to Russian warships in line with the Montreux Convention which allows Turkey to restrict the passage of belligerent countries’ warships during times of war. The convention stipulates however, that warships belonging to Black Sea coastal countries can return to their bases.

“If there is a demand for the ships of the warring countries to return to their bases, then (passage) must be allowed,” Cavusoglu was quoted as telling Hurriyet newspaper in an interview.

The minister said Turkish experts were assessing if the current situation amounted to "a state of war.”

___

BERLIN — Germany’s president is appealing to Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop the madness of this war now.”

President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin on Friday said that “we don’t want enmity with the Russian people, quite the contrary, but this wrongdoing cannot go without a clear answer.”

Steinmeier, whose post is largely ceremonial but holds moral authority, said that Germany will do its part in deterring Putin from using force against its NATO allies.

The president, who served twice as Germany’s foreign minister, said that Putin “should not underestimate the strength of democracies” and Germans shouldn’t either.

He said it’s good that people are going out to demonstrate, adding: “The Russian president should not believe for a second that people in Germany and Europe simply accept this brutal violence.”

___

VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.

Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of feeling about Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Vatican officials said they knew of no such previous papal initiative.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted “clearly to express his concern about the war.” Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.

Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.

But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.

___

GENEVA — The U.N. human rights office says it is receiving increasing reports of civilian casualties in Ukraine in the wake of Russia’s military invasion.

Spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani of the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights says its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties. They include 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.

She cautioned Friday that the numbers are “very likely to be an underestimate.”

Shamdasani also said the rights office was “disturbed by the multiple arbitrary arrests” of demonstrators in Russia who on Thursday protested against the conflict.

“We understand more than 1,800 protesters were arrested,” she said, before adding that it was unclear how many might have been released already.

Meanwhile, spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo of the U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, said its latest update had that more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine. She said the agency’s planning figures anticipated that “up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.”

___

LONDON — Latvia’s defense minister is criticizing European nations for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network and refusing to provide weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.

Artis Pabriks’ comments came after the U.S. and European Union stopped short of blocking Russia’s access to the SWIFT payments system when they announced a new round of sanctions late Thursday.

Pabriks also chided fellow EU nations that have refused to provide “lethal aid” to Ukraine, saying only the U.K., Greece, Poland and the Baltic states had done so.

In an interview with the BBC on Friday, Pabriks suggested that many European leaders don’t want to take these steps because they would cause economic hardship for their own countries.

“If you are really not ready yourself to spill blood, at least spill money now,’’ he said. “Do it now, because if you lose Ukraine all European geopolitics will change. … There will be much more pressure on Poland, much more pressure on the Baltics.’’

The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia fear they could be the Kremlin’s next target.

___

DAMASCUS, Syria — Syrian President Bashar Assad is praising Russia’s military incursion into Ukraine and denouncing what he calls western “hysteria” surrounding it.

Assad spoke by phone Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“What is happening today is a correction of history and a restoration of balance which was lost in the world after the breakup of the Soviet Union,” Assad said, according to state-run news agency SANA.

He said confronting NATO expansionism is Russia’s right.

Russia is a main backer of Assad’s government and its military intervention in 2015 in the country’s civil war helped tip the balance of power in his favor.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says it will analyze the Ukrainian president’s offer to discuss a non-aligned status for his country, as a Russian military invasion pushes closer to Kyiv.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he was ready to hold talks on the issue.

Asked about Zelenskyy’s offer, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday described it as “a move in a positive direction.”

He said in a conference call with reporters that “we paid attention to that, and now we need to analyze it.”

But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Zelenskyy “is simply lying” when he offers to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Lavrov said at a briefing that Zelenskyy “missed the opportunity” to discuss a neutral status for Ukraine when Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed it.

Putin says the West left him no option but to invade when it rejected Moscow’s demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO.

___

BRUSSELS — A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: “Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.”

Michel announced the move after a call with Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Michel said Kyiv “is under continued attack by Russian forces” and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary has extended temporary legal protection to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion, as countries in eastern Europe prepare for the arrival of refugees at their borders.

Hungary, which borders Ukraine to the west, has in the past taken a firm stance against all forms of immigration. It has controversially refused to accept refugees and asylum seekers from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

But in a decree published late Thursday, Hungary’s government announced that all Ukrainian citizens arriving from Ukraine, and all third-country nationals legally residing there, would be entitled to protection.

The section applying to third-country nationals makes it possible for non-Ukrainians — for example, Belarussian refugees living in Ukraine — to receive protection in the European Union.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that Hungary will play no part in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but that it would accept refugees arriving at its borders.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has expressed his solidarity with Ukraine in telephone call with the country’s leader.

Johnson’s Downing Street office said Friday that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered an update on Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes.

“The prime minister assured President Zelenskyy that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing,’’ Johnson’s office said in a statement. “He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia’s campaign of violence and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.’’

___

BERLIN — The German government says it has suspended the granting of export credit and investment guarantees for business with Russia.

The Economy Ministry said Friday that the granting of new export credit guarantees and investment guarantees for Russia was suspended on Thursday.

The so-called Hermes credit export guarantees protect German companies from losses when exports aren’t paid for. Investment guarantees are granted by the German government to protect direct investments by German companies from political risk in the countries where they are made.

The Economy Ministry said that new export credit guarantees to the tune of 1.49 billion euros ($1.67 billion) were granted last year for business with Russia. New investment guarantees came in at a fraction of that amount, at 3.75 million euros ($4.2 million).

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland’s Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the country’s land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began.

Before that, there were some 12,000 average daily entries from Ukraine into European Union and NATO member Poland, through land, sea and airport checkpoints, according to Border Guard statistics.

Poland has lifted the requirement of COVID-19 quarantine or vaccination certificates for refugees from Ukraine. A number of reception centers with camp beds, soup kitchens and medical care have been organized in locations close to the border with Ukraine.

___

BEIJING — China is holding back from labeling Russia’s attack on Ukraine an invasion.

At the same time, it is upholding the sanctity of territorial sovereignty, in a nod to its own insistence that Taiwan is part of China.

“The sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and maintained,” China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Friday.

“At the same time, we also see that the issue of Ukraine has its own complex and special historical merits, and we understand Russia’s legitimate concerns on security issues,” he added.

Wang did not answer questions about whether China would recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, in Ukrainian territory claimed by Russia, as independent states.

___

MOSCOW — Russia’s civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British government’s ban on Aeroflot flights.

Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.

It said the measure was taken in response to the “unfriendly decisions” by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has destroyed 118 Ukrainian military assets since the beginning of its assault on its neighbor and as it pushes into the outskirts of Kyiv.

The claim could not be independently verified and was not confirmed by Ukraine amid a flurry of claims and counterclaims by each side.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that among the targets were 11 Ukrainian air bases, 13 command facilities, 36 air defense radars, 14 air defense missile systems, 5 warplanes, 18 tanks and warships.

However, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace rejected Russian claims of success on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, saying it had “failed to deliver” on its day one objectives.

Wallace told Sky News that the Western assessment is that Russia had failed to take its major objectives and is behind on its timetable for advance.

“They’ve lost over 450 personnel,’’ he said.

___

BERLIN — Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has condemned Russia’s attack on Ukraine, calling it “a deep cut in European history after the end of the Cold War.”

Germany’s dpa news agency quoted Merkel saying Friday that there was “no justification for this blatant attack of international law. I condemn it in the sharpest possible manner.”

Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and speaks Russian, was heavily engaged in negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her 16 years in office, which ended in December.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s nuclear energy regulatory agency says that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, after it was seized by the Russian military.

The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said Friday that higher gamma radiation levels have been detected in the Chernobyl zone, but didn’t provide details of the increase.

It attributed the rise to a “disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air.”

Ukrainian authorities said that Russia took the plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle Thursday.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible “provocations.” He insisted that radiation levels in the area have remained normal.

The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan warned “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards, Khan said in a statement Friday.

Khan adds that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Kyiv mayor Vitaly Klitschko said at least three people were injured when a rocket hit a multi-story apartment building in Ukraine's capital on Friday, starting a fire.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the Russian military's claim it is not targeting civilian areas is “a lie.” He said that military and civilian areas in Ukraine are both being hit by Russian attacks.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city; from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014; and from Belarus to the north.

___

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that France and its European allies have decided to “inflict very severe blows on Moscow,” further sanctioning individuals and targeting finance, energy and other sectors. The legal texts for the sanctions will be finalized and submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers later Friday.

Macron also said the EU has decided on economic aid for Ukraine in the amount of 1.5 billion euros ($1.68 billion).

The French president also called the Belorussian government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine, and said it will also be targeted.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — As Russian troops continued pressing their offensive Friday, intense fighting also raged in the country’s east.

Russian troops entered the city of Sumy near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east. The regional governor, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said Ukrainian forces fought Russian troops in the city overnight, but other Russian convoys kept rolling west toward the Ukrainian capital.

“Military vehicles from Sumy are moving toward Kyiv,” Zhivitsky said. “Much equipment has passed through and is heading directly to the west.”

Zhivitsky added that another northeastern city, Konotop, was also sieged. He urged residents of the region to fight the Russian forces.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan issued a statement Friday on Twitter while on a visit to Bangladesh, where he is investigating crimes against Myanmar’s Rohingya minority.

Khan said he alerted “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards," Khan added.

He said that “any person who commits such crimes, including by ordering, inciting or contributing in another manner to the commission of these crimes may be liable to prosecution before the Court.”

Khan added that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: With Zelenskyy and a 2nd Russian plane reportedly shot down. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220225ei2p00mau


Sanctions swing toward Putin himself as Ukraine anger grows
778 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 13:56 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — With Russian President Vladimir Putin the latest target of sanctions over the invasion[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-volodymyr-zelenskyy-boris-johnson-business-08f569df695831ee467979527ea2e241] of Ukraine, diplomatic appeals came second Saturday to imposing financial and military pain on Moscow as global condemnation grew.

The Biden administration said it was sending Ukraine up to $350 million in arms and other defensive supplies from U.S. Department of Defense stockpiles, with another $250 million possible. The Czech Republic and Slovakia said they were sending arms, and Slovakia's defense minister said up to 1,200 foreign troops from other NATO members could be deployed in his country to reassure member countries on the alliance’s eastern flank.

In cities around the world, people spilled into the streets to protest the invasion and the potential for further upheaval. “This war will last, and all the crises that go with it will have durable consequences,” French President Emmanuel Macron warned.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday said the U.S. was preparing individual sanctions on Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, likely to include travel bans. The announcement came after the European Union announced it intended to freeze Putin’s assets, and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told NATO leaders his country would sanction Putin and Lavrov. Canada said it would do the same.

Psaki said President Joe Biden hadn't planned any more direct diplomatic overtures toward Putin, but "it does not mean we have ruled out diplomacy forever.” She said the U.S. would also newly sanction the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which functions as a sovereign wealth fund meant to draw capital into the Russian economy.

The U.S. measures block Putin and Lavrov from access to any assets within reach of U.S. officials, and bar anyone in the United States from doing business with them. Members of Russia’s security council also were sanctioned.

In response on Saturday, the deputy head of Russia’s Security Council, Dmitry Medvedev, said sanctions could offer Moscow a pretext for a review of its ties with the West, suggesting that Russia could cut them altogether. “We may look at each other in binoculars and gunsights,” he said. He also suggested that Russia could opt out of the New START nuclear arms control treaty that limits U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals.

The U.S. and European allies earlier announced sweeping asset freezes and other penalties against Russia’s banks, state-owned enterprises and elites[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-ivanka-trump-joe-biden-sports-business-785172175d5ab4800e2a816b3ae2193d]. On Saturday, triggered by the sanctions, French Marines patrolling the English Channel area intercepted a cargo ship sailing under the Russian flag for an investigation, the Maritime Prefecture said. Spokeswoman Veronique Magnin said it appeared to be the first such action in the Channel.

EU ministers have said further sanctions are possible, including kicking Russia out of SWIFT, the dominant system for global financial transactions. Separately, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Canada supports the removal of Russia from the SWIFT system.

Countries in Asia and the Pacific have joined the U.S., the EU and others in sanctioning Russian banks and leading companies and setting up export controls aimed at starving Russia’s industries and military of semiconductors and other high-tech products.

Australia on Saturday said it is imposing sanctions against all 339 members of the Russian parliament as well as eight Russian oligarchs close to Putin and is considering sanctions against Putin and Lavrov.

Japan and South Korea on Saturday said their foreign ministers had spoken with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. But Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi declined to say whether Japan plans to impose sanctions on Putin or Lavrov. South Korea’s foreign ministry said Blinken thanked South Korea over its willingness to participate in international sanctions against Russia, without details.

China, the only friend[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-business-china-beijing-0cddcb31f04748a3de8f36b5cd1ac7df] that might help Russia blunt the impact of sanctions, has continued to denounce sanctions and blamed the U.S. and its allies for provoking Moscow. Beijing, worried about American power in Asia, has increasingly aligned its foreign policy with Russia to challenge the West.

Russian chess legend and opposition politician Garry Kasparov described sanctions that don't directly hit Putin as merely symbolic.

“As long as he controls hundreds of billions of dollars and looks invincible for his cronies in Russia, I don’t think that any protest on Russian streets will change anything,” Kasparov added in an interview with Sky News.

___

Associated Press journalists around the world contributed.

___

Follow AP’s coverage of the Ukraine crisis at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: with street protests around the world, comment by Slovakia. Trims. Links new photos. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220226ei2q00dw1


The UK ambassador to the UN has said "Russia is isolated" after Moscow vetoed a...
5368 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 22:36 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The UK ambassador to the UN has said "Russia is isolated" after Moscow vetoed a UN Security Council resolution calling on it to stop the invasion of Ukraine and withdraw its troops.

Dame Barbara Woodward said following the vote it was "absurd" for Russia to claim the invasion was in self-defence.

"Russia's only act of self-defence is the vote they have cast against this resolution today," Dame Barbara said.

"Make no mistake: Russia is isolated.

"It has no support for the invasion of Ukraine.

"History will record how we voted today and which countries stood up to be counted in defence of the Charter and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.

"The United Kingdom stands steadfast in support of the Ukrainian people and will hold Russia accountable for its aggression."

Milla Jovovich said she was "torn in two" to watch the horror unfolding in her home country of Ukraine, as violence continued.

"I am heartbroken and dumbstruck trying to process the events of this week in my birthplace of Ukraine. My country and people being bombed," the Resident Evil actress wrote online.

"Friends and family in hiding. My blood and my roots come from both Russia and Ukraine.

"I am torn in two as I watch the horror unfolding, the country being destroyed, families being displaced, their whole life lying in charred fragments around them."

Facebook has said it is prohibiting Russian state media from running any advertising on or monetising from its platform.

The firm's head of security policy, Nathaniel Gleicher, said in a statement: "We are now prohibiting Russian state media from running ads or monetising on our platform anywhere in the world.

"We also continue to apply labels to additional Russian state media.

"These changes have already begun rolling out and will continue into the weekend."

Mr Gleicher added Facebook was "closely monitoring" the situation in Ukraine and would "keep sharing steps we're taking to protect people on our platform".

Joe Biden has signed a memorandum on the provision of up to 600 million dollars (£448 million) in immediate military aid to Ukraine.

The document issued by the White House said Mr Biden made the order under part of the Foreign Assistance Act to "determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to 250 million dollars (£187 million) in assistance without regard to any provision of law".

He also signed it "to direct the drawdown of up to an aggregate value of 350 million dollars (£261 million) in defence articles and services of the Department of Defence, and military education and training, and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown".

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has survived a night of Russian assaults on Kyiv and instructed people not to believe "fake news".

"Good morning everybody. Do not believe fake news. I am here," Mr Zelensky said in Ukrainian in a selfie video posted to social media.

"We will not lay down our weapons. We will defend our Country. Our weapons are our strength. This is our land. Our country. Our children. We will protect all of them," he added in the video, which appeared to be shot in downtown Kyiv.

Armed Forces Minister James Heappey has said that Ukrainian forces defending Kyiv have been putting up "incredible resistance".

Mr Heappey said the situation was "very grave" but that the fighting in the capital was so far confined to "very isolated pockets of Russian special forces and paratroopers".

"The main armoured columns approaching Kyiv are still some way off. That is a testament to the incredible resistance the Ukrainian armoured forces have put up over the last 48 hours or so," he told Sky News.

"Clearly the Russian plan is to take Kyiv but the reality is that the Ukrainians are thwarting them thus far.

"It looks like the Russian plan is nowhere near running to schedule.

"I think that will be a great cause of concern for President Putin and rather points to the fact that there was a lot of hubris in the Russian plan and that he may be awfully advised."

Armed forces minister James Heappey has said the UK is looking to continue to supply weapons to the Ukrainian armed forces.

Mr Heappey said that Defence Secretary Ben Wallace chaired a donors conference of Friday with 25 nations, some of whom pledged to send arms and other aid.

"We know what the Ukrainians want. We are doing our best to get it to them," he told Sky News.

Mr Heappey said the Government was working on plans to support a resistance movement and a Ukrainian government in exile if Kyiv does fall.

"That is a decision for the National Security Council to take but it is something that the Prime Minister has asked us in the Ministry of Defence to look at and plan for," he said.

He said that the West was facing a prolonged period of "acute competition" with Russia as it sought to achieve fundamental change in the country.

"There is a 10, 20-year project where the West will be back into quite acute competition, where imposing cost on Putin and the kleptocrats who surround him so that he fails, and he is seen to fail, and he has no opportunity to anoint his successor, and Russia fundamentally changes as a country as a consequence because the Russian people have had enough of him.

"That is something where the UK and our allies have got time to make good strategic decisions."

A former spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin has claimed that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky wants to provoke the Russian army into killing citizens to get Nato to react.

Sergei Markov, who is now deputy chairman of the Russian Public Forum on International Affairs, told Times Radio on Saturday: "He wants to provoke Russian army to use artillery for the big damages of the Ukrainian citizens."

Asked if he was suggesting that President Zelensky wants the Russian army to kill Ukrainian citizens, Mr Markov said: "Exactly. It is his main political (aim) too."

He added: "That's the major goal now - to invoke Nato to stop Russian army."

Mr Markov also said: "Russian army doesn't want to kill Ukrainian soldiers."

He then claimed that 87% of the Ukrainian army joined the Russian army in Crimea in 2014, and that with the current assault on Ukraine, "a majority of the soldiers with Ukrainian army will make decision to join Russian army".

Armed forces minister James Heappey has said Britain and other Western allies would continue to support the Ukrainians in every way they could.

"The more the Ukrainians successfully resist, the more I think they will be emboldened. People are rallying to the flag. There is every chance President Putin has bitten off more than he can chew," he told ITV.

"We, like Ukraine's other allies in the West, will continue to support them in every way we reasonably can but we have to be very clear-eyed about the size of the Russian force he has amassed against them."

Mr Heappey expressed concern that Mr Putin had gone "all in" on the invasion and warned of more "utterly brutal fighting" ahead.

"I think there is a fanaticism and a fervour in his language that is very concerning. He has gone all in on this," he said.

"He has put a huge proportion of the Russian armed forces into this campaign in Ukraine and I am very concerned that he has backed himself into a corner.

"I think you are going to see more and more utterly brutal fighting and some of Russian and Ukraine's bravest and best are going to lose their lives because of Putin's hubris."

Labour MP Stephen Kinnock, who lived in St Petersburg for three years, said President Vladimir Putin has made a "terrible and deeply damaging strategic miscalculation" and "cannot win in this situation".

The Aberavon MP told BBC Breakfast: "We've got to be ready to be in this for the long haul. There will be a long insurgency against Russia if it does seek to occupy Ukraine and, in the end, Russia will lose that insurgency.

"Mr Putin has made a tremendous and terrible and deeply damaging strategic miscalculation here. He cannot win in this situation and the international community has to stand firm against."

Mr Kinnock also argued that Russian citizens do not want "to be a pariah state", saying "I lived and worked in Russia for three years in St Petersburg and the people there, they want to be a part of the international community.

"They do not want to be a pariah state. They do not want to be isolated. They want to engage with the rest of the world.

"So we have to just keep ratcheting up the pressure on Mr Putin and we have to do more to support the Ukrainian armed forces."

Armed forces minister James Heappey said Britain is continuing to press for Russia to be excluded from the Swift system of international banking payments.

Mr Heappey said it was the "ultimate economic sanction" but that more diplomacy was needed to get international agreement.

"Swift is not a unilateral decision that the UK can take," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

"We will continue to push with every means at out disposal - and we have encouraged parliamentarians to reach to their networks of parliamentarians around Europe - in order to change some minds.

"That really is the ultimate economic sanction. It is the one that the UK Government wants to see enacted.

"It is just clear that there is more diplomacy required before that is going to happen."

Armed forces minister James Heappey said the Ukrainian military was facing a prolonged struggle with the Russians which could carry on for months.

"Nobody should think that this is anywhere near over. What stands in front of Ukraine, its armed forces and very tragically its people, is days, weeks months more of what we have seen over that last 48 hours," he told BBC Breakfast.

"President Putin, if you listen to his speeches, look at his press conferences over the last two or three days, there has been a fanaticism in the language that he used, a fervour in the tone of his voice. He has gone all in on this.

"I am afraid that that means that what is in front of Ukraine is bloody, brutal. We will do everything we can to help them resist but people shouldn't necessarily think that a happy ending is just around the corner.

"This is going to be a long slog. It is going to be brutal. We are going to see some horrendous things on our TV screens."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted: "Yesterday I urged NATO and Nordic partners to do all they can to support Ukraine and Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

"I am pleased even more allies have come forward with defensive and humanitarian aid. We must stand with the Ukrainian people as they defend their country and democracies everywhere."

Tobias Ellwood, Conservative chairman of the Defence Committee, said there are "huge lesson" to be learned in understanding the "wider geopolitical picture that is now changing in front of us".

The former soldier recalled serving in Bosnia, telling ITV News: "Nato wasn't part of Bosnia there, but there was a commitment to European security, and now we are playing catch-up.

"We're actually reacting to events rather than getting ahead of them. And the big question is - when do you stand up to Putin? Do you make sure that you hold him back today?

"Or do you allow him to advance and end up having a bigger battle later on when you realise what his intentions are.

"Things won't stop here. Let's make this very, very clear. Putin's ideological intention to expand his sphere of influence will go way beyond Ukraine."

Tobias Ellwood said there are "many ways" Ukraine can be assisted other than "putting in boots on the ground".

The MP told ITV News: "We need to reconsider this no-fly zone, let's say west of the Dnieper River, because that would change the optics here."

Mr Ellwood added: "If we don't stand our ground now, where will this go? And don't forget there are other adversaries around the world, namely China, watching very carefully how the West reacts here."

He said if the West is seen to be "timid" or "risk-averse" then China "will take full advantage of that weakness too".

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said almost 116,000 people have fled Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Thursday.

It tweeted: "Latest update is that almost 116,000 have fled to neighbouring countries since 24 Feb - mainly Poland, Hungary, Moldova, Slovakia and Romania.

"Numbers are rising."

The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "Russian forces have continued their advance on Kyiv with the bulk of their forces now 30km from the centre of the city.

"Russia has yet to gain control of the airspace over Ukraine, greatly reducing the effectiveness of the Russian Air Force.

"Ukrainian Armed Forces continue to put up staunch resistance across the country.

"Russian casualties are likely to be heavy and greater than anticipated or acknowledged by the Kremlin."

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have said they "stand" with the people of Ukraine as they "bravely fight" for their future.

In a personal tweet signed by the couple, they wrote: "In October 2020 we had the privilege to meet President Zelenskyy and the First Lady to learn of their hope and optimism for Ukraine's future.

"Today we stand with the President and all of Ukraine's people as they bravely fight for that future."

Home Secretary Priti Patel tweeted: "I have cancelled the visas of the Belarusian Men's Basketball Team who were due to play in Newcastle tomorrow night.

"The UK will not welcome the national sports teams of those countries who are complicit in Putin's unprovoked and illegal invasion of £Ukraine."

In Manchester, hundreds gathered in Piccadilly Gardens for a Stand For Ukraine rally.

The crowd, many wearing Ukrainian blue and yellow flags and with traditional flower headbands, sang Ukrainian songs and chanted: "Stop Putin. Stop the war."

Prayers in Ukrainian and English were led by a priest.

Many held placards with slogans including "Help victims in Ukraine", "Stop Russian Hitler" and "Putin lies, Ukraine never dies".

One woman who spoke at the rally in Manchester said her mother was Russian and her father was Ukrainian.

She said she had seen on the news that a missile had hit an apartment building in the district of Kyiv where she grew up.

She told the crowd: "It's happening now and you will be next eventually.

"Kyiv is three hours' flight from Manchester. It is Europe, we are a democratic, peaceful country.

"Why do we have war? It's only because of Putin, who is a complete nut job."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted that he head spoken the Dutch prime minister about the situation in Ukraine: "I spoke to Mark Rutte this afternoon to thank him for strong cooperation in ensuring a supply of defensive aid to Ukraine. We discussed SWIFT and the need for urgent action to exclude Russia.

"The UK and the Netherlands are united in our condemnation of Putin's attack on Ukraine."

The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "The speed of the Russian advance has temporarily slowed likely as a result of acute logistical difficulties and strong Ukrainian resistance.

"Russian forces are bypassing major Ukrainian population centres while leaving forces to encircle and isolate them.

"Overnight clashes in Kyiv are likely to have involved limited numbers of pre-positioned Russian sabotage groups.

"The capture of Kyiv remains Russia's primary military objective."

Sir Keir Starmer has called for the expulsion of Russia's ambassador to the UK following the invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham, the Labour leader said the Government should order Andrei Kelin to leave the country immediately.

"I think the Russian ambassador should be told to leave the country," he said in a pooled clip for broadcasters.

"Russia is invading a European country. It isn't right that he is here. He should be told to go straight away."

Sir Keir said the Government needed to move further and faster on sanctions against Russia.

"We have got to break open these companies that are supporting Putin, anybody who is supporting his regime. So we need to go further and faster on this," he said.

Sir Keir Starmer has said Britain should be prepared to take in Ukrainian refugees fleeing the Russian invasion.

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham, the Labour leader said the Government has "got this one wrong" in continuing to apply existing rules for Ukranians.

"We must help Ukrainian people looking for safety. That is what we have always done as a country in a moment like this," he said in a pooled clip for broadcasters.

"The Government has got this one wrong. They are applying the same rules as they had before."

He called for a "humanitarian approach" with "sanctuary for those who are fleeing from Russian aggression, fleeing from this invasion, fleeing for their lives".

He added: "We must do more in this respect."

Sir Keir Starmer urged the Government to come forward with legislation to expose Russian oligrachs who hide their wealth by buying up property in the UK as quickly as possible.

Announcing the sanctions package in the Commons on Thursday, Boris Johnson said ministers would set out measures before Easter for a register of overseas property ownership.

Following reports that the Government was preparing to fasttrack the legislation, Sir Keir said Labour would support such a move.

"The Government says it is bringing forward primary legislation. My message to them is 'Get on with it'. We will fully support it," he in a pooled clip for broadcasters during a visit to Birmingham.

"It can go through Parliament very, very quickly. We have been calling for this legislation to break open companies to see who the real beneficiaries are for years.

"This will now go through because we will support it but it won't be enforced for months to come so I am frustrated that it has taken this long for the Government to come forward."

Police have intervened after a man holding a Russian flag close to a Ukrainian protest in London was almost punched.

The man, who had an English accent, stood across the road from the Russian embassy and was confronted by a number of protesters.

As police urged him to leave, a woman who was visibly angry shouted: "People are dying how can you support him?"

She raised a fist and swung her arm towards the man before police intervened.

The man put the flag away and left.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he has spoken by telephone with Boris Johnson and expressed gratitude for Britain's support.

Mr Zelensky tweeted: "Grateful to the British Prime Minister for his position, new decisions to enhance the combat capabilities of the Ukrainian army. Agreed on further joint steps to counter the aggressor."

Downing Street said Boris Johnson and President Zelensky "agreed on the need for the international community to isolate Russia completely diplomatically and financially".

In a statement, No 10 said: "The Prime Minister spoke to Ukrainian President Zelenskyy this evening.

"He paid tribute to the incredible heroism and bravery of President Zelenskyy and the Ukrainian people.

"The leaders agreed that President Putin is being met with a greater Ukrainian resistance than he calculated on.

"The Prime Minister updated on the UK's support to Ukraine and the progress rallying international partners to hold Russia to account for their campaign of destruction.

"The leaders agreed on the need for the international community to isolate Russia completely diplomatically and financially. They welcomed the increased willingness to take action on excluding Russia from SWIFT.

"The Prime Minister and President Zelenskyy expressed their mutual concern about the role Belarus is playing as a conduit for President Putin's violence. "

YouTube has announced it is taking action against a number of channels in response to Russia's assault on Ukraine, including restricting access to Russian state-controlled broadcaster RT.

In a statement on Saturday, a spokesperson said: "In light of extraordinary circumstances in Ukraine, we're taking a number of actions.

"We're pausing a number of channels' ability to monetise on YouTube, including several Russian channels affiliated with recent sanctions.

"We will be significantly limiting recommendations to these channels.

"And in response to a government request, we've restricted access to RT and a number of other channels in Ukraine.

"We will continue to monitor new developments and may take further actions."

Speaking at RAF Brize Norton, Boris Johnson said: "Let's be in no doubt, things are not going all the way of President Putin, very far from it.

"The Ukrainians are fighting heroically, and in some places with great success, as many of us thought they would because they're a great country and a very brave country.

"But as you rightly point out, there are some terrible atrocities being committed and there will be some very grim days ahead for Ukraine.

"We've got to do everything we can to change the heavy odds that Ukraine faces and to help them, and so that's why we're sending humanitarian supplies, we're sending financial supplies and military supplies as well.

"The UK was the first European country to send military aid to Ukraine. Last night, many other countries joined in sending, in pledging to send military assistance, you're starting to see that grow."

The Department of Foreign Affairs has told Irish citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Russia.

In an update to travel guidance, the Department said: "Due to the ongoing disruption to flight services to and from Russia, the Department of Foreign Affairs is advising citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Russia at this time.

"Further flight cancellations and uncertainty on travel routes from Russia are expected in the coming days.

"Citizens with plans to depart from Russia should consult closely with their airline and/or travel agent, and consider booking flights sooner than planned, in case of widening disruptions in the coming period."

Boris Johnson said President Putin's engagement in diplomacy was a "charade" and that he has a "weird, semi-mystical view of Ukraine as part of Russia".

Speaking on Saturday night, the Prime Minister said: "I think we have to face the hideous reality that the diplomacy, as far as President Putin was concerned, was a charade.

"He never really intended to alter his course. You read the article that he wrote many months ago - it was clear that he's attached to a weird, semi-mystical view of Ukraine as part of Russia.

"And that is a view that the Ukrainian people fervently, passionately reject and they're showing that they will fight to reject it.

"Our job now is to help them, to help change the very heavy odds they face and that's why we're sending the support their way."

Mr Johnson said: "You ask 'Should we do more?' The answer is yes. And we need to make sure that we apply those much tougher economic sanctions, including Swift, and what's starting to happen is that the horror of what is unfolding in Ukraine is becoming clear to Western audiences, and that is, in turn, putting huge pressure on Western politicians.

"We've got to act together and we've got to do more."

Boris Johnson said there is "fake news" online about the UK not taking refugees.

Asked why the UK is not taking in refugees like some other countries, he told reporters: "Of course we're going to take refugees. This country's had a historic and proud role in taking refugees from all conflicts.

"And if you think what we did in Afghanistan, for instance, the UK was way out in front.

"I'm aware that there's some fake news on the internet about that and I really want to knock that on the head.

"The UK is way out in front in our willingness to help with refugees.

"We've sent 1,000 troops to the theatre, to be ready to help with the influx and of course we will help people fleeing in fear of their lives."

Boris Johnson said the Swift banking system is "incredibly important" for putting economic pressure on Russia.

Asked whether the UK needs to do more to push other countries to ban Russia from Swift, Mr Johnson said: "I think that what you've seen just today is more countries joining the call of the UK to use Swift.

"Swift is the mechanism that stops people making payments to Vladimir Putin's Russia.

"It's incredibly important for tightening the ligature - the economic ligature - around the Putin regime.

"And today you've seen more and more countries, France and others, coming forward to say that they will not block a banning, a boycott of Swift."

Boris Johnson said it is "inconceivable" that sporting relations can continue with Russia under Vladimir Putin.

Asked if the UK should break off sporting connections with Russia following Poland and Sweden's refusal to play the national football team in the World Cup play-offs, Mr Johnson called the situation "sad".

"I mean, it's a sad thing because I don't think we've had a situation like this for a very, very long time," the Prime Minister said.

"But it's inconceivable to me to imagine that normal sporting relations with Putin's Russia can continue."

Asked about whether it is frustrating that countries like China abstained from the UN Security Council vote to condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Boris Johnson said "outrage and disgust" is growing in countries that have so far been "apathetic".

"I think what you're seeing today, and over the last few hours, is a sense around the world that this is a horror that they simply hadn't expected," he said.

"And I think that feeling is strong and growing, not just in countries in the middle ground, but in Russia itself you're starting to see that feeling that this is something unconscionable.

"So I think (in) the countries that have been apathetic on this issue so far, a sense of of outrage and disgust is growing at what the Putin regime is doing in Ukraine.

"In the meantime, the UK is going to do everything we can to help and support our friends in Ukraine."

Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, has condemned the "barbaric actions" during Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Ursula von der Leyen has announced an enhanced package of sanctions against Russia.

In a statement on Saturday, the EU Commission president said: "The Russian army is committing barbaric actions during its invasion of Ukraine.

"It is bombing and launching missiles, killing innocent people.

"At the same time, the entire world is witnessing the determined and brave resistance by the Ukrainian army and population."

The UK has agreed with the EU and US to cut some Russian banks out of the Swift banking system.

A statement issued by the White House said: "We, the leaders of the European Commission, France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States condemn Putin's war of choice and attacks on the sovereign nation and people of Ukraine. We stand with the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people in their heroic efforts to resist Russia's invasion. Russia's war represents an assault on fundamental international rules and norms that have prevailed since the Second World War, which we are committed to defending. We will hold Russia to account and collectively ensure that this war is a strategic failure for Putin.

"This past week, alongside our diplomatic efforts and collective work to defend our own borders and to assist the Ukrainian government and people in their fight, we, as well as our other allies and partners around the world, imposed severe measures on key Russian institutions and banks, and on the architects of this war, including Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"As Russian forces unleash their assault on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities, we are resolved to continue imposing costs on Russia that will further isolate Russia from the international financial system and our economies. We will implement these measures within the coming days.

"Specifically, we commit to undertake the following measures:

"First, we commit to ensuring that selected Russian banks are removed from the SWIFT messaging system. This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally.

"Second, we commit to imposing restrictive measures that will prevent the Russian Central Bank from deploying its international reserves in ways that undermine the impact of our sanctions.

Third, we commit to acting against the people and entities who facilitate the war in Ukraine and the harmful activities of the Russian government. Specifically, we commit to taking measures to limit the sale of citizenship-so called golden passports-that let wealthy Russians connected to the Russian government become citizens of our countries and gain access to our financial systems.

Fourth, we commit to launching this coming week a transatlantic task force that will ensure the effective implementation of our financial sanctions by identifying and freezing the assets of sanctioned individuals and companies that exist within our jurisdictions. As a part of this effort we are committed to employing sanctions and other financial and enforcement measures on additional Russian officials and elites close to the Russian government, as well as their families, and their enablers to identify and freeze the assets they hold in our jurisdictions. We will also engage other governments and work to detect and disrupt the movement of ill-gotten gains, and to deny these individuals the ability to hide their assets in jurisdictions across the world.

"Finally, we will step up or co-ordination against disinformation and other forms of hybrid warfare."

Ms von der Leyen said: "As Russian forces unleash their assault on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities, we are resolved to continue imposing massive costs on Russia that will further isolate Russia from the international financial system and our economies.

"In co-ordination with President Biden, President Macron, Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Prime Minister Draghi as well as Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime Minister Johnson, we considered a significant tightening of our international response.

"The European Union and its partners are working to cripple Putin's ability to finance his war machine."

Ms von der Leyen told the news conference: "I will now propose to EU leaders the following measures.

"First, we commit to ensuring that a certain number of Russian banks are removed from Swift. This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally.

"Swift is the world's dominant global interbank payment system. Cutting banks off will stop them from conducting most of their financial transactions worldwide and effectively block Russian exports and imports.

"Second, we will stop Putin from using his war chest. We will paralyse the assets of Russia's central bank. This will freeze its transactions and it will make it impossible for the central bank to liquidate assets.

"And finally, we will work to prohibit Russian oligarchs from using their financial assets on our markets. All of these measures will significantly harm Putin's ability to finance his war and they will have an eroding, a severely eroding, impact on his economy.

"Putin embarked on a path aiming to destroy Ukraine but what he's also doing, in fact, is destroying the future of his own country."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220226ei2q000b5


Dutch to send anti-tank weapons to Ukraine, may send troops to Slovakia
302 字
2022 年 2 月 27 日
DutchNews.nl
NEWDU
英文
Copyright 2022 DutchNews - All rights reserved
The Netherlands has agreed to send 40 Panzerfaust 3 anti-tank weapons and 400 missiles to Ukraine on top of the 200 Stinger air defence systems and other equipment which have already been agreed.

The Netherlands is also looking into the possibility of contributing both Patriot weapon systems and troops to the new Nato battle group in Slovakia, together with Germany, defence minister Kasja Ollongren told MPs on Saturday.

The aim is to further strengthen Nato's collective deterrent and defence function on the eastern flank of the region and reassure Nato allies in the region, Ollongren said.

The Patriot is a medium-range surface-to-air guided weapon system which is used to take out planes and helicopters, as well as ballistic and cruise missiles.

Meanwhile, the EU, US, Canada and UK have agreed to cut a number of Russian banks out of the Swift international payment system, in what is being seen as the toughest western sanction so far.

But the Dutch cabinet and a number of political parties, including the ruling VVD and D66, would like to go further and completely decouple Russia from the system.

Sanctions imposed so far are already beginning to have an impact. Dutch flag carrier KLM has cancelled all flights to and from Russia for the next seven days as a result of the sanctions.

The sanctions mean planes can no longer transport spare parts and that means ‘we cannot guarantee that flights to and over Russia can return safely,’ KLM said in a statement.

KLM normally flies across Russia to reach China, South Korea and Japan and these services will now use alternative routes, the airline said.

On Sunday, the Netherlands said it was closing its airspace to Russian planes.

Dutch News BV

文件 NEWDU00020220227ei2r00001


The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in...
12975 字
2022 年 2 月 28 日 21:31 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "The bulk of Putin's ground forces remain more than 30km to the north of Kyiv their advance having been slowed by Ukrainian forces defending Hostomel airfield, a key Russian objective for day one of the conflict.

"Heavy fighting continues around Chernihiv and Kharkiv however both cities remain under Ukrainian control.

"Logistical failures and staunch Ukrainian resistance continue to frustrate the Russian advance.

"Despite continued attempts to supress details of the conflict from the Russian population, the Russian Armed Forces has for the first time been forced to acknowledge suffering casualties."

Russian President Vladimir Putin's nuclear warning is a "big attempt to distract away from his troubles in Ukraine", the Defence Secretary has said.

Ben Wallace did not rule out Mr Putin launching a nuclear attack, and was asked on Sky News whether the Russian leader was "crazy enough" to start a nuclear conflict.

Mr Wallace told Sky News: "I think he has certainly done a lot of irrational things recently."

He added: "I think I'm not going to speculate on what he would or wouldn't do, but that's why we all keep our deterrents at a state of readiness in the West."

Ben Wallace said there were "better ways" to help Ukraine than travelling to join the fighting, for those in the UK without military experience.

The Defence Secretary was asked about comments made by Foreign Secretary Liz Truss on Sunday, where she supported anyone who wished to travel to the country to help fight the Russian invaders.

Mr Wallace told Sky News Ms Truss was right that it was a "just cause", but he said: "If you're keen to help and you're a United Kingdom citizen, come and join our armed forces."

He said: "Look, there are people who will go... I think what I would say is unless you are properly trained, unless you are a - you know - experienced member of an armed forces, I think there are better ways for you to contribute to the security of Ukraine."

The Treasury said the UK would strengthen sanctions by targeting Russia's central bank.

The Government will "take all necessary steps to bring into effect restrictions to prohibit any UK natural or legal persons from undertaking financial transactions involving the (Russian central bank), the Russian National Wealth Fund, and the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation", the Treasury said.

Chancellor Rishi Sunak said: "These measures demonstrate our determination to apply severe economic sanctions in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"We are announcing this action in rapid co-ordination with our US and European allies to move in lockstep once more with our international partners, to demonstrate our steadfast resolve in imposing the highest costs on Russia and to cut her off from the international financial system so long as this conflict persists."

Ben Wallace said the announcements about UK visas already made for Ukrainians were only "a first step".

"We're absolutely looking at all the different range of options we can apply to welcome Ukrainians in need," the Defence Secretary told Sky News.

"The first step is to make sure that Ukrainians who have family here - either settled or dual nationals - that they can come and join them.

"But the second step we will look at (is) about what we do with the refugee flows across the board."

He said the Government would "make decisions in the near future".

Russian forces in Ukraine are "strung out" and "behind schedule", the Defence Secretary has said.

Ben Wallace told Times Radio that President Putin "convinced himself that all these people would somehow welcome them with Russian flags and thank them for being great liberators".

But instead the Ukrainian resistance had made these plans "go awry".

Ben Wallace defended the funding given to British armed forces.

The Defence Secretary said there was confusion between a reduction in the number of soldiers, and cuts in defence overall.

He told Times Radio: "We've got the biggest defence spending increase since the Cold War."

Mr Wallace said the priorities of the armed forces reflected the threats present.

The Russian offensive in Ukraine is likely to become "more violent", the Defence Secretary said.

Ben Wallace told BBC Breakfast that although the Ukrainians were putting up "a very strong fight" the reality was they were going up against "the overwhelming scale of the Russian Federation Army".

He said of Russia: "They are behind schedule, they are taking significant casualties and they are feeling public rejection in parts of the Russian system itself; we've seen many protests.

"But the Russian handbook is to then get more violent and commit more forces because fundamentally in the Russian, sort of, doctrine the lives of their own soldiers matter much less than in other armed forces.

"So we have to brace ourselves for what may come next, which could be ruthless, indiscriminate bombing of cities and propelling forward of soldiers and high casualty levels, and that's going to be horrific."

Vladimir Putin's nuclear warning is part of a "battle of rhetoric", the Defence Secretary said.

Ben Wallace told BBC Breakfast that he understood the concerns about the warning made by the Russian leader, and revealed his own 12-year-old son called him worried about the step.

But he said: "We don't see or recognise in the sort of phrase or the status he described as anything that is a change to what they have currently as their nuclear posture.

"This is predominantly about Putin putting it on the table just to remind people, remind the world, that he has a deterrent."

He added: "We will not do anything to escalate in that area, we will not do anything to feed any miscalculation, we take it very, very seriously.

"But at the moment this is a battle of rhetoric that President Putin is deploying, and we just have to make sure we manage it properly."

Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat said minister had indicated the UK is "likely" to follow the EU in taking in Ukrainian refugees for up to three years.

The Conservative MP said he had talked with members of Government who were "hopeful" the policy on taking in Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion would be reviewed within the coming days.

Asked whether the UK Government had gone far enough in offering sanctuary to refugees, Mr Tugendhat told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I've been speaking to ministers this morning and I can tell you there are many who are hopeful that this will be something that's reviewed in the coming days."

Asked about the EU's announcement that member countries would grant asylum to Ukrainian refugees for up to three years, Mr Tugendhat said: "I suspect that's likely to be where we end up to be honest."

"I think there's a definite opportunity to be generous," he added.

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he does not "want to see British people killed any more than I want to see Ukrainians" as he urged people in the UK not to join the fighting.

Mr Wallace, who served in the Scots Guards, said although he would "always fight for my country", he would not head to Ukraine as a private citizen now to take part in the conflict.

He joked that he would "probably be reduced by now to be in charge of, at my age, the Home Guard or something".

But he said the situation in Ukraine was "very dangerous" and that citizens should find other ways to support the invaded country.

Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat has said Russia sees battlefield nuclear weapons as simply "a bigger bang" and could give a military order to use them.

The Conservative MP told the BBC's Radio 4 Today programme: "The Russian military doctrine doesn't work in the same way as the Nato military doctrine. They do assume that they may use battlefield nuclear weapons and they see them as just a, if you'll excuse the expression, a bigger bang. They don't treat fallout in the same way we do."

He added that although the situation was "concerning," it was not unprecedented for Russia to threaten nuclear action.

"That said, Russia has frequently threatened nuclear deployments in the past," he said.

"This is not unusual but at the same time it is concerning and it is not impossible a Russian military order to use battlefield nuclear weapons could be given."

Shares in BP slumped sharply after the markets opened lower again in London.

The oil giant initially dropped by as much as 7%, before moving back to roughly 4% lower at 363p per share following its decision to sell its nearly 20% stake in Russian oil business Rosneft.

The FTSE 100 moved 1.02% - or 79.3 points - lower to 7,412.4 points shortly after the markets opened.

Ireland's Foreign Affairs Minister has said the country will send around nine million euros' worth of non-lethal equipment to Ukraine as part of an EU fund.

"Our money will be used for non-lethal weapons - things like helmets, protection vests, medical kits, fuel," Simon Coveney told RTE radio.

"I think the European Union is right to intervene and support the Ukrainian military who are under enormous pressure at the moment.

"I think if the European Union can't take a stand, well, then I think we have to question the moral substance of the European Union."

Mr Coveney also indicated that Ireland might move to expel some Russian diplomats, but ruled out expelling the ambassador.

"The expulsion of diplomats or Russian staff in embassies is quite a significant thing to do. It sends a very strong signal and Russia will respond in kind.

"I think it's likely that something will happen in that space, but we do need to be targeted. We need to bear in mind the interests of Irish citizens, both in Russia and across Ukraine."

Ben Wallace said he has "no doubt" that Britain will do more to help Ukrainian refugees.

The Defence Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the UK has a "very generous" track record in helping those in need of aid.

"I think what I would say is, you know, our track record so far, both with Afghans and (the) Arap scheme, and indeed with the Hong Kong nationals who were suffering persecution, has been actually very generous," he said.

"So there's no reason to doubt we won't continue on that path."

He added that it is not yet clear whether the European Union's approach will be to support refugees on the border, with the hope they will be able to return to Ukraine soon, but discussions are continuing.

Russia should be banned from all international sporting and cultural events, shadow culture secretary Lucy Powell has said.

The Labour MP told Sky News: "We need to send a clear and categoric message that Russia from now on will be fully excluded, fully boycotted from all international sporting and cultural events."

Sports bodies such as Uefa and "to some degree" Fifa have started to make "moves in the right direction" to stop Russia's involvement, but a blanket ban is needed "without delay", she said.

With forthcoming competitions such as the World Cup and the European Women's Football Championship, "it shouldn't be a case that Russia can still take part albeit without displaying its country's name", she added.

Ms Powell told the programme: "We now need to see a full and clear categoric signal so that (President Vladimir) Putin, who takes these occasions very seriously when he is hosting or participating in these events, he needs to feel the full force of that where it hurts, and it will send a strong signal to the Russian people as well that they need to stand up to Putin because they will no longer be able to take pride in their country taking part in such events."

She added that Russia is still hosting international volleyball and swimming competitions later this year.

The UK needs a "radical rethink" of its foreign and defence policy following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, shadow culture secretary Lucy Powell has said.

Describing the current situation as "one of the most terrifying eras of my lifetime", she told Sky News: "We didn't ever think, as a generation, that we would see such a breach of those international norms we have been living with for decades with an illegal invasion of a European country on our doorstep by Russia - that is going to require a radical rethink in terms of our public policy, foreign policy and defence policy and so on.

"I think the UK, Nato, the West - we are really waking up to that new threat.

"We have a united agenda here now. We have seen tough action but it could be tougher still.

"We want the UK Government and we want other governments to go further when it comes to those economic sanctions tackling the oligarchs that take safe haven in our country, when it comes to things like sporting and cultural sanctions, and also when it comes to increasing that military aid directly into Ukraine so the Ukrainian people can defend themselves."

Life has been "a rollercoaster" over the past few weeks, according to a UK expat who is now in Poland after deciding it was too dangerous to stay with his family in Kyiv.

Stuart McKenzie told Sky News he initially wanted to stay and "support Ukraine" but decided with his wife that "if there was any danger to our children - that is the point we would have to leave the city".

They left at 4.30am and could hear "bombs dropping in Kyiv" as they went.

Mr McKenzie, who said the Polish have been "fantastic and very flexible" in its support of the Ukrainian people, told the programme: "Everything is so fluid. We do not have any medium or long-term goals - it is just all about survival. It is about getting the people we love out of the country.

"There was a tsunami of refugees at the border right now desperate to get out. It is getting more and more difficult every hour.

"People cannot afford to keep their cars warm because they can't afford to spend the fuel to turn on the engines and to do that for three or four nights in a row with children and elderly.

"My brother has seen someone who has passed away because they were elderly and just died of cold. It is a terrible situation."

Britain is "on the back foot" in helping Ukraine's refugees and "the Government just needs to step up and support people who are fleeing war and terror," the chairwoman of the Public Accounts Committee has said.

Meg Hiller, the Labour MP for Hackney South and Shoreditch, told Sky News: "I think the EU has set the tone here and Britain is on the back foot.

"Britain have done the same with Afghanistan in making it hard for family members to join.

"It needs to understand that family members are one of the easiest groups to get into the country, with support here already embedded.

"People have got homes, jobs and money to support their family members but it could go much further," Dame Meg added.

"It needs to follow what the EU is doing and we hope, of course, that these refugees will only be temporarily here.

"They want to go back to Ukraine once we hope this conflict is over. In the meantime, the Government just needs to step up and support people who are fleeing war and terror."

(Corrected repetition, amends spelling of surname in par 2. First ran at 1154)

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has claimed that Vladimir Putin placed nuclear deterrence forces on high alert after statements from Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.

According to the Interfax news agency, Mr Peskov told a press briefing: "Statements were made by various representatives at various levels on possible altercations or even collisions and clashes between Nato and Russia.

"We believe that such statements are absolutely unacceptable.

"I would not call the authors of these statements by name, although it was the British foreign minister."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is due to make a statement to MPs on sanctions at 3.30pm, the House of Commons has said.

The Irish premier has cast doubt on the idea that Ukraine may be able to join the EU with immediate effect.

Speaking in Dublin, Micheal Martin said: "I don't know whether it can be done immediately.

"But I certainly would be a proponent and supporter of accelerating it and making it very clear that they can become members of the European Union.

"I've always favoured the acceleration of the European perspective for countries in our neighbourhood."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng will also make a statement on the economic crime measures, the Commons said.

The Taoiseach has said that the decision by Ireland to fund items such as PPE, medical equipment and supplies for Ukraine, as part of a wider EU package, does not undermine the country's longstanding military neutrality.

"Our contribution to the non-lethal strand of that peace facility does not undermine our military neutrality," Micheal Martin told reporters in Dublin.

"We are not politically neutral, and have never been politically neutral in the sense that we uphold democratic values and democratic principles."

An ally of Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has struck back at the Kremlin's claims her remarks played a role in Vladimir Putin ordering Russia's nuclear deterrent on high alert.

"Nothing Liz has said warrants that sort of escalation. It's clearly designed to distract from the situation on the ground in Ukraine," the ally said.

"The Foreign Secretary has always talked about Nato in the context of it being a defensive alliance. Her point is that we stand by Article 5, and that we must do everything we can to help Ukraine short of putting boots on the ground.

"We take it very seriously and want to keep the situation calm."

Boris Johnson will travel to Poland and Estonia for meetings with his counterparts and Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg on Tuesday, Downing Street has said.

Downing Street has said the sweeping sanctions brought in over Russia's invasion of Ukraine are designed to "bring down the Putin regime".

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister's view is that Putin's regime, and Putin, must be treated like a pariah state and businesses should think very carefully if they are still continuing to do anything that props up the Putin regime.

"The United Kingdom, the Prime Minister, is very clear that we do not want to unnecessarily inflict damage on the Russian people, many of whom are bravely taking to the streets to protest this violence, this invasion.

"But the measures we're introducing, that large parts of the world are introducing, are to bring down the Putin regime, and we think anyone who is actively seeking to support any elements of the Putin regime should think very carefully."

Pressed whether the measures are intended and provoking a regime change, he said: "Yes, the sanctions we've introduced, the widespread sanctions, aim to inflict financial pain on Putin and his regime to stymie the Russia war machine as it attempts to subjugate a democratic European country."

Downing Street has effectively contradicted Foreign Secretary Liz Truss after she said she would support Britons who chose to help Ukrainian troops fight Russia.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We think the best way we can help Ukraine right now is by ensuring Putin fails. There are a number of ways Brits can show their support for that, and the Ukrainian embassy in London is putting out information about how British can support.

"We fully recognise the strength of feeling about British people wanting to support the Ukrainians following the Russian invasion. There's advice up on travelling to Ukraine, we currently advise against travel to Ukraine."

Downing Street has said Priti Patel will say more on further actions to help Ukrainian refugees flee Ukraine.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We've set out further measures last night but we will be doing even more, with the Home Secretary expected to say a little more in the House later today.

"As the Prime Minister has said, we will go further than even what was announced yesterday, there will be further support as you would expect for those who are fleeing the violence."

Boris Johnson opened Cabinet by saying Vladimir Putin had made a "colossal mistake" believing his troops would be "garlanded with roses" by Ukrainians.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister said it is becoming clearer with each day that Putin had made a colossal mistake believing that the guns of his tanks would be garlanded with roses when instead the Ukrainian people had put up a fierce resistance in defence of their homeland.

"He said latest intelligence suggested Putin's advances had been hampered by logistical problems and the heroic efforts of the Ukrainian military who are inflicting significant casualties on Russian troops."

Media mogul Evgeny Lebedev has used The Evening Standard newspaper to appeal to Vladimir Putin to stop the invasion of Ukraine.

Writing in the newspaper, which he owns, the crossbench peer - addressing Mr Putin - said: "I plead with you to use today's negotiations to bring this terrible conflict in Ukraine to an end."

In a statement published alongside a photograph of a paramedic performing CPR on a girl injured by shelling, Lord Lebedev said: "On this page are the final minutes of a six-year-old child fatally injured by shells that struck her Mariupol apartment block on Sunday.

"She is still wearing her pink jacket as medics fight to save her. But it is too late. Other children, and other families, are suffering similar fates across Ukraine.

"As a Russian citizen I plead with you to stop Russians killing their Ukrainian brothers and sisters."

"As a British citizen I ask you to save Europe from war. As a Russian patriot I plead that you prevent any more young Russian soldiers from dying needlessly. As a citizen of the world I ask you to save the world from annihilation."

Adding to the account of the Cabinet meeting, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said of Mr Johnson: "He said Putin had also underestimated Western unity and the strength of the sanctions his action could lead to.

"The Prime Minister said Putin must fail in his attempts to subjugate Ukraine and the UK would continue its efforts in three main areas to achieve this: economically, diplomatically and militarily."

Mr Johnson will press for Russia to be cut out of the Swift international payment system "completely", with the spokesman adding: "Further sanctions on Russian businesses and individuals will be introduced shortly."

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Cabinet was updated by the chair of the Joint Intelligence Committee and the Chief of the Defence staff who "pointed to the discontent among many of the Russian people including an anti-war petition that has attracted around a million signatures".

Downing Street said Home Office minister Kevin Foster was right to delete his tweet suggesting the seasonal worker scheme was a route for Ukrainian people to flee war.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "I think that tweet was rightly deleted, I think the UK has a proud history of supporting those in need. We've done that with Afghanistan and elsewhere and we will continue to do that."

Not waiving visa requirements for people fleeing the Russian invasion in Ukraine risks being "embarrassing for the UK", Scotland's First Minister has said.

Nicola Sturgeon has voiced her support for allowing people into the country allowing for "the paperwork (to) be sorted out later on", and has now called on the Prime Minister to step in.

"I think the UK's current position on refuge for people fleeing from Ukraine is unacceptable and if it doesn't change and change substantially very soon, it risks - at a time when we should be building maximum unity - being embarrassing for the UK," she said during a visit to Aberdeen.

"I am calling on the Prime Minister, I am appealing to the Prime Minister to follow the example of Ireland, follow the example of the entire European Union and have a situation, effectively, where anyone from Ukraine who is seeking refuge in the UK is allowed entry to the UK with no visa requirements and the paperwork can be sorted later on.

"The position announced by the Prime Minister last night restricting that kind of approach not even just to family members of people already here but to immediate family members is woefully inadequate.

"It doesn't meet the moment, this is a time to step up and do everything we can to support Ukrainians and I hope we will see significant movement from the UK Government over the course of today."

Downing Street suggested law firms seeking to protect Russian oligarchs from sanctions could themselves be targeted with strict measures.

"We will certainly keep all options under review," the Prime Minister's official spokesman said.

"This is an incredibly serious situation and we want to take all possible steps to ratchet up the pressure on Putin and his regime to get him to step back from this path.

"Individuals or businesses that are seeking to facilitate that regime and Putin's actions, to continue down this path of violence, we think should step back from that as well."

The spokesman said it was "not helpful to name individual businesses" but "clearly I think it's important everyone thinks carefully about how they may be, even inadvertently, supporting a country or a regime which has invaded another democratic country".

Boris Johnson does not believe football's ruling body has gone far enough to sanction the Russian team.

Fifa stopped short of excluding Russia from the men's World Cup play-offs due to take place next month, instead ordering the team to play on neutral territory, behind closed doors and as the Football Union of Russia.

"The Prime Minister wants Fifa to take the strongest possible action on this and doesn't think their current measures go far enough," Mr Johnson's official spokesman said.

"I think anyone seeing the situation and the horrific scenes we see on the ground would expect a body like Fifa to do more."

The spokesman said Mr Johnson "wholeheartedly welcomes" the Football Association's confirmation that England will not play Russia.

"We do think that Russia should be cut out not just economically but culturally as well to further up the pressure on Putin."

No 10 said the Prime Minister's official spokesman "misspoke" when he said Western sanctions "are to bring down the Putin regime".

The spokesman went on to say: "We're not seeking anything in terms of regime change. What we're talking about here clearly is how we stop Russia seeking to subjugate a democratic country."

Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle, opening the sitting in the Commons, said: "Before we begin today's business, I wish to thank (Chris Bryant, Labour MP for Rhondda) for withdrawing his invitation to the Russian ambassador to address the APPG (all-party parliamentary group) on Russia.

"I was very uneasy about the visit and did not think it appropriate to invite a Russian official who had said only weeks before that there would be no invasion."

Sir Lindsay added MPs "stand in solidarity" with Ukraine and its people - and the country's flag has been raised at the Commons.

The One Nation Caucus of Tory MPs has written to Boris Johnson calling for him to do more to help Ukrainians fleeing the fighting.

Former Cabinet ministers Sir Robert Buckland, Jeremy Hunt and Matt Hancock were among senior MPs to put their names to the letter calling for a "flexible and pragmatic approach" to allow Ukrainians to seek temporary refuge in the UK.

The 38 MPs said: "We need to act now and we need to act decisively.

"We urge the UK Government to provide as much support as possible to our European partners who are currently the first safe havens for Ukrainian refugees - namely Poland, Moldova, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia.

"We also hope our ministers will seek a flexible and pragmatic approach to those Ukrainians wishing to seek temporary refuge in the UK until it is safe to return to their lives in their home country.

"It is clear that this is not another migration crisis; this is a crisis of war. This should not be business as usual, we need sincere and immediate support for the Ukrainian people.

"The United Kingdom cannot flag or fail, our message must be clear: Ukrainian victims of war seeking refuge are welcome."

Nicola Sturgeon has dismissed claims that Russia put its nuclear weapons on high alert because of comments by Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.

The Kremlin claimed that Vladimir Putin raised the alert level of Russia's nuclear deterrent after "absolutely unacceptable" remarks by Ms Truss.

Reacting to the claim, Scotland's First Minister said Mr Putin was solely responsible for the "despicable" threat.

Ms Sturgeon tweeted: "Whatever political disagreements any of us have with Liz Truss - and I have many deep differences with her - we should not fall for this transparent Russian attempt to divert.

"The only person responsible for Putin's despicable nuclear threat is Putin."

Boris Johnson spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Monday afternoon, committing to send more military support "in the coming hours and days".

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The President updated the Prime Minister on the Ukrainian resistance to the ongoing Russian invasion. The Prime Minister commended his bravery and that of the Ukrainian people.

"The leaders categorically condemned the barbaric airstrikes being carried out by Russia against innocent civilians, including children.

"The Prime Minister updated President Zelensky on UK military support being sent to Ukraine and committed to sending more in the coming hours and days."

The Government will aim to "learn from best practice" in immigration law after "recent days" in which the Republic of Ireland was able to easily offer asylum to Ukrainians fleeing war.

SNP MP Martin Docherty-Hughes (West Dunbartonshire) said: "It is often overlooked that this political stage shares a common travel area with our neighbours across the Irish Sea.

"I daresay from citizenship frameworks to asylum policy this Government has a lot of learn from Ireland about implementing humane and just policy for those coming to the UK.

"Can I ask the minister what steps their department is taking, if any, in recent days to learn from best practice seen in the Republic of Ireland in terms of their legislative frameworks for citizenship?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "We always look at the practices in other countries. I would point out things like our visitor route is more generous than the equivalent in the Republic of Ireland.

"Actually, I am meeting an Irish minister later today. But we are looking at how we can amend nationality law to make it slightly easier in terms of processes that we no longer need to look into people's past migration history when we have already recently done that."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster, when challenged in the Commons, did not apologise for a tweet suggesting the seasonal worker scheme was a route for Ukrainian people to flee war, as Labour hit out at Government "incompetence".

Shadow Home Office minister Stephen Kinnock said Labour supports the calls the Welsh and Scottish governments have made "to offer sanctuary to Ukrainians who are fleeing the horrors of war".

He said: "The UK Government's response on this matter has once again demonstrated the toxic combination of incompetence and indifference that are the hallmarks of this Home Secretary and her ministerial team."

He criticised Mr Foster's now-deleted tweet as "the modern-day equivalent of let them eat cake" and asked for him to "unconditionally apologise", and offer "swift, well-managed and safe sanctuary to these victims of Putin's barbarity who require our support".

Mr Foster did not directly respond to the request for an apology but said: "I'm interested to contrast those comments to what the Ukrainian ambassador said yesterday."

He said the Home Secretary will "shortly announce more" and added, "it was very useful to have a constructive conversation with the Scottish Government on Friday".

The SNP said the UK Government is "alone amongst our European allies in asking Ukrainians to jump through visa hoops to reach sanctuary here".

SNP home affairs spokesperson Stuart C McDonald said in the Commons: "The minister will have heard loud and clear during that call with Neil Gray on Friday that the Scottish Government fully supports replicating the European model and lifting visa requirements for Ukrainian nationals now.

"The UK Government is now alone amongst our European allies in asking Ukrainians to jump through visa hoops to reach sanctuary here.

"It is even more alone in legislating to criminalise, marginalise and impoverish those who seek asylum through its anti-refugee bill. Surely basic human decency requires an urgent rethink on both those counts?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster said the Home Secretary "will shortly say a bit more on what we're looking to do around Ukrainians".

He added: "One thing that would certainly help us be able to support more of those seeking asylum in this country is if 31 out of 32 local authority areas in Scotland weren't refusing to be a dispersal area, including his own."

Home secretary Priti Patel told MPs: "Putin's war on Ukraine is monstrous and unjustified."

She said: "Through this extension alone I can confirm that an additional 100,000 Ukrainians will be able to seek sanctuary in the UK, with access to work and public services.

"We are enabling Ukrainian nationals already in the UK, giving them the ability to switch free of charge into a points-based immigration route or through the family visa route.

"We are extending visas for (Ukraine) temporary workers in some sectors and they can now stay until at least December 2022."

Home secretary Priti Patel told MPs: "Our new route will continue to keep pace with the developing situation on the ground and so far has already supported hundreds of British nationals and their families resident in Ukraine to leave.

"The UK visas and immigration staff continue to work around the clock to assist them."

She added: "We are in direct contact with individuals and we've also lowered various requirements and salary thresholds so that people can be supported.

"Where family members of British nationals do not meet the usual eligibility criteria, but pass security checks, UK visas and immigration will give them the permission to enter the UK outside the rules for 12 months and is prioritising all applications.

"Giving British nationals and any person settled in the UK the ability to bring over their immediate Ukrainian family members."

Priti Patel said Ukraine has requested that the Russian government be suspended from its membership of Interpol, adding: "We'll be leading all international efforts to that effect."

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: "The Home Secretary has just said she is announcing a bespoke humanitarian route but it's extremely unclear from what she's said what the details actually are or who it will apply to."

Labour former minister Chris Bryant also told Home Office questions: "Will the Home Secretary publish her review into the tier one gold-plated visas? Will she suspend all tier one visas for people who have connections with the Putin regime?

"Will she also look into the veracity of the applications for British citizenship by Russian oligarchs who are connected with Putin?"

Ms Patel replied in the Commons: "I think (Mr Bryant) knows my view and position on this, and, of course, the answer is yes."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said that the situation is "fluid" but as of Monday President Vladimir Putin has not taken any major cities.

Updating the House on the United Kingdom's support for Ukraine in the face of Mr Putin's "pre-meditated, pre-planned and barbaric invasion", Ms Truss said: "Ukraine has suffered horrific attacks, missiles and air strikes who've torn through apartment blocks.

"Tanks have rolled into once peaceful cities, innocent people, including children who've lost their lives. The situation is fluid.

"But as of today Putin has not taken any major cities. Their advance has been slowed by Ukraine's fierce resistance."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion is "not proceeding to plan".

She said: "He expected to take cities quickly. He expected Ukraine to retreat and he expected the West to be divided.

"Instead, his forces were met by the heroic heroism of President Zelensky and the resolute determination of the Ukrainian people.

"He has been met by a united West, together with our friends around the world, and we have taken decisive action.

"Today we have acted with the US, the EU, Japan and Canada to cut Russia's central bank off from our markets. The rouble has fallen by over 40% as a result, as much as 250 billion dollars have been wiped off the Russian stock market and today their stock market is closed."

Telling the Commons she is "determined to go much, much further" with actions against Russia, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said she would sanction the country's largest bank with a new law.

Ms Truss told MPs: "Today I can inform the House I will be laying two new pieces of sanctions legalisation.

"The first introduces a set of new powers against Russia's financial sector. It includes powers to prevent Russian banks from clearing payments in sterling.

"With over 50% of Russian trade denominated in dollars or sterling, our co-ordinated action with the United States will damage Russia's ability to trade with the world.

"As soon as this legislation comes into force, we will apply it to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank."

The UK and Western allies will have to undergo "some economic hardship as a result of our sanctions", Liz Truss has said.

The Foreign Secretary told the Commons: "The days ahead are likely to prove tougher still. The UK and our allies will have to undergo some economic hardship as a result of our sanctions.

"But our hardships are nothing compared to those endured by the people of Ukraine.

"Casualty numbers are rising and over 300,000 people have already been displaced. This is a struggle for Ukraine's freedom and self-determination, but it is also a struggle for freedom and democracy everywhere. And for a survival of a Europe whole and free."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss confirmed she would sanction a further three Russian banks in light of the invasion of Ukraine.

"I will also be imposing a full asset freeze on three further banks," Ms Truss told the Commons, naming "Russia's national development bank" among the newly-sanctioned institutions.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said new legislation will isolate Russian companies from access to UK capital markets and ban exports to Russia across a range of "critical sectors".

She said in the Commons that new legislation "will prevent the Russian state from raising debt here. And it will isolate all Russian companies - that's over three million businesses - from accessing UK capital markets".

She said a second piece of legislation "will ban exports to Russia across a range of critical sectors. This includes high-end technological equipment" including marine and navigation equipment which "will blunt Russia's military industrial capabilities and act as a drag on Russia's economy for years to come".

Ms Truss said: "I appreciate the consequences of this step for British people and British businesses operating in Russia."

She said the Government will offer "advice and guidance" to affected UK businesses and consular staff will continue to support British nationals in Russia and Ukraine.

In an update to its travel advice, the Foreign Office website said: "The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advises against all travel to the whole of Russia due to the lack of available flight options to return to the UK, and the increased volatility in the Russian economy."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK will "keep ratcheting up our response" to Russia.

She said: "More legislation will follow in coming weeks in sanctioning Russian-occupied territories in the Donbas, extending more sanctions to Belarus, and limiting Russian deposits in UK banks.

"We will continue working through our hitlist of oligarchs, focusing on their houses, their yachts and every aspect of their lives. In addition, we will be introducing the Economic Crime Bill tomorrow."

She said: "This is all about flushing out the oligarch dirty money from the United Kingdom. We will continue work with our G7 allies to cut off the Russian economy and cut the free world's dependence on Russian gas. Depriving Putin of his key source of revenue."

She said the UK is "leading the diplomatic effort to ensure there is a chorus of condemnation against President Putin".

Ms Truss said: "Putin is isolated. No-one is willing to back his war of choice."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy said: "We have all been inspired by the gallant and tenacious actions of Ukrainians in defence of their country. This is true courage under fire."

He added: "We must not let our focus slip for even a second. We will continue to stand united with our allies and partners supporting Ukraine and opposing this outrageous campaign of aggression.

"Putin is not only facing a united West, he is facing a truly United Kingdom. Together we have enacted sanctions that are having a strong effect."

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said he has written to all UK ports to ask they deny access to Russian flagged, registered or operated vessels.

He tweeted: "Today I've written to all UK ports asking them not to provide access to any Russian flagged, registered, owned, controlled, chartered or operated vessels.

"Given Putin's action in £Ukraine I've made clear these vessels are NOT welcome here with prohibiting legislation to follow."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said President Vladimir Putin's war could last for years and she told Ukrainians "we are prepared to suffer economic sacrifices to support you".

She said she met on Sunday with G7 foreign ministers, joined by Ukraine's foreign minister, saying: "Everyone is clear Putin must lose and we will carry on increasing the pressure until he does.

"We have all seen Ukraine's determination to fight.

"Putin's war could end up lasting for months and years. So, I say to our Ukrainian friends: we are with you. In Britain and around the world we are prepared to suffer economic sacrifices to support you. However long it takes, we will not rest until Ukraine's sovereignty is restored."

In his letter to all UK ports, Mr Shapps said the maritime sector "must play our part" in sanctioning Russia over Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine.

He wrote: "Russia's assault on Ukraine is an unprovoked, premeditated attack against a sovereign democratic state. The UK Government has been clear there would be massive consequences and a severe cost for any Russian military incursion into Ukraine, and, in co-ordination with our international allies and partners, we are developing an unprecedented package of further sanctions.

"The maritime sector is fundamental to international trade and we must play our part in restricting Russia's economic interests and holding the Russian government to account.

"In these circumstances the Department for Transport does not consider it appropriate for Russian vessels to continue to enter UK ports. From this point onwards, UK ports are asked not to provide access to any ship which they have reason to believe is: Owned, controlled, chartered, or operated by any person connected with Russia owned, controlled, chartered or operated by designated persons flying the Russian flag registered in Russia.

"We will seek to support UK ports in identifying Russian ships within scope of the above and will communicate directly with relevant ports when we identify ships bound for UK ports who fall within scope of the above.

"Further detailed sanctions against Russian shipping are being developed and further details will be shared very shortly."

Ivan Babuscsak, from Uzhhorod, who is studying at Napier University in Edinburgh, said Ukraine is "fighting for Europe" and praised Ukrainian soldiers as he called on the whole world to support his homeland.

Mr Babuscsak, a member of the Edinburgh branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain, also said the nuclear threat is "going on already, it's not just about bombs" as nuclear power stations are under threat amid the Russian invasion.

He told the PA news agency: "Finally, after all this help that Europe and America and Canada and other countries, now Japan today, are sending us, it's all thanks to our soldiers, they showed for the first few days, they showed that we will fight for our country and unfortunately the western world does not realise that we, a European nation, we are going to fight for our country.

"All we need is the whole world just to support us. We don't want any land forces from other countries, we just need the support, because what we are doing now, we are fighting for Europe now, not just for our own country.

"You would understand this if you would know Russians."

Mr Babuscsak has been keeping in touch with his parents and relatives in Ukraine and said that people are doing all they can to help each other.

He said: "My family are in Ukraine but I've been lucky, my region is the only region that has not been bombed but at the same time we've got a lot of refugees so all my friends are involved in any kind of volunteering, some helping with the Red Cross, some making food, doing anything they can do for people."

Conservative MP Tom Tugendhat, who chairs the Foreign Affairs Committee, sought assurances that monies frozen and seized will be held and returned to the Russian people "when this criminal conspiracy that laughably calls itself a government falls" and they have a "proper administration" to which it can be returned.

He also suggested countries join together to create a single fund for a "repayment mechanism for the damage done to Ukraine and the rebuilding of Russia in due course".

Liz Truss replied: "Our issue is not with the Russian people, many of whom are now protesting against this appalling regime, it is with Putin and his cronies - that is who we're targeting with our hit on oligarchs and he is right that that money should be protected, and I'll look into the idea he's put forward."

SNP foreign affairs spokesman Alyn Smith supported the sanctions but said he would "urge more", including on refugees, telling MPs: "The UK needs to waive visas, not flags."

Ms Truss replied in the Commons: "We're creating a new Ukrainian humanitarian route to enable families of British nationals to come into the United Kingdom and this will mean an additional 100,000 Ukrainians are able to seek sanctuary in the United Kingdom."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy said: "Labour's priority is to cut off Putin's rogue state from our economic system and to undermine his campaign of aggression in Ukraine."

On sanctions, he added: "The moves to finally clamp down on dirty money so long demanded by Labour and colleagues across the House are long overdue.

"It's regrettable that it's taken this long and a crisis of this nature for action, but we welcome the steps and will study them carefully, but there's still more the Government can do."

He added: "The Government should go further to ensure sanctions can be placed against Russia's extractive industries, energy industries and technological industries.

"It's vital that these sanctions are broad enough to inflict damage on every aspect of Russia's economy."

Responding, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "What we are seeing is Putin is completely isolated, there is nobody else backing him up in these international fora and there is a growing group of countries who are prepared to put sanctions on, who are prepared to supply defensive weapons, and we are leading the charge in bringing those countries on board."

She added: "We are looking at more sanctions on the energy industry, the technology industry."

Liz Truss said Belarus will face further sanctions for its "complicity" in the "abhorrent invasion" of Ukraine.

Ms Truss, in reply to Labour former minister Dame Margaret Hodge, told the Commons: "Members of the Duma can and will be sanctioned, we're working through the list of members in the same way as we're working through our hit list of oligarchs, and I will look into the issues around Kazakhstan and other nations.

"We're already sanctioning Belarus and we're shortly imposing more sanctions on Belarus for the complicity in this abhorrent invasion."

Conservative MP Tobias Ellwood, who chairs the Defence Committee, pressed the UK to put in a resolution at the UN General Assembly to ensure China is "obliged to follow" restrictions being placed on Russia via sanctions.

Ms Truss acknowledged the need to ensure there is "not sanctions leakage into other countries".

She added: "I did speak to my Chinese counterpart. The Chinese did not vote with the Russians at the UN Security Council.

"I'm making it very clear to China and other major nations of their responsibilities to protect the sovereignty and self-determination of Ukraine, and we continue to put pressure on them."

The Liberal Democrats have urged the Government to seize the money of Russian oligarchs "no matter where the money may or may not be transferred to".

Foreign affairs spokesperson Layla Moran mentioned Russian-Israeli billionaire Roman Abramovich, who she said "curiously, a couple of days ago decided to transfer ... or I'll say it out loud, wanted to transfer Chelsea FC into some kind of trust".

She added: "The concern, of course, is that oligarchs are working with their lawyers and accountants to do the same.

"Can she assure this House that we will not stop, we will follow the money and no matter where the money may or may not be transferred to, we will find it and we will seize it?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "I can assure the honourable lady that that is exactly what we are doing. We have a very large team of people working through our hit list of oligarchs and we are also looking at their properties, their ownerships of yachts. We have already grounded their private jets."

Mr Abramovich handed "stewardship and care" of Chelsea to the club foundation's trustees on Saturday in a move aimed to protect the Stamford Bridge club, but now the 55-year-old is said to be trying to help bring an end to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Mr Abramovich's spokesperson told the PA news agency: "I can confirm that Roman Abramovich was contacted by the Ukrainian side for support in achieving a peaceful resolution and that he has been trying to help ever since. Considering what is at stake, we would ask for your understanding as to why we have not commented on neither the situation as such nor his involvement."

Sanctions against Russia should only end once "every inch" of Ukrainian land, including Crimea, is returned, the Foreign Secretary has agreed.

Conservative MP for Elmet and Rothwell Alec Shelbrooke asked: "Does the Foreign Secretary agree with me that the sanctions regime needs to stay in place until every inch of Ukrainian territory is back in Ukrainian control, including Crimea?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "Yes, I completely agree with him."

Elsewhere in the debate, Conservative chair of the intelligence and security committee Julian Lewis said: "Does she accept that the right way to deal with a robotic, sneering psychopath firmly in the grip of small-man syndrome is not to impose sanctions in a piecemeal and gradually escalating way, but to seek to inflect maximum economic pain at the earliest possible moment?"

Ms Truss said: "Yes is the answer, and that is what we are doing. We are pushing as hard as we can for the toughest possible sanctions. This is the biggest package of sanctions the UK has ever put in place in our history and we want to do even more, and we want to push it with our allies."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked Boris Johnson for more anti-tank missiles during their telephone conversation on Monday.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman told reporters: "They had a good conversation - they are speaking almost daily now, as you know.

"In terms of the kit (the UK is sending to Ukraine), I can't get into full details but it will include further anti-tank missiles and other equipment directly requested by President Zelensky and the Ukrainian government.

"They didn't in the call go through the list but from time to time President Zelensky asks for specific bits of kit or equipment and, whenever feasible, we are seeking to deliver it. And, as I say, we are almost up to daily deliveries now across the border."

Asked if the equipment was being flown to Poland and taken by road to Ukraine, the No 10 spokesman replied: "Broadly.

"I won't go into any more specifics. There are reasons why we don't go into exactly how we are getting it across but, broadly speaking, yes, we are unable to fly it directly in."

The UK Government is "looking at" secondary sanctions against companies which may step in to "the gap left in trade" to "profiteer" from the invasion of Ukraine, Liz Truss confirmed.

Conservative former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt said: "Can I ... ask her whether she would consider secondary sanctions, that is to say sanctions not against Russian entities, but against entities in other countries that seek to profit from the gap left in trade?

"It is totally unacceptable for others to profiteer from this invasion, but also will increase the pressure on Russia, as we know it did successfully on Iran."

Foreign Secretary Ms Truss replied: "Yes, we are looking at that, and he is 100% right."

Downing Street said Boris Johnson would be using his Monday afternoon call with G7 and other world leaders to see what can be done to "further up the pressure" on Russia following its invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking to reporters, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "The aim is to see what more we can do to dissuade Putin from continuing down this path.

"You have seen how last week the EU, the US, the UK and many other countries came together with a strong sanctions package and other means.

"The donors conference that (Defence Secretary) Ben Wallace attended saw lots of countries who hadn't previously done so commit to defensive military aid. We want to see more of that.

"The Prime Minister will be talking about the need to go further on things like Swift and pushing for that.

"So, I can't pre-empt exactly what they will discuss, but certainly all of them will want to be talking about what more can be done, in a unified sense, to further up the pressure."

The Government is looking at ways to target the families of Russian oligarchs and the people who work for them, Liz Truss has said.

The Foreign Secretary's comments come as Conservative former party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith insisted that oligarchs are mostly in possession of Vladimir Putin's own personal fortune, which is "squirrelled away through their accounts".

He said: "We should remind everybody that the oligarchs are mostly in possession of Putin's own personal fortune, which is something in the order of 200 to 250 billion dollars squirrelled away through their accounts.

"But she will be hamstrung slightly because although we pursue the oligarchs and their money, it is still not mandatory, it is still not an offence for those who have worked for them, their lawyers, their estate agents and all the others, if they fail to give up the information about what other deals that they have done.

"So, can she now introduce in the Bill, make it mandatory for all those in the chain, that if they fail to immediately - someone who is sanctioned - to pass that information up directly, they will themselves be committing a criminal offence?"

Ms Truss replied: "My right honourable friend makes a very good point and we are absolutely looking at what we can do to target the families of oligarchs, the people that work for them, the people that support them, and the people that enable them because, ultimately, all of these people are supporting the Putin regime. And we ultimately need to stop the financing of that regime."

Boris Johnson spoke to Polish President Andrzej Duda ahead of his visit to the country on Tuesday.

"The Prime Minister thanked President Duda for his close collaboration and support to ensure vital defensive and humanitarian aid reached Ukraine," a Downing Street spokeswoman said.

"They both agreed on the need to continue to work with international partners on sanctions measures.

"Sharing their condemnation of the Russian attacks on Ukraine, the leaders paid tribute to the Ukrainian people and their bravery in the recent hours and days.

"The Prime Minister set out the UK's support to mitigate against the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the region, including the £40 million package he announced yesterday, and said the UK stood ready to support Poland further as Ukrainians sought refuge over the border."

SNP MP Brendan O'Hara (Argyll and Bute) asked why Russian state-owned oil tankers were still allowed to use UK ports.

He said: "Why, when we're imposing such harsh economic sanctions on the Kremlin, are we continuing to allow Russian state-owned oil tankers to go freely about their business?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "They won't be going about their business freely for much longer."

Raising the Russian embassy, Labour's Chris Bryant (Rhondda) argued: "I don't really understand why the Prime Minister said last Thursday that we weren't going to engage in cultural or sporting boycotts, because we certainly should.

"We should throw every single thing we've got at the Russians and, finally, I don't understand why the Prime Minister also said last Thursday that we're not going to be sending any Russian diplomats back home.

"Surely we should at least be cutting the Russian embassy here by a half or three-quarters, if not deciding that, frankly, the ambassador who has lied through his teeth to this House should go back home."

Ms Truss replied: "We have a hit list of oligarchs that we are working through ... the Culture Secretary is taking a very tough line on cultural activities and we've seen a number of sporting events already cancelled."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng made a statement in the House of Commons on reforms the Government will be bringing forward to "improve transparency of the ownership of companies and properties in the UK".

Mr Kwarteng said these reforms will "strengthen the enforcement of financial sanctions".

He added: "The openness of our economy to investment from all parts of the world is one of our greatest strengths. However, we're equally determined that we want to attract the right kind of investment.

"As many people in this House will know, oligarchs and kleptocrats from Russia and elsewhere have used the veneer of legitimacy provided by UK-registered companies and partnerships, and they have also used the high-end property to help launder proceeds of corruption."

Liz Truss warned the BBC risks being banned in Russia if the UK Government takes action against the Russian state-backed broadcaster RT.

In response to a question from SNP MP Chris Law (Dundee West), Ms Truss told the Commons: "We are looking at what can be done on RT but the reality is that if we ban RT in the United Kingdom, that is likely to lead to channels like the BBC being banned in Russia.

"What we want is the Russian population to hear the truth about what Vladimir Putin is doing, so there's a very careful judgment to be made, and that is something the Culture Secretary is looking at."

Conservative former minister Jonathan Djanogly said: "I realised that the Government really understood the nature of sanctioning oligarchs when the sanctions on Aeroflot were extended to private jets.

"In that vein, will (Ms Truss) now consider banning insurance for Russian yachts and jets, which will be worldwide application, and make life a lot tougher for those concerned?"

Ms Truss replied: "Nothing is off the table."

Conservative Felicity Buchan (Kensington) said: "At the moment we are freezing assets of those sanctioned, would she consider putting a charge onto those assets, monetising the charge now and using the money raised to pay for the support of refugees in eastern Europe, and ultimately to rebuild Ukraine?"

Ms Truss replied: "I thank (her) for her very innovative idea and I will certainly have a look at that."

Labour's Liam Byrne (Birmingham, Hodge Hill) urged the Government to "speed up the process of hitting the people on the hit list".

Ms Truss replied: "This is a concerted endeavour where all of us are doing all we can as quickly as we can to show unity and deliver a massive hit to the Russian economy ... There are areas where we are going a lot further than our allies, there are some areas where they have gone further than us, but what we need to do is continue to make progress together."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said that in light of Russia's "outrageous actions" in recent days, it is "necessary that we put these criminals on notice and send a clear message that the UK will not tolerate their corruption here".

He said: "To that end, I'm announcing two immediate steps. Firstly, today, my department is publishing a White Paper on corporate transparency and register reform. This White Paper sets out a comprehensive package of reforms to Companies House.

"The agency will be transformed into a custodian of accurate and detailed information ensuring that we can clamp down on those who seek to abuse UK corporate structures to launder money.

"Anyone setting up, running, owning or controlling a company in the UK will need to verify their identity with Companies House, who will then be able to challenge devious information and inform the security agencies."

Mr Kwarteng noted that alongside the White Paper, the Government will be legislating for other measures, "including reform of limited partnerships law, new powers to seize crypto assets and reforms to help businesses share information on suspected money laundering".

Kwasi Kwarteng said the Government will be introducing legislation to Parliament on Tuesday to "accelerate other measures, which will make an immediate, dissuasive effect on dirty money and its purveyors from Russia and elsewhere".

The Business Secretary went on: "The Bill we will introduce tomorrow will create a register of overseas entities to crack down on foreign criminals using UK property to launder their money.

"The new register will require anonymous foreign owners to reveal their real identity to ensure that criminals can no longer hold property behind secretive chains of shell companies.

"By legislating now we will send a clear warning to those who have or who are thinking about using the UK property market to launder ill-gotten gains, particularly those linked to the Putin regime."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, addressing concerns over war crimes, the possible use of chemical weapons and a lack of diplomatic expulsions, said: "We are working very closely with the ICC, the chief prosecutor has already issued a statement about the situation in Ukraine and we're determined that everybody in Russia close to Putin who is in charge of this appalling invasion should be aware that they could be prosecuted for war crimes for what they're doing.

"Of course, on diplomatic expulsions we don't rule anything out and we're working closely with our allies."

On encouraging UK individuals and companies to dispose of investments and shareholdings in Russian companies, Ms Truss told the Commons: "I do welcome the actions by companies who are disassociating themselves from working with the Putin regime, including BP's divestment."

Ofcom has launched 15 investigations into the "due impartiality" of programmes on RT news channel, the broadcast watchdog has announced.

In a statement, Ofcom said it had "observed a significant increase in the number of programmes on the RT service that warrant investigation under our Broadcasting Code".

The investigations relate to 15 editions of the hourly news programme broadcast on RT on February 27 2022 between 5am and 7pm inclusive.

Ofcom said it expected "full co-operation from RT" during its inquiry.

Chief executive Dame Melanie Dawes said: "Given the serious ongoing situation in Ukraine, we will be concluding our investigations into RT as a matter of urgency."

Labour welcomed the Government's plans for an Economic Crime Bill but said the UK had lost time due to years of "Government inaction".

Shadow business minister Seema Malhotra told MPs that Labour supported the measures "in light of the atrocities we are seeing in Ukraine", but added: "He will know that Labour, and indeed some on his own side, have been calling for measures the Government has announced for years.

"We were first promised this legislation in 2016, and in fact it this draft legislation has been ready since 2018. While we support the Government's actions today, he needs to take responsibility for the time and progress lost through Government inaction."

Stressing that "time is of the essence", Ms Malhotra added: "The fact is that the UK would have been in a much stronger position to act with speed and our national security better protected if this register had also been up and running."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng replied: "Clearly, with respect to the time that it has taken, she will remember that in the 2017-2019 Parliament, a huge amount of our time was taken by members of her party and parties opposite to frustrate Brexit.

"They absorbed a huge amount of Parliamentary time and that was one of the reasons, I am afraid, that we couldn't expedite this sort of legislation."

Funding for enforcement is needed to make sure new measures to crack down on economic crime work properly, ministers have heard.

SNP Treasury spokeswoman Alison Thewliss said: "They can have the finest laws in the land but if there is no action and no investment in enforcement then there is very little point in having them at all."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng replied that the measures were "only the beginning of a much tighter regime that we want to bring".

Elsewhere in the debate, the Government faced hints that it should make sure its own donations were above board after newspaper reports in recent months of a secretive "advisory board" of wealthy donors to the Conservative Party.

Conservative chair of the intelligence and security committee Julian Lewis said: "I welcome this statement as far as it goes. As a matter of principle, does he agree that cleansing British public life of dirty Russian money is not quintessentially difficult?"

Mr Kwarteng replied: "As he appreciates, this legislation is timely and we are very grateful for the fact that it seems to have elicited a huge amount of support across the House."

Conservative former cabinet minister Andrew Mitchell (Sutton Coldfield) said: "Will he at least acknowledge that (some MPs) have been asking the Government to do these things for the last four years and more?

"Will he now look at other measures that we have advocated to clamp down on dirty money and money laundering, and the subject of Companies House, where he is absolutely right, will he now ensure that Companies House has real monkey glands for investigating and is not just a library, and that will need money and officials with great expertise, but sunlight, as ever, is the best disinfectant."

Labour's Dame Margaret Hodge (Barking) said: "The public register of beneficial ownership of properties that are foreign owned was promised when David Cameron was prime minister in 2015.

"It was promised then, nothing to do with Brexit, it could have introduced in that year.

"Then we come to Companies House, I am dismayed that all we're getting is a white paper. We had an extensive consultation which was completed a year ago, which gave plenty of building a consensus around the reforms that are necessary. We don't need a white paper, we need legislation."

DUP MP Sammy Wilson (East Antrim) said: "It's a pity that it's taken a war in Ukraine to bring forward these particular measures.

"There's no mention of what resources are going to be available to ensure that there's checking of whatever information is registered."

He went on: "We have plenty of home-grown people who launder money for criminal activities using their past terrorist connections and that needs to be dealt with as well."

Mr Kwarteng replied: "There is very much a commitment to make sure that we have the resources to police this new regime."

Labour's Liam Byrne (Birmingham, Hodge Hill) said: "This is, at best, a half measure. Companies House has 11,000 shell companies where there is no person of significant control registered, yet there's only been 112 prosecutions, that's just one per cent ... We need a far bigger, bolder plan from the minister today."

Mr Kwarteng replied: "This set of measures will be the biggest reform to Companies House in 200 years, it's something significant."

The Foreign Secretary will attend a meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in Geneva on Tuesday following the "unprovoked Russian invasion of Ukraine", the Foreign Office has said.

In a speech to the council, Liz Truss will urge the international community to "isolate Russia and condemn its actions unreservedly", the department said.

The Cabinet minister is expected to say that Russian President Vladimir Putin is "murdering Ukrainians indiscriminately" and that there is "blood on his hands".

"Putin is violating international law, including the UN Charter. He is violating human rights on an industrial scale and the world will not stand for it," she is due to tell the council.

"There are no shades of grey to this conflict. It is about right and wrong. This is Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war against a sovereign nation. There can be no apologising or excusing it.

"I urge nations to condemn Russia's appalling actions and to isolate it on the international stage."

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper urged the Government to provide "clarity" on sanctuary arrangements for Ukraine after, at Home Office questions, Priti Patel confirmed the Ukrainian mother of a British resident would able to join her daughter in the UK.

Ms Cooper claimed that this afternoon the Home Office clarified the arrangements would not cover elderly parents, therefore contradicting the Home Secretary's comments.

Raising a point of order, the shadow home secretary said: "Earlier this afternoon, in response to the Home Secretary's very confusing statement on sanctuary arrangements for Ukraine, I asked the Home Secretary whether the elderly Ukrainian mother of a British resident, who was prevented by Border Force from travelling from Paris to the UK to join her daughter would now, as a result of this announcement, be able today to return to Gare du Nord to come to the UK.

"The Home Secretary said very simply and clearly 'yes', which was welcomed. However, since then, the Home Office has clarified that these arrangements only apply to immediate family - that is spouses, partners, children under 18 and those in need of care. That does not include elderly parents. In this case, the Ukrainian widow is therefore not covered."

Ms Cooper added: "So, given that Home Office ministers are in the House all evening, Mr Deputy Speaker, could you use your endeavours to encourage them to get some clarity for the sake of Ukrainian families?"

Deputy Commons Speaker Nigel Evans replied: "The Government frontbench will have heard the right honourable member's point of order and if the record needs to be corrected, I am sure it will be."

Conservative MP Alicia Kearns (Rutland and Melton) urged the Government to extend transparency efforts into the private education sector.

Speaking in the Commons, she said: "In future packages, will he extend transparency efforts into the private education sector and education corporations, because our sanctions regime should stop these oligarchs who are sanctioned from being able to pay future school fees because they are sanctioned.

"But many of them pay school fees through shell companies, through cash, through cut-outs. And so we make sure that our amazing educational establishments do not continue to receive money of ill-gotten gains."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng replied: "This has been raised, particularly with my right honourable friend the Secretary of State for Education and he is absolutely focused on making sure that our education system isn't abused in the way that property and our companies legislation is."

The Edinburgh International Festival (EIF) said it has asked for and accepted the resignation of Russian conductor Valery Gergiev as its honorary president, with immediate effect.

In a statement, the EIF said: "The board of trustees of the Edinburgh International Festival has asked for, and accepted, the resignation of Valery Gergiev as honorary president of the festival.

"Edinburgh is twinned with the city of Kyiv and this action is being taken in sympathy with, and support of, its citizens."

Mr Gergiev has been dropped by his management company over his ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

World leaders - including from Poland and Romania, as well as those heading up the G7, Nato and the European Union - agreed to "pursue every avenue to ensure that Putin fails" following the show of Russian military force in Ukraine, No 10 said.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The Prime Minister spoke to G7 and other world leaders this afternoon about the situation in Ukraine.

"The leaders agreed that the valiant resistance to the Russian invasion we are seeing in Ukraine is truly inspirational.

"The Prime Minister stressed the need for countries to continue supporting the Ukrainian government, including with the provision of defensive weapons.

"He also underlined the need for an international response to the emerging humanitarian crisis, including through supporting Ukraine's neighbours to deal with large numbers of Ukrainians escaping violence in the country.

"The Prime Minister welcomed the unity of message and action between countries in recent days in response to Russia's invasion.

"He stressed the need to continue applying pressure on Putin's regime, including on Swift, with sanctions and with trade restrictions. The Prime Minister commended the progress over the weekend with all G7 countries agreeing to remove Russian banks from Swift.

"The Prime Minister also paid tribute to his fellow leaders' renewed commitments to bolster the Nato alliance, including Chancellor Scholz's pledge to massively increase Germany's spending on defence.

"The leaders agreed to pursue every avenue to ensure that Putin fails in his ambitions."

Former One Direction member Louis Tomlinson has cancelled his upcoming concerts in Moscow and Kyiv.

He said in a statement posted on Instagram: "Due to the recent events in Ukraine, I have to sadly announce that my tour shows in Moscow and Kyiv are cancelled until further notice.

"The safety of my fans is my main priority and my thoughts go out to the people of Ukraine and all those suffering from this needless war."

Vladimir Putin has been urged to pull his troops out of Ukraine to prevent further "humanitarian catastrophe" during an address by the UK permanent representative to the United Nations.

Addressing the UN Security Council in New York, Dame Barbara Woodward said: "As a result of President Putin's decision to launch a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, a country of 44 million people is now on the brink of humanitarian catastrophe.

"Whatever my Russian colleague claims, the world can see Russia's indiscriminate attacks against men, women and children across Ukraine, and its disregard for international humanitarian law."

She said missiles had "rained down" on Ukrainian city Kharkiv, that "hundreds of civilians had been killed as a result of the Russian invasion" and seven million people had been displaced, with the figure "rising exponentially".

Dame Barbara said Britain "stands with the Ukrainian people during their time of need" as she outlined the aid pledged by the UK Government.

She concluded: "We know that a humanitarian response is not enough to save the Ukrainian people from the disaster that Russia is inflicting upon them.

"So, our message today is simple. Once again, for the sake of humanity, we call on President Putin to stop this war and withdraw his forces from Ukraine."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220228ei2s0015p


Russian plane with nuclear fuel landed in Slovakia]]
EURACTIV Network
1239 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日 06:35 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

We also urge our German readers to subscribe to our new Europa Kompakt newsletter[https://www.euractiv.de/europa-kompakt] to receive the latest news and exclusives in German!

In today’s news from the Capitals:

BRATISLAVA

A plane carrying fuel for two Slovak nuclear power plants landed in Slovakia on Tuesday despite the country’s airspace being closed to Russian planes. The economy ministry confirmed that an aircraft of the Volga Dnepr company had carried nuclear fuel. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/russian-plane-with-nuclear-fuel-landed-in-slovakia/]

///

VIENNA

Austrian bank to take biggest blow from sanctions. Raiffeisen Bank International (RBI) could close its entire business in Russia, which accounts for around a third of its revenue with experts saying it is the European bank that will suffer the most from the sanction package against Russia. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/all/short_news/austrian-bank-to-take-biggest-blow-from-sanctions/]

///

BERLIN

Weimar Triangle stresses unity over Ukraine. The Weimar Triangle of Poland, France, and Germany has united behind the common cause of supporting Ukraine following a meeting of the three foreign ministers. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/weimar-triangle-stresses-unity-over-ukraine/]

///

PARIS

Le Maire backtracks after talking of ‘economic and financial war’ against Russia. French Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire, a key figure in implementing sanctions against Russia, caused an outcry after saying France and the EU would “wage a total economic and financial war on Russia”. Later in the day, he backtracked on his “inappropriate” remarks. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/le-maire-backtracks-after-talking-of-economic-and-financial-war-against-russia/]

UK AND IRELAND

LONDON

UK widens refugee scheme following criticism. The UK government has revised its stance on Ukrainian refugees after facing criticism that its offer of assistance was less generous than the European Union. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/uk-widens-refugee-scheme-following-criticism/]

/// 

DUBLIN

Ukrainian refugees to live on same terms as EU citizens in Ireland. Refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine will receive a special status allowing them to work and live in Ireland on the same terms as EU nationals, Foreign Minister Simon Coveney has said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/ukrainian-refugees-to-live-on-same-terms-as-eu-citizens-in-ireland/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS

HELSINKI

Russia and Belarus banned from ice hockey championships. Russia and Belarus are banned from competing in international ice hockey tournaments, while the International Olympic Committee has also recommended Russian and Belarusian athletes should be blocked from all international events. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/all/short_news/russia-and-belarus-banned-from-ice-hockey-championships/]

/// 

STOCKHOLM

Swedish government wants EU sanctions against Russian oligarchs and mercenaries. Stockholm calls for new sanctions from the EU, specifically targeting those who “have Putin’s back”. This group includes Russian oligarchs and the Wagner Group, an organisation of mercenaries. Read more. [https://www.euractiv.com/section/all/short_news/swedish-government-wants-eu-sanctions-against-russian-oligarchs-and-mercenaries/]

///

VILNIUS

Lithuania ready to accept refugees, warns of changing ‘level of comfort’. Lithuania is ready to accept Ukrainian refugees but the “level of comfort” might change drastically as the numbers of refugees are growing. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/lithuania-ready-to-accept-refugees-warns-of-changing-level-of-comfort/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ATHENS

Greece ends collaboration with all Russian cultural organisations. The Russian embassy in Athens has reacted strongly to the Greek government’s announcement marking the end of collaboration with Russian cultural organisations. Tensions between Athens and Moscow have escalated significantly over the past few days. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/greece-ends-collaboration-with-all-russian-cultural-organisations/] 

///

MADRID

Spain to deploy extra troops in Latvia to protect EU frontiers. Spain will soon deploy additional troops in Latvia to reinforce NATO and EU efforts to secure all European borders close to the Russian frontiers, Defence Minister Margarita Robles said on Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spain-to-deploy-extra-troops-in-latvia-to-protect-eu-frontiers/]

///

ROME

Close to one million Ukrainian refugees expected to arrive in Italy. Between 800,000 and 900,000 refugees will likely arrive in Italy due to the escalation of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Fabio Prevedello, the chairman of the Maidan Italian-Ukrainian association, told news agency ANSA on Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/close-to-one-million-ukrainian-refugees-expected-to-arrive-in-italy/]

///

LISBON

Portugal can take in 1,245 displaced Ukrainians, says government. Portugal can accommodate 1,245 people displaced from Ukraine, the minister of the presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva, said on Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/portugal-can-take-in-1245-displaced-ukrainians-says-government/]

VISEGRAD 

PRAGUE

Czechs want to break law and serve in Ukrainian armed forces. The Czech defence ministry has registered requests from citizens who wish to serve in the Ukrainian armed forces, although by law, this is prohibited. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czechs-want-to-break-law-and-serve-in-ukrainian-armed-forces/]

///

WARSAW

Poland will not send fighter jets to Ukraine, says president. President Andrzej Duda ruled out sending Polish fighter jets to Ukraine to support its resistance from Russia, as it would drag NATO into the conflict. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/poland-will-not-send-fighter-jets-to-ukraine-says-president/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

BELGRADE | PODGORICA

EU Parliament regrets Serbia not harmonising with EU’s Russia sanctions. Serbia’s failure to harmonise with the EU’s sanctions against Russia is regrettable and hurts the country’s accession process, according to a draft resolution on Ukraine which MEPs are set to vote. On the other hand, Montenegro, also an EU candidate, will fully align with EU foreign on the matter. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/all/short_news/eu-parliament-regrets-serbia-not-harmonising-with-eus-russia-sanctions/]

///

SOFIA

Bulgarians no longer like Putin. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s popularity in Bulgaria has dropped significantly in just four days, a survey published Tuesday by the sociological agency Alpha Research shows. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bulgarians-no-longer-like-putin/]

///

BUCHAREST

Romania wants to increase defence spending to 2.5% of GDP. The current security context shows that Romania needs to increase its defensive capabilities, therefore an increase in defence spending is called for, President Klaus Iohannis said Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/romania-wants-to-increase-defence-spending-to-2-5-of-gdp/]

///

Romania wants to set up hub for Ukraine donations. Romania wants to set up a hub for international donations for Ukraine, President Klaus Iohannis said Tuesday, after a meeting of the country’s Supreme Defence Council. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/romania-wants-to-set-up-hub-for-ukraine-donations/]

///

ZAGREB

Croatian president, government back granting Ukraine EU candidate status. Prime Minister Andrej Plenković and the Croatian government strongly support giving Ukraine EU candidate status, government spokesman Marko Milić said on Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/croatian-president-government-back-granting-ukraine-eu-candidate-status/]

///

SARAJEVO 

BiH deeply divided on Independence Day. Independence Day, celebrated on 1 March in Bosnia and Herzegovina, was only observed in the Federation entity and not in Republika Srpska, highlighting the deep division in the country. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bih-deeply-divided-on-independence-day/]

///

SKOPJE

North Macedonia minister: no need to activate commodity reserves. There will be no price shocks in North Macedonia, meaning there is no need to panic and activate commodity reserves for the time being, Economy Minister Kreshnik Bekteshi said on Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/north-macedonia-minister-no-need-to-activate-commodity-reserves/]

///

PRISTINA

Kosovo bans Russian media amid Ukraine invasion. TV broadcasting companies in Kosovo have started the withdrawal of Russian channels following a decision from the Independent Media Commission in the hopes of quelling the spread of Russian propaganda. Read more. [https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/kosovo-bans-russian-media-amid-ukraine-invasion/]

///

TIRANA

Albania receives last Russian wheat shipment amid sanctions. Amid wide-ranging sanctions imposed on Russia by the EU and also Albania, the last shipment of Russian wheat has arrived in the country on Tuesday. Read more. [https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/albania-receives-last-russian-wheat-shipment-amid-sanctions/]

AGENDA:

* EU: EU chief diplomat Josep Borrell and Enlargement Commissioner Olivér Várhelyi in Moldova / EU agriculture ministers hold emergency meeting on Ukraine / College of Commissioners meets / Working lunch between European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Parliament President Roberta Mestola. 

* NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg meets Icelandic Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir at HQ.

* Germany: German Chancellor Olaf Scholz visits Israel, German Foreign Minister annalen Baerbock in Washington.

* Austria: Commission VP Margaritis Schinas meets with Chancellor Karl Nehammer in Vienna / International Atomic Energy Agency board of governors holds meeting on Ukraine.

* Estonia: Eurogroup President Paschal Donohoe meets with finance minister and president of the central bank of Estonia.

* Cyprus: President Nicos Anastasiades hosts Israeli counterpart Isaac Herzog.

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Alexandra Brzozowski, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220302ei3200005


Slovak Press Today
1807 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日 07:38 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, March 2 (SITA) -

ENERGY: The Economy Ministry helped to secure the supply of nuclear fuel, which Slovenske Elektrarne will be able to use. According to the ministry, a Volga Dnepr Airlines plane landed at Bratislava Airport Tuesday early morning with nuclear fuel from the Russian Federation. "After gas and oil, the Slovak economy has secured another energy carrier. I am pleased that we have managed to accomplish it logistically, and I would like to thank the Foreign Affairs Ministry and Transport Ministry for great coordination in dealing with permits," said Economy Minister Richard Sulik. Even though Slovakia has closed its skies to Russian flights, in this case, in accordance with the applicable regulations, an exception has been used, which can be applied in the case of humanitarian aid and nuclear fuel. The Economy Ministry assures the public that Slovenske Elektrarne has enough nuclear fuel at the moment. Slovakia still relies on Russian nuclear fuel, but the Economy Ministry now claims it would like to buy it from non-Russian companies. Seven to nine tons of uranium fuel are used annually for operation of one VVER-440 reactor. Six units are in operation in Slovakia. Slovenske Elektrarne thus needs at least 42 tons of fuel for their operation. HN-4 SME-1,5 PRAVDA-11

BUDGET: The state budget deficit stood at 680.4 million euros at the end of this February The gap was 1.179 billion euros the year before. Revenues grew 537.1 million euros y-o-y to 2.401 billion euros. Expenditures soared by 38.2 million euros y-o-y to 3.082 billion euros, informs the Finance Ministry. The state budget performance thus improved 498.9 million euros y-o-y. Tax revenues grew by 522.1 million y-o-y. Positive development was reported with value-added tax (340.8 million euros), corporate income tax (70.6 million euros), excise taxes (43.5 million euros), taxes on the use of goods and licenses to perform activities (43.2 million euros), withholding tax (17.3 million euros), income tax paid by natural persons (3 million euros), and other taxes on goods and services (1.4 million euros). Revenues from taxes on international trade and transactions, sanctions included, increased by 2.3 million euros y-o-y. On the other hand, a negative development was recorded in the revenue from the budget of the European Union, with a y-o-y decrease of 8.8 million euros. Dividend income increased by 0.1 million euros. The cost of public debt service grew 52 million euros. HN-12

ENERGY: Despite the Russian invasion in Ukraine, Russian gas transit through Slovakia to Western Europe more than doubled in the last days of February compared to the previous period. Since Friday, more than 80 million cubic meters of Russian natural gas have been flowing daily through Velke Kapusany. The situation did not change in early March, according to the data release by gas carrier Eustream. Concerns over the disruption of Russian gas supplies to Europe, following the escalation of the conflict in Ukraine and the adoption of sanctions against Russia, have not yet materialized. HN-3

SOCIAL: Reacting to the situation in Ukraine, Slovak employers are calling for the speedy establishment of an official job portal, where people fleeing war in Ukraine would have access to vacancies on the Slovak labor market. As the Federation of Employers' Associations (AZZZ) informs, the job portal should be available in Ukrainian and could be, for example, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family. "The labor market situation is starting to stabilize after the corona crisis, and many employers are even planning to recruit staffers and increase their headcount. Here we see space for those who plan to stay on the Slovak labor market for a short or long term. Some sectors have been experiencing staff shortages in the long run and are able to hire a new employee immediately for some positions. Vacancies without speech barrier are, for example, in the field of transport, forwarding or gastronomy sector," said AZZZ Vice President Rastislav Machunka. HN-4

FIGHTER JETS: The Slovak government did not discuss whether to provide Ukraine with our MiG-29 fighter jets and the Ukrainians did not even ask us to do so. Defense Minister Jaroslav Nad (OLaNO) wrote this on the social network, stating that Slovakia does not plan such a step. "Yes, I announced that we are discussing the possibility of" getting rid "of the MiGs, but unless everything is worked out in negotiations - nothing is settled. It would be extremely irresponsible to get rid of the element of protection of our airspace without having appropriate replacement," the minister said. He added that in the context of assistance to Ukraine, it is necessary to give space to rational negotiations and to hear out Ukrainian demands. There are currently 20 to 30 Russian soldiers operating in Slovakia, who take care of Slovakia's MiG-29 fighters. "These soldiers have free movement in Slovakia, and it costs us 50 million euros a year," Prime Minister Eduard Heger (OLaNO) emphasized in January. Minister Nad admitted after Russia's invasion of Ukraine that MiGs could be decommissioned by Slovakia before the Americans deliver the first new F-16 fighters to us in 2023. Until then, airspace protection would be provided by the allies. SME-2,3 PRAVDA-2,3

COURTS: The Supreme Court heard former special prosecutor Dusan K. at its close-doors session on his request for release from custody. As Zuzana Vilim from the Supreme Court's press department further informed, the session was adjourned until Friday, March 4, when the Supreme Court panel will decide on the defendant's request. "In the meantime, the conditions will be examined regarding the possible replacement of detention with technical monitoring," Vilim added. Dusan K. has been found guilty of activities for the sake of Bratislava criminal gang Takacovci and also of accepting a bribe of 50,000 euros for the Special Prosecutor's Office not filing a complaint against the release of the alleged boss of the Takacovci gang, Lubomir Kudlicka, from custody. The judgement was handed down by Judge Pamela Zaleska on Monday. Dusan K. was also found guilty of acts when in April and August 2020, respectively, he provided information on criminal proceedings to the former head of the Financial Administration Criminal Office, Ludovit Mako, regarding the investigation of extortion of businessman Pavol Konkol and preparation of the murder of National Criminal Agency (NAKA) investigator Jan Curilla. According to the judge, by doing so, Dusan K. committed the crimes of establishing, masterminding, and supporting a crime group, taking bribe, abusing the powers of a public official, and endangering confidential and classified information. For this, the court sentenced him to fourteen years in prison, at a minimum-security institution. The judge also decided on the forfeiture of his property. Dusan K. has appealed the verdict. PRAVDA-9 PLUS-4

PRESIDENT: The Slovak ambassador to Ukraine and with three other Embassy employees continue to work at the Embassy in Kyiv despite the difficult situation. President Zuzana Caputova confirmed it in her profile on a social network after a phone call with Ambassador Marek Safin. She noted that this is one of the last embassies of the European Union still present in the Ukrainian capital. "They have also provided refuge to several families and to our and foreign journalists. There was a curfew over the weekend, but today they also managed to buy necessary groceries. Everyone is okay," the president said. During their conversation, she thanked the ambassador and his colleagues for their determination, self-sacrifice, and professionalism. PLUS-21

VOICE-SD: VOICE-SD claims that it will be important to find an agreement between EU member states to grant Ukraine with a candidate status. The party is ready to support this request. "As full membership is a matter of years rather than months, it will be necessary for Ukraine to adopt a new fast-track procedure, prepare an offer of a broad economic-strategic partnership and integrate it into the European Economic Area," said Patricia Medved Macikova, party’s spokeswoman. According to the party, the rapprochement of Ukraine to the EU is also in the interest of the Slovak Republic, as the country is our neighbor with the market of more than 40 million citizens. PLUS-5

POLICE: The police have recorded threats against persons working at analytical departments of the Police Force, specifically in the fight against pro-Russian disinformation. As Denisa Bardyova, a spokeswoman for the Police Presidium, informed, it is possible that the activities of persons who are behind the threats are coordinated and supported by various organizations. "With these attacks, these people want to eliminate the activities of police analysts so that they do not continue to stand in the way of their effort to trigger information chaos," Bardyova said. According to her, the security camera systems captured an unknown person near the home of one of the analysts of the Police Force. Subsequently, pictures of his home and the vehicle belonging to a non-participating person appeared in the online space to enable to liquidate this person. PLUS-7

TRADE: Compressors manufactured by the Piestany-based company Ekom are used by doctors around the world. Special air compression devices have their place in dental clinics, hospitals, laboratories, but also in industry. Russia is one of the markets where the company succeeded and has been building a base for three decades. However, the company has temporarily frozen the trade flow in this direction due to the current situation. The company estimated that its turnover can decline by 4 million euros. The company is unable to estimate the exact impacts for now. Everything will depend on the West's most feared sanction against Russia, exclusion from the SWIFT network. Investments in Russia were carried out by giants such as Matador Automotive, Grafobal and Chirana+. According to the chairman of the Slovak Exporters Council, Lukas Parizek, the exclusion of Russian banks from the SWIFT will make impossible to carry out bank transfers, thus payments for the delivery or collection of goods flows. This will de facto impede the trade with the Russian Federation through these banks. "It will also significantly affect Slovak exporters. For now, entrepreneurs will have to look for alternative ways and get the help of less important banks or financial institutions," said Parizek. However, the Czech economist Lukas Kovanda thinks that those who trade with Russia will have to leave this market sooner or later. "This market will cease to exist because it will be extremely difficult to trade with an economy like Russian. There is not much prospect for the vast majority of people who have activities there," Kovanda said. HN-9

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020220302ei3200001


CIA: Rubriky Reuters - Reuters - Finance - Monetary Policy and Regulation
1376 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
CIA - Weekly Industry Profiles
CIAINP
英文
© 2022, Ceska informacni agentura s.r.o. Specialist in briefing and Hotline News Services Tel: +420-2-6278651, Fax:+420-2-6278717, E-Mail: redakce@pointa.cz
The Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB) has taken steps to revoke Sberbank CZ's license to operate as a bank. This was due to the deterioration of the bank's liquidity situation in connection with the outflow of deposits following the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. In connection with this, the ČNB issued a preliminary measure preventing the bank from handling assets and liabilities, including granting new loans and accepting deposits. According to the executive director Renáta Kadlecová, the financial market guarantee system is ready to start paying compensation for insured deposits in accordance with the law, up to EUR 100,000 per client. If the bank is part of an international financial group based in the EU, the ČNB cooperates with the Single Resolution Board (SRB) Single Resolution Board (SRB).(ČIA)

Despite the ongoing events in Ukraine, the Slovak banking sector provides all financial services in full. The volume of banks' exposure to companies in Ukraine and Russia is minimal and does not endanger their stability or clients. The National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) added that Slovak banks have a low level of problem loans and high coverage.(ČIA)

The average interest rate for mortgage loans with a rate fixed for five years and an LTV ratio of up to 80% offered by the largest banks is getting closer to 5%. This information was provided by Gepard Finance, adding that shorter fixed-rate periods had already broken the 5% rate. Fixed-rate periods of up to ten years may be a few tenths of a percentage point lower, but, according to Gepard Finance, this does not mean that clients should prefer them now, as, in terms of ten years, the rate around 4.6% is still relatively high.(ČIA)

Mortgage rates of all banks in February 2022 exceeded 4 % and are rather close to 5 %. The minimum currently achievable rate is 4.19 % for a loan with a 10-year fixation. The average mortgage offer rate increased by 0.2 pp m/m. This follows from Golem Finance data. The GOFI 70 stock index, which monitors mortgage bid rates, rose to 4.60 %. The increase in ČNB rates and the current tense geopolitical situation in Ukraine have not significantly affected the interbank rates so far.(ČIA)

In 2021, a total of 6,836 counterfeit or altered banknotes and coins of various currencies and denominations were seized in the Czech Republic. Their number increased by 5,447 y/y, mainly as a result of a police operation in which a large number of counterfeit euro banknotes were seized. The Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB) informed about it, stating that there were 1,394 counterfeit or altered Czech banknotes and coins, up by 392. Their value almost doubled to CZK 2.6m. The volume of currency in circulation at the end of 2021 was CZK 731bn. The ČNB offers instructions for checking banknote security features, for example, in the Czech Money mobile application.(ČIA)

As at January 31, 2022, banks in the Czech Republic approved 3,155 applications for loans worth CZK 14.14bn to the non-financial corporations under the COVID II state guarantee program. This follows from data from the Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB). Within the COVID PRAHA program, there were 302 applications with a total value of CZK 1.76bn. Those interested in support from the COVID III program sent 11,670 applications. Banks have so far approved 7,582 worth CZK 47.81 bn. The total number of submitted applications in the COVID EGAP program reached 182. Of these, 137 in the amount of CZK 17.85bn were approved.(ČIA)

Inflation in the Czech Republic is forecast to average 3.0% on an annual basis. This stems from the Czech National Bank's (CNB) February survey of analysts. They generally expect inflation to peak in Q1 2022, when it is likely to surpass the 10% threshold. Economists believe it will be crucial how much companies will reflect rising energy and material costs in output prices. Within the three-year outlook, economists expect consumer prices to rise by 2.2%. In addition, GDP growth is expected to be 3.9% in 2022. Within the monetary policy outlook, most respondents believe the central bank will raise rates by another 0.25pp in March 2022.(ČIA)

The Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB) draws the attention of all financial institutions to the increased need for effective and consistent fulfillment of obligations arising from restrictive measures in force in the Czech Republic. In particular, it draws attention to the new EU sanctions regulations in connection with the escalation of the conflict in Ukraine. The CNB also calls on financial institutions to consider the effectiveness of their systems for so-called sanction screening and not to rely solely on the lists issued to ensure the consistent application of current restrictive measures.(ČIA)

The balance sheet total of the Czech banking sector reached CZK 9.41 trillion at the end of January 2022. The dominant item on the asset side of the balance sheet is loans provided to residents, their volume amounted to CZK 6.67 trillion. Residents' deposits, which form the most important item of the banking sector's liabilities, amounted to CZK 5.99 trillion. The data were published by the Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB). The volume of loans provided to households was CZK 2.06 trillion and increased by CZK 11 billion month-on-month. Loans to non-financial corporations remained at CZK 1.19 trillion.(ČIA)

The annual growth rate of M3 in January 2022 was 6.5%. This represents a month-on-month decrease of 0.6 pp. The Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB) reported that, due to financial transactions, the M3 monetary aggregate increased by CZK 133.8 billion month on month (by CZK 351.7 billion year on year) to CZK 5736.6 billion.(ČIA)

The average interest rate on new loans to non-financial corporations (excluding overdrafts, revolving loans and credit cards) increased to 5.37 % in January 2022. The rate on loans of up to CZK 7.5m rose to 5.27 %. It increased to 4.89 % for loans in the CZK 7.5–30m range and to 5.45 % for loans over CZK 30m. The rate on overdrafts, revolving loans and credit card loans rose to 5.74 %. Of this, it increased to 5.91 % for overdrafts. This follows from data from the Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB).(ČIA)

Either we exclude Russia from SWIFT, or in a few days we will observe the total occupation of Ukraine by Russia and will express our deepest condemnation of this occupation. We must therefore make a choice and I am in favour of the first option, President Miloš Zeman said in his speech at the B9 Summit, adding that sanctions or blacklists alone are not enough because Russia is used to them.(ČIA)

The average interest rate on non-purpose loans fell 0.65pp to 6.10% in January 2022. This is according to the Broker Consulting Index (BC) of consumer loans. The index recorded the same value in January 2021. Analyst Michaela Pudilová noted that the continued increase in base interest rates by the Czech National Bank suggests that the interest rate on consumer loans will also go up slightly in 2022. However, she does not expect mortgage loans to see such a significant increase in the coming months.(ČIA)

The Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB) has levied a penalty of CZK 80,000 on GLOBIT CZ. The central bank stated that the company provided payment services without the relevant authorisation.(ČIA)

The Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB) levied CZK 100,000 penalty upon DSC plus for exceeding the authorisation to operate as a small-scale payment service provider. The central bank stated that in the period from August to December 2021, the monthly average of the amounts of payment transactions made by the company in the Czech Republic over the last 12 months exceeded the legal limit of EUR 3m.(ČIA)

Ceska Informacni Agentura SRO

文件 CIAINP0020220304ei340000a


The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said Russia is "likely" ramping up claims...
10778 字
2022 年 3 月 8 日 21:53 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said Russia is "likely" ramping up claims Ukraine is developing nuclear or biological weapons as "retrospective justification" for its invasion.

"Since the end of February there has been a notable intensification of Russian accusations that Ukraine is developing nuclear or biological weapons," a MoD statement said.

"These narratives are long standing but are currently likely being amplified as part of retrospective justification for Russia's invasion of Ukraine."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would update MPs on Wednesday on the support being offered by the UK to the Ukrainian forces.

He told Sky News: "We started off, obviously, with 2,000 Nlaws - light anti-tank weapons.

"We've changed and increased both the Nlaws and others, and I will make a statement tomorrow, I think, in Parliament to give the details.

"Britain is stepping up and doing that, we are supporting the co-ordination of delivery throughout Ukraine."

The UK was "in a good place to make sure they get better defence and more defence".

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would support Poland whether or not it decided to donate MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine.

The US has urged Poland to supply the Soviet-era planes, offering to provide replacement US jets instead.

Mr Wallace told Sky News: "Poland will understand that the choices it makes will not only directly help Ukraine, which is a good thing, but also may bring them into direct line of fire from countries such as Russia or Belarus.

"They will have to calibrate that. That's a really big responsibility on the shoulders of the President of Poland and, indeed, defence minister.

"So, it's not for me to second-guess their choice. But it is for me as a fellow Nato member to say I will stand by Poland."

Ben Wallace said the Ministry of Defence would help the Home Office process visa applications from Ukrainians fleeing the war zone.

On Monday night, the Home Office said 300 visas had been issued from a total of 17,700 family scheme applications which have been started, 8,900 of which have been submitted.

The Defence Secretary told Sky News: "The question really relies on how many checks we do once people reach a safe space.

"So, no-one is stopping those people getting across their borders into a safe space.

"The first and foremost duty for all of us is to make sure that people get to safety.

"Once they've got to safety, making sure we just check their identity before they come to this country, it is incredibly important that we do that.

"It shouldn't take time. And I've offered, I will be offering, to the Home Office assistance from the MoD in the same way we did in Op Pitting (the evacuation of Afghanistan) to increase the processing time to help those people."

Ben Wallace acknowledged the processing of visa applications could be speeded up.

The Defence Secretary told Sky News: "I know the Home Secretary is determined to speed that up."

He added: "This is fast moving. The first duty is for the Government to help people get to safety ... the next responsibility is to make sure we process them as quickly as possible.

"Of course, we can do that quicker, we are leaning into that, the Home Secretary is determined to do that quicker, I will give her all the support I can."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Vladimir Putin's forces were "getting more desperate" and "we are seeing the Russians just double down on brutality".

He told BBC Breakfast: "Russia has still not been making its advances, it's day 13. That northern column that we have often talked about is still pretty much stuck, I mean really stuck, so that's not advancing.

"Russian casualty rates are continuing and what we have seen is - yes - a number of the cities have been effectively encircled, but when Russian forces try to enter they are either repelled or they only manage to take a small part of the cities, suffering very large casualties.

"So, Russia is not getting its way at all, despite overwhelming forces.

"It is getting more desperate, which is why we see huge amounts of indiscriminate shelling."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace acknowledged "we need to do more" to address the situation in Calais.

Hundreds of Ukrainians at Calais have been told they need to travel back to Paris or Brussels to apply for a visa where they face a lengthy wait, the BBC reported.

"It's difficult for those people - why wouldn't it be - to go all the way back to Paris," he told BBC Breakfast.

"We need to upscale it, I know that the Home Secretary has already doubled, or trebled in some cases, more people in different processing centres.

"We can do more, we will do more."

He insisted the Government's compassion was "huge" and would result in hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians coming to the UK.

"It's not the case that we are only allowing 300 people in, it is the case that the system has not been quick enough, which is what we're going to address."

A former Centrica boss has said the issue surrounding the supply of oil and gas from Russia is about price more than volume.

Iain Conn told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme: "We are very dependent as a region on Russian oil and gas. Russia is the second largest producer of natural gas, and the third largest producer of crude oil, and Europe takes approximately half of the exports of both of those from Russia.

"Just to put that in context, the world uses 4,000 billion cubic metres of gas a year, Europe uses 500 of those, and of that the UK uses 78.

"Now, the UK does not import much Russian gas directly, it's about six per cent of our imports. However, what we do import from Europe comes from Norway, Belgium and the Netherlands, and we can only import this gas because enough gas is coming into eastern Europe from Russia.

"Russia currently supplies 150 billion cubic metres a year of Europe's total imports, so we are very dependent on both Russia and oil and gas as a region, less so in the UK.

"This is, therefore, for the UK about price, because we are inextricably linked to the prices of these commodities in Europe."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will address MPs at Westminster later on Tuesday.

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace told the BBC: "I have been very privileged to meet the President of Ukraine on a number of occasions.

"He is young, he is modern, his values are what President Putin hates, and that is why President Putin is so determined to try to snuff out the values of Ukraine.

"Well, we are not going to let that happen."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said the carnage in Ukraine could spell the end for Vladimir Putin's rule in Russia.

"This will be Putin's end, this country, and so it should be because of, not only their spirit and the moral component that they have on their side - the Ukrainians - but also because it will be an impossible task to occupy such a people and a country."

Asked how the war will end, he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Either when the Russian forces are so stuck and defeated that the Russian armed forces effectively turn in on itself and the generals get blamed and then it grinds to a halt, or Russia imposes its total will, which it is already trying to do by trying to break the people of Ukraine.

"Putin won't break the people of Ukraine but... he is doing everything he can to break the country's infrastructure and their supply lines for food."

But he added: "The cost to Putin is not just in the invasion, it's going to be in the decades of occupation, which I don't think he will be able to sustain."

Vladimir Putin is a "spent force" in the world, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the Russian president "seems to have no limit to the humanitarian grief and murder he can inflict on a country".

"Whatever we think about President Putin, he is done. He is a spent force in the world. No-one will be taking his phone calls in the long term," the Cabinet minister said.

"He has exhausted his army, he is responsible for thousands of Russian soldiers being killed, responsible for innocent people being killed, civilians being killed in Ukraine.

"He is reducing his economy to zero, because the international community has decided that is absolutely unacceptable, what he's done.

"So he is a spent force in the world and I don't know whether he thinks that's a clever thing to be, but that diminishes his own country in the world and he has to take responsibility for that."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he will provide Priti Patel with "as many people as she likes" to assist with processing visas.

Asked why a pop-up centre cannot be established in Calais today, he said: "I'm not the Home Secretary, that's why not.

"The responsibility for the processing of our borders is the responsibility of the Home Secretary."

He told ITV's Good Morning Britain: "What I can do - and I know the Home Secretary is determined to do - is, as the Ministry of Defence did in Afghanistan, I can lean in to provide her with as many people as she likes, as many people as she needs to do the processing."

He said they would be MoD officials rather than troops, because armed forces cannot be deployed to France without permission from Paris.

Oil giant Shell has apologised for buying a shipment of Russian oil last week at knock-down prices as it promised to slowly end its involvement in all Russian oil, gas and petroleum.

"We are acutely aware that our decision last week to purchase a cargo of Russian crude oil to be refined into products like petrol and diesel - despite being made with security of supplies at the forefront of our thinking - was not the right one and we are sorry," said chief executive Ben van Beurden.

The business said it will immediately stop all spot purchases of Russian crude oil and will shut its service stations, aviation fuel and lubricants operations in Russia.

Withdrawal from other associations with Russia will happen "in a phased manner, aligned with new government guidance", the company said.

The announcement follows the withdrawal of several major international companies from Russia following its unprovoked full invasion of Ukraine.

A man has appeared in court in Dublin after a large lorry crashed into the gates of the Russian embassy on Monday.

Desmond Wisley, aged 49 and with an address at Tully, Ballinamore, Leitrim, was charged with dangerous driving and criminal damage.

Mr Wisley, who runs an ecclesiastical supplies company, appeared at Tallaght District Court in south Dublin on Tuesday morning.

He was released on bail.

A new "pop-up" visa application site for Ukrainian refugees will be set up in Lille, the Foreign Secretary has said after the Government's resettlement policy was called "cruel and chaotic".

At Foreign Office Questions, Labour MP Diane Abbott (Hackney North and Stoke Newington) said: "Will the Foreign Secretary speak to her colleague the Home Secretary about the cruel and chaotic way that desperate Ukrainian refugees are being treated by her department?

"It cannot be right that there is no visa application centre in Calais and Ukrainian refugees who travel thousands of miles to Calais are being redirected to either Paris or Brussels. Does the Foreign Secretary agree that this brings the UK into disrepute?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "The Home Office have placed staff in Poland and Hungary to help people, they have also ... the Home Secretary has announced a new pop-up application site in Lille.

"I can tell her that the Home Office has set up a surgery for MPs in Portcullis House which I am sure she will be very welcome to take any cases she has to."

(Corrected repetition, removing part of quote in par three, repeats for those needing)

Speaking to reporters outside court on Tuesday, Desmond Wisley thanked Irish police for the "professionalism, courtesy, kindness" they displayed since his arrest.

He said: "It shows us how democracy should work."

He spoke of a need to "keep the pressure on (Vladimir) Putin, to stop the war in Ukraine and especially the murder of innocent children".

He also spoke about the Russian Ambassador to Ireland, Yury Filatov.

"If he is going to continue spreading lies about the war and not tell Putin that enough is enough and to stop the war for the sake of the children, then I ask the Irish Government to expel the ambassador and his staff back to Russia."

Justice Secretary Dominic Raab will be "travelling to the Hague" to help an international effort to gather evidence for Vladimir Putin's war crimes in Ukraine, the Foreign Secretary has said.

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy said: "The world watched Putin's premeditated stalking of Ukraine. We saw the lies, the false diplomacy and the manufactured grievances, and then we witnessed the destructive invasion of a sovereign state.

"This was a crime of aggression. The creation of a special tribunal will help the global community hold Vladimir Putin and his cronies personally responsible for this war, and it will complement the International Criminal Court's investigation.

"Ukraine's foreign minister backs it, several of our allies and partners back it, leading lawyers back it. Will the Foreign Secretary now do the same?"

The Foreign Secretary replied: "I completely agree with him that we are seeing horrific crimes taking place in Ukraine which are the responsibility of President Putin. That is why the United Kingdom have worked with our allies to put a case to the ICC.

"There were 38 states, which is the biggest-ever group referral to the ICC. I think that is the right route to tackle the war crimes which we consider could have taken place or are taking place in Ukraine, and what we want to do is work with countries to collect the evidence.

"The Justice Secretary will be travelling to the Hague to work on that specific issue."

The UK's sanctions have had a larger "overall financial impact" than those of other countries, despite having targeted fewer oligarchs directly, the Foreign Secretary has said.

Labour MP Matt Western (Warwick and Leamington) told the Commons: "Targeted sanctions are critical if we are to avoid significant collateral economic damage. However, despite what the Government may claim, the facts speak for themselves."

Reading from a printout of a pie chart, he added: "According to Castellum AI, the total Russian sanctions imposed by countries since 2014 is as follows: US - 1,200; Canada - 900; Switzerland 800; the EU- 766; the UK - just 271. This isn't leadership is it? Why is the Government so slow?"

Liz Truss replied: "We have led on cutting Russia off from Swift, we have led on closing our airspace and closing our ports.

"If we look at the total financial impact - because the aim here is to debilitate the Russian economy - the sanctions that we have put on banks, defence, aviation and oligarchs add up to £364 billion, for the US they add up to £340 billion and for the EU they add up to £124 billion.

"We have to look at the overall financial impact and it is much higher for the UK than for our allies, but of course we encourage them all to do more, we need to work together."

Boris Johnson told ministers that the Government would be "as generous as we could" to Ukrainian refugees.

The Prime Minister made the comments at Tuesday's Cabinet meeting, where Home Secretary Priti Patel updated her colleagues on the "extra resources" being put in to address the crisis.

A No 10 spokesman said: "The Prime Minister paid tribute to the Ukrainian people for their heroic continued resistance to Putin's unprovoked and illegitimate attack on the country.

"The Prime Minister said in the face of this brave resistance it was clear that (Vladimir) Putin miscalculated and was now increasing his level of violence, with evidence of indiscriminate attacks on civilians."

Mr Johnson "said he would do all that he could to support the country and this includes continuing to provide Ukraine armed forces with defensive lethal aid and equipment", while the UK was also the "largest humanitarian donor".

"The Prime Minister said that we would be as generous as we could in our support to Ukraine refugees and the Home Secretary set out the extra resources we're putting in place into processing visas for those Ukrainians who have been forced to flee," the spokesman said.

A new Cabinet committee will be set up to co-ordinated work on the response to the situation in Ukraine, chaired by Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Steve Barclay.

There will be an "economic cost for British people from these sanctions", Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has warned.

Conservative Mark Harper (Forest of Dean) asked: "If President Putin is to understand that we're serious then he also needs to know that we're going to be able to sustain that package of sanctions over a considerable period of time, and he's only going to believe that if we're honest with the public that it isn't just going to be a cost to Russia, but it's also going to have a significant economic cost here, and that we have to make the argument that it's necessary to pay it, to keep us safe and secure in the future, and I urge the Foreign Secretary to do so."

Ms Truss replied: "Of course, there will be an economic cost for British people from these sanctions, in terms of their energy bills and their cost of living, but that cost is nothing compared to the cost to the people of Ukraine of this horrific barbarism they're facing.

"It is also not compared to the cost of allowing Putin to succeed because what we know is if Putin does not lose in Ukraine, then this will not be the limit of his ambitions. He has already been clear that he wants to see a greater Russia, that could encompass countries like Moldova and the Baltic states.

"It is vitally important that we throw everything at sanctions, we help as much as we can with defensive weaponry into Ukraine because this is a battle that Putin needs to lose."

A new visa processing centre in France will be set up "in the coming days", Downing Street said.

The centre will be established in Lille, rather than at Calais where hundreds of Ukrainians have gathered seeking permission to come to the UK.

A No 10 spokesman said the centre was "en route to Calais" and "the Home Office are working quickly to set it up and we expect it to be set up in the coming days".

Asked why it was not being set up in Calais, where Ukrainians had already gathered, the spokesman said: "We obviously want to make sure that we can provide the appropriate level of support that those who are seeking to enter the UK require.

"Obviously the Home Office and Border Force are best placed to make a call on where that would be best based to help support those people who are making their way through France."

Asked what Ukrainians already in Calais should do, the spokesman said the new application centre would be set up shortly, "there is a helpline in place" and "facilities and staff in neighbouring countries to Ukraine".

Labour shadow Foreign Office minister Catherine West criticised the Government's efforts to offer refuge to Ukrainians, calling it a "shameful lack of humanity" and a "stain" on otherwise commendable efforts to address the crisis.

Speaking in the Commons, she said Poland has offered refuge to around a million refugees, Ireland several hundred thousand "but here in the UK barely a hundred being able to find refuge".

She said: "This is a shameful lack of humanity in the face of the greatest humanitarian catastrophe in Europe since World War Two.

"Does the Secretary of State agree this paltry effort to offer refuge is a stain on our otherwise commendable effort to the crisis in Ukraine and will she urgently work with Home Secretary, shake up the Home Office, and get this sorted?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "The Home Office have opened new centres for people to be able to put their applications in.

"They are running a 24/7 helpline, they do have the surgery for MPs in Portcullis House. And I would also point the honourable lady to the fact that we are the largest donor of humanitarian aid, £220 million.

"We want to help people also settle in region. Many people coming from Ukraine want to settle locally and we are also helping in that effort by sending our humanitarian teams to the region."

SNP foreign affairs spokesman Alyn Smith argued the "rhetoric is simply not matched by the reality" on Russian sanctions.

He said: "There is mounting frustration on these benches at the lack of progress and the lack of ambition in the UK's sanctions regime. The rhetoric is simply not matched by the reality. The reality is that the EU has gone further and faster on these sanctions matters.

"Can I urge the Foreign Secretary to work more closely with the EU, particularly in the due diligence on individual sanctions, and replicate the EU's sanctions in order to actually complement the EU's efforts and have a much more comprehensive sanctions regime."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "What (he) says simply isn't the case. What we are seeking to do here is debilitate the Russian economy, we have targeted and sanctioned £364 billion of assets, the EU have targeted £124 billion of assets.

"Yes, there are specific issues over individuals which we are addressing through the emergency legislation that went through the House and will be in place next week, and we will be able to sanction all the individuals that he is referring to, but it is simply not true to say that the UK has not led on this, we have led on it.

"We led on Swift, we led on banning ships from British ports ... we led on closing airspace to Russian planes and it simply isn't true what he's saying."

SNP international development spokesperson Chris Law MP criticised the Government's response to Ukrainians seeking to come to the UK, saying the Home Secretary should either change the policies or resign.

Speaking in the Commons, Mr Law said: "On International Women's Day, Europe is leading and united in welcoming over two million refugees, almost all of which are women and children, fleeing the bloody and murderous war by Putin against Ukraine and its citizens.

"Yet, pitifully, the UK stands at only 300 visas. Shamefully, this morning we learned in the Daily Telegraph that while Ireland has waived visas and expects to welcome 100,000 refugees, the UK Government has expressed fears that this will create a drug route to the UK."

He said: "Does the Foreign Secretary realise that the Home Office's continued xenophobic and inhumane immigration policy must be for her and her office a complete humiliation as it undermines the support for Ukraine's people, and will she now call on her colleague the Home Secretary either to reverse this policy or to resign?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "We've opened up two new routes. The Home Secretary has opened up a family route, she has opened up a sponsored humanitarian route, and we're also doing huge support in the region. We are working very closely with the Ukrainian Government as well as local governments like the Polish."

Britain must be willing to pay the price necessary to maintain peace in Europe, a Foreign Office minister has said amid calls to boost defence spending.

Conservative MP Julian Lewis, who chairs the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament, said the most important thing members of the G7 who are also members of Nato can do to secure European security is "to raise their defence budgets to levels that we used to spend when faced with this sort of confrontational approach from Russia".

James Cleverly, in his reply, said the UK has "consistently met our 2% of GDP target for Nato expenditure" and welcomed the German government's "bold" move to increase their defence spending.

He added in the Commons: "This situation in Ukraine is a reminder that peace comes at a price and we have to be willing to pay that price to maintain the peace."

SNP MP Stephen Flynn (Aberdeen South) said: "It's reported today that the UK Government regards Ukrainian refugees entering Ireland as a security threat; women and bairns fleeing Putin's bombs a security threat.

"When is this Government going to cut the hyperbole, cut the bureaucracy and get these poor souls sanctuary in this country?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster told MPs the the Government "will not take chances with the security of this country and our people".

Responding to an urgent question by Conservative MP Sir Geoffrey Clifton-Brown (The Cotswolds) on how the Home Office can speed up the urgent refugee applications coming from those leaving Ukraine, Mr Foster said: "This Government has brought forward a generous humanitarian offer to those Ukrainians who wants to come to the UK to escape this conflict.

"Last week, the Home Secretary announced a new Ukraine Family Scheme for those with family ties to the UK and we are extending the scheme further to include aunts, uncles, nephews, nieces, cousins and in-laws."

Mr Foster reminded the House that "a crucial part of the application process is providing biometrics so we can be sure applications are who they say they are".

He added: "Sadly, we are already seeing people presenting at Calais with false documents claiming to be Ukrainian.

"With incidents like Salisbury still in our minds, the Government will not take chances with the security of this country and our people. Our friends in the United States, Canada and Australia are rightly taking the same approach."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss was heckled by opposition MPs after suggesting officials were responsible for loan guarantees to a Russian coal company.

Labour MP Jessica Morden (Newport East) told the former international trade secretary: "The Financial Times reported today that UK taxpayers may be forced to foot a £43 million bill for loans taken out by Russia's biggest coal company and underwritten by the Government's export agency.

"Can I ask the Foreign Secretary if she knows who the international trade secretary was at the time that the deal was agreed with one of Russia's richest oligarchs and whether the minister in question personally authorised the agreement?"

Ms Truss replied: "I know from my time at trade that those agreements tend to be signed off by officials."

In response to a written parliamentary question from Labour's Emily Thornberry, trade minister Mike Freer said earlier this month: "UK Export Finance's remaining exposure from the underwriting of credit for buyers located in the Russian Federation between 2014/15 and 2020/21 as at January 31 2022 (the latest date for which complete figures are available) was £49,970,667."

The Government faced scrutiny over when a new visa processing centre for Ukrainians in Lille would be ready as Labour called on it to "do our historic bit" for refugees fleeing the war-torn country.

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: "Two million refugees have left Ukraine. Other countries are supporting hundreds and thousands of people. The Home Office is currently issuing just around 250 family scheme visas a day.

"Most want to stay close to home but some want to come here to join family or friends, and we should be helping them, instead most people are still being held up by our Home Office bureaucracy or being turned away."

Ms Cooper said that there are "600 people in Calais right now who have been turned back".

She added: "Yesterday the Home Secretary told the House twice that a visa centre en route to Calais has now been set up but it still doesn't exist.

"The Foreign Secretary just said it might be in Lille - nearly 72 miles from Calais, the Home Office said this morning that no decision had been taken. Well, which is it? Has it? Where is it? Can people get there yet?"

She also asked: "Will the Government urgently set up emergency visa centres at all major travel points, do security checks on the spot and then issue emergency visas for Ukrainians, for families, but not just families, so they can come here and the UK can do our historic bit to help refugees fleeing war in Europe as we have done before?"

The Home Office is looking to establish a presence in Lille and, potentially, to provide transport from Calais to Lille, Home Office minister Kevin Foster has said.

Mr Foster said: "We are looking to establish a presence in Lille and also potentially to look at transport as well options from Calais to Lille.

"There are issues with providing specific application points at the port, but we are looking at how we can do it and we expect that to be set up within the next 24 hours."

The Home Office minister's comments come as Tory MP Sir Geoffrey Clifton-Brown told the Commons: "I understand we require a process to securely check applications that are made, not only for security reasons, but also so that we can provide provide the support in this country.

"However, we surely could speed the process up. We need efficiency but also humanity when it when processing applications of refugees from Ukraine, and we should warmly welcome those refugees to this country."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster told the Commons more than 500 visas have been issued.

He said: "The (Ukraine Family) Scheme went live last Friday and has already seen over 10,000 applications submitted, of which over 500 visas have been issued with more being issued as we speak.

"We've also announced we're setting up a new humanitarian sponsorship visa and we're working at pace with our colleagues in the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities to set this up alongside, we'll also work with the devolved administrations."

Responding to Yvette Cooper, Home Office minister Kevin Foster told the Commons that the Government was alert to people "presenting themselves at Calais pretending to be Ukrainian".

Mr Foster said: "In terms of the point about setting up a facility in northern France, the answer on this was in the comments I have just made, in terms of Lille and in terms of setting it up in the next 24 hours."

He later added: "This is a complex scenario. We have seen, as I have touched on already in the statement, people presenting themselves at Calais port pretending to be Ukrainian.

"Now we have seen some opposite saying that is not an issue, but I think we only need to look at some of the statements coming out of the Kremlin to see which countries are very much in the cross-hairs of Mr Putin's Russia and regime, and also we have to look back a short period ago to see the impact on this country, in this country, of attacks by those pretending they had come here to look at a cathedral spire."

Conservative Sir Roger Gale (North Thanet) queried the Home Secretary's earlier remarks.

He said: "I'm sorry that the Home Secretary is not here today to answer. In response to my question yesterday, the Home Secretary said 'I have already made it clear in terms of the visa application centre that has now been set up en route to Calais that we have staff in Calais'.

"That was untrue and under any normal administration that in itself would be a resignation (issue). There is no visa centre at Lille yet, in spite of the fact that the Foreign Secretary earlier this morning said that there was.

"A week ago, the Home Secretary announced a humanitarian sponsorship visa, there is yet no humanitarian sponsorship visa. It's time the Home Office granted a visa waiver and allowed children and all of those adults with Ukrainian passports to come into the country now."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "I understand the Home Secretary clarified her remarks yesterday. There is a reason why we believe it is right that key security checks are done before people arrive here in the UK."

Conservative former Cabinet minister Dame Andrea Leadsom said she agrees with concerns about the speed of processing visas, but said it is "shocking to hear the opposition jeering at the prospect of the Government trying to protect UK people".

She told the Commons: "I think it's fantastic the breadth of support that the UK Government is offering to Ukraine, as recognised by Ukrainians.

"I also think it is shocking to hear the opposition jeering at the prospect of the Government trying to protect UK people from further such attacks as took place in Salisbury.

"Nevertheless, I do agree with colleagues who have a concern about the speed of processing of these visas."

Conservative former minister Damian Green said he does not understand why biometric checks cannot be done once people arrive in the UK.

He asked if the minister could give "some indication whether it will be weeks or months before the humanitarian sponsorship route is open".

He said: "I take his point about security and the need for biometric checks. I don't understand why those biometric checks can't be done in this country when we have got people safe and sound."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "Those who are applying to this are actually in safe countries as we speak.

"There's no requirement for people ... to stay in Ukraine to make an application, in fact there is no need at all if they can safely make their way across the border to one of the safe and democratic countries next door that we are supporting to provide support to those that are crossing the border."

He said: "He would know from his own experience a range of reasons, if we bring people into the country to perform checks, certainly we don't want to go down paths of things like using immigration detention powers or things like that whilst certain checks are undertaken, which we do not believe would be appropriate at all."

The minister said elsewhere during the debate that "it should come as no surprise that those countries that are least popular with the Putin regime, ourselves, the United States, Canada, Australia, are taking similar approaches" to the issue.

Conservative former immigration minister Mark Harper has told MPs the Government needs to "grip the pace of this".

He told the Commons: "As a former immigration minister, I am very sympathetic to the need to do appropriate security checks but I do have to say to the minister, as somebody who has gone out publicly to defend the Government on this issue, we do need to grip the pace of this and it will require ministers to take decisions to move things along quickly.

"So, can I say to him, on the humanitarian sponsorship route, the Home Secretary announced it a week ago. I heard what my right honourable friend said about weeks or months, I was thinking more days.

"I would expect the minister speaking on behalf of the Government to be at that dispatch box by Thursday to set this out. We have got to start working at the pace that these events require. So, can I ask him to give that commitment for an update on Thursday for the humanitarian sponsorship?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "Certainly, the Government will be happy to update members on what's happening on Thursday, whether that's through a dear colleague or other appropriate forum.

"But certainly our intention is not that this is going ... certainly not going to take months, and certainly it's more in the weeks before we start welcoming people into the UK.

"But this will be one of the most, as I say, an unlimited offer that reflects the generosity and people wish to make, but I appreciate we now need to get on and get it launched."

SNP home affairs spokesman Stuart McDonald said: "It is time to stop messing about with the broken bureaucracy, it's time to scrap it altogether, no more visas required. That is how we quickly fulfil our obligations to the people of Ukraine."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "There are people presenting with false documents, there are people making claims that are not true."

Conservative former immigration minister Caroline Nokes said: "Snails also move at pace, there is no date set yet for a humanitarian sponsorship visa and, as a result, those people coming forward with generous offers are advising their Ukrainian friends to apply for visitors visas, but what of those who do not have passports, what of those children who are completely undocumented, when (he) says he is moving at pace it needs to be a great deal faster."

Labour chair of the Home Affairs Committee Dame Diana Johnson called for clarity on the humanitarian visa, asking: "Is this under consideration by the Home Office, as it's quite clear there is a lot of support for a humanitarian visa to be granted?"

Mr Foster replied: "We've got the process in place as it stands for those who have relatives, we are extending that to well beyond the normal relatives and dependants that we look at, and the wider sponsorship route will give many other opportunities for people to come to the UK."

Labour MP Clive Efford described a visa centre in Poland in "complete chaos" and said the situation was "unacceptable".

The MP for Eltham told the Commons: "One visa centre in Poland has closed its doors.

"It's no longer allowing walk-in appointments. It's 81 degrees outside, there's an 81-year-old woman outside and women and children.

"There's plenty of room inside but they won't open the doors. This is complete chaos and unacceptable. What's the minister going to do about it?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "I'm happy to look at the particular example cited, but we are surging staff and resource.

"We are conscious of the position there, about how we can increase capacity, ensure we can get as many people in as possible."

Conservative former minister Dr Andrew Murrison asked the Government why the Republic of Ireland has admitted already more than 2,000 refugees from Ukraine but the UK has "come nowhere even close to that".

Speaking in the Commons, the MP for South West Wiltshire said: "Salisbury borders my constituency, I fully accept the need for security checks, particularly on adult males.

"But the fact remains that the Republic of Ireland, with which we share a common travel area, has a population of five million, but has committed to 100,000 refugees from Ukraine, has admitted already over 2,000.

"This country, population 67 million, has come nowhere even close to that. Why not?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "First I'd say that if you look at what we're doing, we estimate about 100,000 people potentially eligible for the family route and we have an unlimited position in relation to the sponsorship route, which could well see us exceed quite significantly the numbers offered by the Republic of Ireland."

The UK needs to "deliver a generous scheme" for Ukrainian refugees with first steps in place by Wednesday, a Conservative former minister has said.

Conservative MP Steve Brine (Winchester) said: "So much about this doesn't feel right. My constituents know what they see. All of this is far too robotic and, to take up the point made on the other side, there is very little Christian compassion being shown at the moment.

"Surely we are past the UK saying we are going to have a generous scheme? It is time to deliver a generous scheme.

"The family scheme is too slow, the humanitarian sponsorship route which I raised in the Commons yesterday with the Secretary of State is still in design over at the Department of Communities, and I don't want the minister to say that is another department. He is the minister at the box.

"At the very least, can we have a very simple online gateway up and running tomorrow where constituents who want to help can at least register their interest? There is so much compassion and want to help, and people are not able to do so."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster said many councils "are already offering to take registrations, details and offers of help as part of the process of preparing for the launch of the humanitarian sponsorship route", adding: "Certainly it is something that I am encouraging my own constituents to do and I know he will be encouraging his own to think of what offers that they can make."

Former de facto deputy prime minister Damian Green said it is taking "too long" to set up the Ukrainian refugee schemes and called for the Home Office to redeploy people to visa application centres to speed up the process.

He questioned why the humanitarian sponsorship scheme was still not open, despite ministers announcing it last week, and criticised the "sheer confusion" involved with the Ukraine Family Scheme after it was suggested refugees would have to go to Lille rather than Calais to apply.

Speaking to BBC Radio 4's World At One programme, the Conservative MP said: "I think the underlying problem is that what the Home Office is trying to do, and this is the Home Office as an institution, is try to tweak the existing immigration system rather than recognise that this is a unique situation.

"(There is) war in Europe - that has not been seen for decades - and actually it requires a more radical response."

The former Home Office minister added: "If the problem is that there aren't enough people at visa application centres, then get more people in those visa application centres.

"If that means they have to be taken off other duties, then so be it."

Conservative MP Alec Shelbrooke (Elmet and Rothwell) told the Home Office to "get a grip" on processing visa applications for Ukrainian refugees.

He told the Commons: "I'm proud of my constituents who are coming forward to offer as much help as possible, I'm proud of the Prime Minister in the way he's leading the world, but the Home Office is cutting off their legs and it is simply not good enough.

"Does the Home Office recognise that this is a war of the likes that has not been seen for 80 years in Europe? We don't want to stand in this House and listen to plans and processes, we want dates, we want action and the Home Office must react far more quickly than it's doing and get to the point of hubs of people, get them processed and get them in.

"This is a disgrace. When the minister leaves the despatch box I ask him to go back to the Home Office and tell them to get a grip."

Siobhan Baillie, Conservative MP for Stroud, said: "Stroud people want to understand what the chuff is going on."

Conservative MP Julian Sturdy said his York Outer constituents are ready and willing to offer help, adding: "The only barrier to their support seems to be Home Office bureaucracy.

"Now is not the time for box ticking and red tape, now is the time to do everything we can; no more excuses, we have to move the process forward, we have to speed it up."

The Government was called on to condemn reports of Ukrainian people from BAME backgrounds being turned away after fleeing to the borders with the war-torn nation's neighbours.

Labour MP for Bradford East Imran Hussain told MPs: "I am deeply concerned about reports that there are refugees from a BAME background who are being stopped at the Ukrainian border and turned away.

"Does the minister agree that these reports are despicable and can he tell me what the Government is doing to ensure the safe passage of all refugees fleeing from this horrific conflict?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "Certainly it would be concerning if people are being turned away - but obviously we don't control the Ukrainian border, he will appreciate.

"Obviously there is Ukrainian law in relation to men aged 18 to 60 who are required to stay in Ukraine in terms of military service including dual nationals, which again is a decision taken by Ukraine.

"But, certainly, we would be clear that race and ethnicity should not play any part in terms of the decision at the border in allowing people to leave and enter into the safe and democratic countries next door, and then potentially enter into the UK via our schemes."

Boris Johnson said Vladimir Putin was intent on creating a new "Russian sphere of influence" controlled from Moscow.

At a meeting with the leaders of the Visegrad group of countries - the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland - the Prime Minister said: "When I first had the pleasures of going to your wonderful countries decades ago, all of them were behind what was then called an Iron Curtain and under the Russian sphere of influence.

"What we now see today is an assault on another free, democratic, independent European country with the intention of trying to create, again, a Russian sphere of influence, a new Yalta, a new zone of control from Moscow."

At the Lancaster House meeting in London, Mr Johnson said the countries were working together "diplomatically, politically, by means of our economic strength" and with defensive military support "to help our Ukrainian friends in their hour of desperation and need".

French President Emmanuel Macron tweeted to say he and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz had discussed the Ukraine war with Chinese leader Xi Jinping.

Mr Macron tweeted: "The German Chancellor and I spoke to the Chinese President this morning about the tragic consequences of the war in Ukraine. President Xi supported our action towards reaching a ceasefire and ensuring the people have access to humanitarian aid."

Boris Johnson said the UK stands "ready to increase its military support to Poland, should they require it", during a meeting with the country's prime minister on Tuesday afternoon.

Mr Johnson told Mateusz Morawiecki that the UK stands in solidarity with Poland, and thanked him for "the Poles' kindness to the Ukrainian people at such a horrendous time", a Downing Street spokesperson said.

The UK Prime Minister is said to have added that "Ukrainians were suffering because of President (Vladimir) Putin's barbaric actions, and the West needed to continue to impose debilitating sanctions".

"The leaders agreed that the UK and Poland should continue work together on ensuring defensive aid reached Ukraine, and the Prime Minister said the UK stood ready to increase its military support to Poland, should they require it," the spokesperson said.

"The leaders agreed that they would continue to stay in close touch in the coming days and weeks, and will work at pace to build even deeper strategic ties."

The UK is expected to join the US in announcing a ban on Russian oil imports.

US President Joe Biden is set to make his announcement shortly, following pleas from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to cut off the imports to starve Vladimir Putin of revenue.

UK Government sources indicated an announcement from Westminster was due at around 4pm.

Former government minister Richard Harrington has been appointed as the Minister for Refugees, Downing Street has said.

Mr Harrington, who stood down as a MP at the 2019 general election, will be made a life peer sitting in the House of Lords.

Boris Johnson has said the move to ban Russian oil and gas will punish Vladimir Putin's regime but will be introduced in a way that "won't affect" UK businesses.

Speaking to broadcasters, the Prime Minister said: "The UK is less exposed (than European allies) but clearly we do have diesel that comes from Russia and we can't move overnight.

"But we can certainly do it and we can do it in a way that doesn't disrupt supply, that ensures we have substitute supplies on stream in an orderly way and in a timetable that won't affect UK business, won't affect UK manufacturing, road haulage or other parts of our industry but will punish the regime of Vladimir Putin."

Boris Johnson said it is "clear" the Russian invasion is not going according to Vladimir Putin's timetable.

He said the UK is doing "everything that we can to help" Ukraine, and "the best thing really is for Putin to understand that his aggression is not paying off".

"I believe that he has gravely miscalculated," he told reporters.

"It's clear that the Russian operation, the Russian invasion is not going according to the timetable that he set out.

"And I think it would be not just in the interests of humanity and the world, but in the interests of Putin as well if he were now to withdraw and desist."

Boris Johnson has accepted that the move to phase out Russian oil and gas by the end of the year will not hit Vladimir Putin's regime immediately as Ukraine remains under assault.

Asked by broadcasters, the Prime Minister said: "Yes, but what it will do is add to the pressure we're already seeing on Russia and don't forget that the economic impact of the sanctions that the UK has led has been extreme.

"The Russian stock market hasn't opened for almost a week, the rouble has tanked and the noose is tightening."

Boris Johnson has said there will be a "Marshall Plan" to rebuild Ukraine.

Speaking to broadcasters after holding meetings with the leaders of V4 nations, the Prime Minister said: "There was agreement also on the need to show the people of Ukraine now that whatever happens once a free, sovereign, independent Ukraine is protected and restored, we will rebuild and we will have a Marshall Plan to rebuild Ukraine."

Britain is prepared to accept "many, many thousands" of refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine, Boris Johnson has said.

In a pooled clip for broadcasters, the Prime Minister said the numbers could run into the hundreds of thousands.

"People in this country are incredibly generous towards people fleeing persecution or war zones. Believe me, we are going to be very, very, generous again," he said.

"We don't have a border with Ukraine. Plainly many EU countries do. Many refugees want to stay in the region because they want to go back to their country.

"But what we will do, what we are already doing is setting out a huge and very generous programme to allow many, many thousands - it could be hundreds of thousands - to come to our country.

"I know that is what the UK people would want."

Boris Johnson has said the move to phase out Russian oil and gas is an important "first step".

Speaking to broadcasters, the Prime Minister said: "What we're doing is making the first step and it's something I think is an important thing to do.

"If you think back to where we were even a few days ago, I don't think people would've been talking about moving away from dependence on Russian oil and gas because these are very, very big dependencies that European countries have."

Asked about the UK's refusal to introduce a no-fly zone over Ukraine, Boris Johnson said: "I want to be able to help as much as I can, but I have got to tell you that I think (Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky) is a great statesman and understands the position very well.

"Of course, he's doing everything he can to protect his country, and the UK is doing everything that we can to help."

Boris Johnson has defended the need for border checks on refugees fleeing to Britain from Ukraine.

The Prime Minister said: "I think it is important that when you do have people coming to your country, maybe coming from a war zone where their previous history is unclear, what they have been up to, it is important to have checks.

"That is one thing we are able to do. I think having some sort of check, some sort of control is an important feature of the way we do things. I think it is valuable.

"It doesn't mean we aren't going to be massively, massively generous. But I think to have a system of simply uncontrolled immigration isn't right."

MPs gave a standing ovation to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky as he addressed the Commons.

Mr Zelensky appeared via a live video link from Ukraine.

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK Vadym Prystaiko was sat in the gallery.

The BBC is to resume English language reporting from Russia tonight.

The corporation had suspended the work of all its news journalists and support staff in the country after authorities passed legislation cracking down on foreign outlets.

On Tuesday, a BBC spokesman said: "We have considered the implications of the new legislation alongside the urgent need to report from inside Russia.

"After careful deliberation we have decided to resume English language reporting from Russia this evening (Tuesday 8 March), after it was temporarily suspended at the end of last week.

"We will tell this crucial part of the story independently and impartially, adhering to the BBC's strict editorial standards. The safety of our staff in Russia remains our number one priority."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky gave an address to a full House of Commons.

Members of the House of Lords also filled the upper galleries of the chamber to watch the speech alongside MPs.

Screens were installed in the Commons in preparation for the address in the same place that they were installed during the virtual parliament held during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.

Addressing the House of Commons via video link, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said "we do not want to lose what we have, what is ours, our country Ukraine".

According to the English language translation on Parliament TV, Mr Zelensky said: "Mr Speaker, all the Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing all the people of the United Kingdom and all the people from the country with a big history.

"I am addressing you as a citizen, as a president, of also a big country, with a dream and big effort.

"I would like to tell you about the 13 days of war, the war that we didn't start and we didn't want. However we have to conduct this war, we do not want to lose what we have, what is ours, our country Ukraine."

Concluding his speech to the Commons, Volodymyr Zelensky thanked Boris Johnson by name and called on the UK for more support.

Speaking through a translator provided by Parliament TV, he said: "We are looking for your help, for the help of Western counties.

"We are thankful for this help and I am grateful to you Boris.

"Please increase the pressure of sanctions against this country (Russia) and please recognise this country as a terrorist country.

"Please make sure sure that our Ukrainian skies are safe.

"Please make sure that you do what needs to be done and what is stipulated by the greatness of your country.

"Glory to Ukraine and glory to the United Kingdom."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson, responding to the speech made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, told the House of Commons: "Never before in all our centuries of our parliamentary democracy has the House listened to such an address.

"In a great European capital now within range of Russian guns President Volodymyr Zelensky is standing firm for democracy and for freedom."

President Volodymyr Zelensky told MPs: "Just the same way you once didn't want to lose your country when the Nazis started to fight your country and you had to fight for Britain.

"Thirteen days of this struggle ... at 4 o clock in the morning we were attacked by cruise missiles. Everybody woke up and people with children..."

He added: "We have been fighting for our country, with our army."

He went on: "Russian forces demanded that we lay down arms, we need to continue fighting."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said "over 50 children have been killed".

According to the English language translation on Parliament TV, Mr Zelensky added: "These are the children that could have lived but these people have taken them away from us.

"Ukraine were not looking to have this war. The Ukraine have not been looking to become big but they have become big over the days of this war. We are the country that are saving people despite having to fight one of the biggest armies in the world. We have to fight the helicopters, rockets."

He added: "The question for us now is to be or not to be. Oh no, this Shakespearean question. For 13 days this question could have been asked but now I can give you a definitive answer. It's definitely yes, to be.

"And I would like to remind you the words that the United Kingdom have already heard, which are important again. We will not give up and we will not lose."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said of Volodymyr Zelensky: "In his righteous defence I believe he has moved the hearts of everybody in this House.

"At this moment ordinary Ukrainians are defending their homes and their families against a brutal assault and they are, by their actions, inspiring millions by their courage and their devotion."

Mr Johnson said "one of the proudest boasts in the free world" is "I am Ukrainian" - which he said in Ukrainian.

He said: "This is a moment to put our political differences aside and I know I speak for the whole House when I say that Britain and our allies are determined to press on with supplying our Ukrainian friends with the weapons they need to defend their homeland as they deserve, to press on with tightening the economic vice around Vladimir Putin and we will stop importing Russian oil."

Mr Johnson went on: "And we will employ every method that we can - diplomatic, humanitarian and economic - until Vladimir Putin has failed in this disastrous venture and Ukraine is free once more."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer told the Commons: "Every one of us has been moved by the bravery, the resolve, and the leadership of President (Volodymyr) Zelensky.

"Invading troops march through his streets, shells rain down on his people, and assassins seek his life. No-one would have blamed him for fleeing but instead, he has stayed in Kyiv to lead the Ukrainian people and to fight.

"He has reminded us that our freedom and our democracy are invaluable. He has prompted a world into action, where too often we have let Putin have his way. He has inspired the Ukrainian nation to resist and frustrated the Russian war machine.

"He has shown his strength and we must show him, and the Ukrainian people, our commitment and support.

"Labour stands for the unity at home and abroad that will isolate the Putin regime. Labour stands for the toughest sanctions that will cripple the Russian state. Labour stands for providing Ukraine with the arms it needs to fight off their invaders.

"Labour stands with President Zelensky, with Ukraine, with democracy. Slava Ukraini."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford told the Commons: "President (Volodymyr) Zelensky, we salute you. We stand with the people of Ukraine on the basis of the act of aggression, on the act of war of Putin.

"We must do all that we can to send support to Ukraine, to send the weapons that they need to defend themselves, to make sure that we sanction the regime in Moscow, that we deliver the clearest message to President Putin - that this will end in failure for him, that he will face justice at the international court.

"We must stand in this House, throughout these islands, throughout the western world in defence of democracy, in defence of sovereignty.

"Peace, justice and the sovereignty of Ukraine must prevail."

Mr Blackford said those who need sanctuary must find a "welcoming hand" in the UK.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss tweeted: "Thank you (Volodymyr Zelensky) for addressing (the House of Commons) live from Ukraine.

"Your bravery has inspired the world. The UK stands with you and Ukraine. We are doing all we can to support Ukraine in its fight for freedom and democracy."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky echoed British war leader Sir Winston Churchill in his address to the House of Commons.

According to the English language translation on Parliament TV, Mr Zelensky said: "We will fight until the end, at sea, in the air. We will continue fighting for our land, whatever the cost."

The Ukrainian president added: "We will fight in the forest, in the fields, on the shores, in the streets."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his Czech counterpart Petr Fiala agreed to work with European allies to ensure Russia can "no longer control energy supplies".

Following their Lancaster House meeting, a Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The leaders agreed that Russia's invasion in Ukraine was unacceptable, barbaric and devastating to the Ukrainian and Russian people.

"Both leaders agreed on the need for the West to wean itself off Russian oil and gas, and said they would work with allies across Europe to ensure Russia could no longer control energy supplies.

"The two nations agreed to further cooperation on cyber resilience, and to continue to strengthen the close ties between the UK and Czech Republic."

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps has said he has made it a criminal offence for any Russian planes to enter UK airspace.

In a tweet, he said: "I have made it a criminal offence for any Russian aircraft to enter UK airspace and now HMG can detain these jets.

"We will suffocate (Vladimir) Putin's cronies' ability to continue living as normal while thousands of innocent people die."

Coca-Cola has announced that it is suspending its business in Russia.

In a statement on its website, the drinks giant said on Tuesday: "The Coca-Cola Company announced today that it is suspending its business in Russia.

"Our hearts are with the people who are enduring unconscionable effects from these tragic events in Ukraine.

"We will continue to monitor and assess the situation as circumstances evolve."

Starbucks has also announced that it is "suspending all business activity in Russia".

The company said that its partner, Alshaya Group, which operates at least 100 cafes in Russia, will "provide support to nearly 2,000 partners in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood".

Starbucks chief executive Kevin Johnson said in a statement posted to the website on Tuesday that the company condemns "the horrific attacks on Ukraine by Russia and our hearts go out to all those affected".

He said: "We continue to watch the tragic events unfold and, today, we have decided to suspend all business activity in Russia, including shipment of all Starbucks products.

"Our licensed partner has agreed to immediately pause store operations and will provide support to the nearly 2,000 partners in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood.

"Through this dynamic situation, we will continue to make decisions that are true to our mission and values and communicate with transparency."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220308ei38000xd


ZELENSKY GIVES CHURCHILLIAN ADDRESS TO MPS AS UK ANNOUNCES RUSSIAN OIL BAN
By Patrick Daly, PA Political Correspondent
1075 字
2022 年 3 月 8 日 22:37 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky invoked British war leader Sir Winston Churchill in an emotional address to MPs, vowing to fight invading Russian troops in the air, sea and on the streets.

In a speech to the House of Commons that was greeted before and after by standing ovations, Mr Zelensky repeated his call for a no-fly zone to be established by the West, begging for the UK to "make sure that our Ukrainian skies are safe".

The historic address came shortly after Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng announced the UK will phase out the import of Russian oil and oil products by the end of the year as part of a ratcheting up of sanctions on Moscow for the attack, which was launched on February 24.

Elsewhere, there has been frustration at the slow progress in processing Ukrainian refugees, with Defence Secretary Ben Wallace offering military support to the Home Office to help deal with the backlog of people trying to get into the UK.

During his address to the Commons, Mr Zelensky - who is said to have to keep his whereabouts a secret due to the threat of assassination in Kyiv - appealed to MPs by quoting from Shakespeare and paraphrasing Churchill.

In a nod to one of the former British prime minister's most inspiring speeches of the war, Mr Zelensky said: "We will fight until the end, at sea, in the air. We will continue fighting for our land, whatever the cost.

"We will fight in the forest, in the fields, on the shores, in the streets."

He also pressed home the desire of Ukrainians for their independence to continue, despite their homeland being under attack by Kremlin forces, with a line from Hamlet.

"The question for us now is to be or not to be," he said, in a translation by Parliament TV.

"Oh no, this Shakespearean question. For 13 days this question could have been asked but now I can give you a definitive answer. It's definitely yes, to be."

The embattled president said Ukraine faced a similar dilemma to the one Britain encountered in the Second World War.

He said the current conflict, in which he said 50 children had been killed, was akin to when Britain "didn't want to lose your country when the Nazis started to fight your country and you had to fight".

Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who received a personal thanks from Mr Zelensky for his support, told the Commons after the speech that "never before in all our centuries of our parliamentary democracy has the House listened to such an address".

"In a great European capital now within range of Russian guns, President Volodymyr Zelensky is standing firm for democracy and for freedom," Mr Johnson said.

Before the speech, the UK and the US jointly announced they would be banning the import of Russian oil and related products by 2023 as the allies looked to pile further economic pressure on President Vladimir Putin.

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said the nine-month delay until impact meant the fuel sector and other firms would have "more than enough time to replace Russian imports".

With 8% of UK oil demand coming from Russia, the Cabinet minister urged businesses to "use this year to ensure a smooth transition so that consumers will not be affected", with support given to find alternative supplies.

No UK petrol demand comes from Russia, nor heating or fuel oil, according to the Digest of UK Energy Statistics (Dukes) 2020.

However, 18% of total demand for diesel and 5% of jet fuel comes from Russia.

Beis officials said the ban, with the import of Russian oil making up almost half of Russian exports and 17% of federal government revenue through taxation, would "choke off a valuable source of income" for the Kremlin.

Speaking in Washington, President Joe Biden said the US joining in with the phased oil prohibition would be a "powerful blow" to the war being raged by Mr Putin.

But he warned Americans that the sanction would have ripple effects at home, telling them that "defending freedom is going to cost" after Brent crude rose 7% to 131.95 dollars per barrel on Tuesday after media reports surfaced about the ban.

A year ago, Brent was trading at around 61 dollars per barrel.

The Prime Minister suggested that diesel prices could be set to rise further in Britain after the announcement, with prices at the forecourts already having soared following Moscow's attack on Kyiv, but predicted the decision "won't affect" domestic businesses.

Mr Johnson said the UK was "less exposed" than some European nations when it came to restricting Russian oil, with the European Union importing more than a quarter of its oil from Moscow.

During talks at Lancaster House, Downing Street said Mr Johnson and his Czech counterpart Petr Fiala agreed to work with European allies to ensure Russia can "no longer control energy supplies", in a sign of a further push to come on blocking the Kremlin's oil sales.

The Prime Minister met with Mr Fiala as part of discussions with the Visegrad group of countries, which also includes Slovakia, Hungary and Poland.

The V4 have received some of the most refugees since the conflict in Ukraine broke out, but the UK Government has faced flak, including from Conservative MPs, for the lack of visas it has so far handed out to those fleeing.

Home Office minister Kevin Foster said in the Commons that the figure for visas issued had risen to more than 500 - up from 300 on Monday night - while a new processing centre at Lille is expected to be set up within the next 24 hours.

The Prime Minister, speaking after his leaders meeting, said the numbers of refugees being accepted could run into the "hundreds of thousands" via what he called a "very generous programme".

Meanwhile, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said it is now a criminal offence for any Russian planes to enter UK airspace, after a ban was previously announced.

Mr Shapps wrote to airports saying he can order them to detain Russian aircraft and has the power to order the Civil Aviation Authority to terminate registration of planes owned by sanctioned individuals.

"We will suffocate Putin's cronies' ability to continue living as normal while thousands of innocent people die," he tweeted.

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220308ei38000b5


Live updates: Ukraine: Plant staff forced to record address
By The Associated Press
4827 字
2022 年 3 月 9 日 04:51 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest developments on the Russia-Ukraine war[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine] :

LVIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s energy minister said Russian forces that now control a Ukrainian nuclear plant are forcing the exhausted staff to record an address that they plan to use for propaganda purposes.

Russian troops have been in control of the Zaporizhzhia plant, the largest in Europe, since seizing it an attack on Friday that set a building on fire and raised fears of a nuclear disaster. It was later determined that no radiation was released.

Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko said on Facebook that about 500 Russian soldiers and 50 pieces of heavy equipment are inside the station. He said the Ukrainian staff are “physical and emotionally exhausted.”

Russia describes the war as a “special military operation” and says it is conducting targeted attacks. Halushchenko's reference to propaganda appears to refer to Russian efforts to show it is not endangering Ukrainian civilians or infrastructure.

___

LOS ANGELES — Lawmakers in the second most populous city in the U.S. on Tuesday approved a resolution condemning the actions of Russian President Vladimir Putin in waging war against Ukraine.

The Los Angeles City Council voted 14-0 to pass the resolution, which also urges international divestment of holdings in Russia.

The Board of Supervisors in neighboring Orange County unanimously passed a similar resolution Tuesday. It encourages the county to sever ties with any Russian-backed bank or financial institution. The county currently doesn’t have any direct investments in Russia.

In Los Angeles, members of the City Council expressed support for Ukraine, denounced “horrific acts against humanity” and expressed concern that history is repeating itself.

“What’s happening in Ukraine right now is close to home for me,” Councilmember Paul Koretz said.

“My mother’s family fled Kyiv a hundred years ago to avoid the Russian pogroms, and I’ve been sick to my stomach seeing the photos of innocent men, women and especially children who have been murdered in this invasion,” he said.

Koretz also said it was important to support LA’s Russian communities and businesses.

“They are not responsible for the actions of an out-of-control madman,” he said.

___

LOS ANGELES — A former Miss Ukraine winner on Tuesday described her journey with her young son to escape Kyiv and her homeland as Russian troops invaded the country last month, and called on countries to do more to arm her countrymen and women.

Veronika Didusenko, who was crowned Miss Ukraine in 2018, said she and her 7-year-old son were awoken on the first day of the invasion to the sounds of air raid sirens and explosions, and they joined thousands of others on the road to evacuate.

“On my ... journey to the border of Ukraine, there was no place where sirens would not sound, where rockets and bombs would not explode,” she said.

Didusenko told her story at a news conference in the Los Angeles office of women’s rights attorney Gloria Allred, who said she became friends with the former beauty queen several months ago.

Didusenko and her son eventually made it to Moldova and traveled through other European countries before reaching Geneva, Switzerland. Didusenko said she made the “heartbreaking” decision to leave her son there to travel to the United States to hold the press conference with Allred.

Didusenko said she and Allred decided the situation on the ground in parts of her homeland was an important story to highlight on International Women’s Day.

“Right now, millions of Ukrainian children and their mothers are trembling at every sound in the subway stations and bomb shelters. Even more heartbreaking that women are giving birth in such conditions in these shelters,” Didusenko said.

She said Ukrainians are committed to defending their country, but need more help from other nations.

___

WASHINGTON — Additional air defense capabilities are the number one priority for Ukraine’s military right now, the country’s U.S. defense attache, Maj. Gen. Borys Kremenetskyi, said Tuesday after returning from a meeting at the Pentagon.

“It can be ground based air defense systems. It can be fighter jets, whatever possible,” he said in an interview with The Associated Press.

He said there are countries around the world that have Soviet-produced air defense systems that the Ukrainians already know how to operate. “The U.S. government can also motivate those countries to provide us this equipment,” he said.

They also need additional anti-tank, anti-armor weapons and coastal defense capabilities to defend against Russian ships at the south.

He said Ukraine is grateful for the support it has gotten from the U.S. and its allies, which has allowed Ukraine to slow the Russian advance. “As combat is ongoing, we need more right now,” Kremenetskyi said. “So we try to work with our partners to have it as soon as possible.”

___

UNITED NATIONS — Natalia Mudrenko, the highest-ranking woman at Ukraine’s U.N. Mission, is accusing Russia of effectively holding civilians “hostage,” and says “the critical situation” in Mariupol and other cities demands immediate action by world leaders and humanitarian and medical organizations.

She told a U.N. Security Council meeting Tuesday afternoon on women in conflict that civilians, mostly women and children, “are not allowed to leave and the humanitarian aid is not let in.”

“If they try to leave, Russians open fire and kill them,” Mudrenko said, her voice shaking with emotion. “They are running out of food and water, and they die.”

The Russian military has denied firing on convoys and charged that the Ukrainian side was blocking the evacuation effort.

Mudrenko said a 6-year-old girl died Monday in the besieged city of Mariupol on the Azov Sea, “alone in the last moments of her life as her mother was killed by Russian shelling.”

On Tuesday in the Mykolaiv region, she said “Russian occupiers fired at a van with a group of female teachers of the local orphanage (and) three of them were killed.” She said there are also “cases of child sexual violence committed by occupiers.”

Mudrenko said the war has highlighted the role of Ukrainian women in defending their country, saying there were 57,000 women in the army at the start of 2021, comprising 22.8% of the force.

___

LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked the leaders of the U.S. and Britain for banning Russian oil imports.

“This is a powerful signal to the whole world,” he said in his daily address to the nation at the close of another day of war. “Either Russia will respect international law and not wage wars, or it will have no money.”

Zelenskyy said when he went to address the British Parliament, “the scariest figure was the 50 Ukrainian children killed in 13 days of war. But then in an hour it became 52 children. I will never forgive this. And I know that you will never forgive the occupiers.”

Zelenskyy called for negotiations with Russia on ending the war. “The war must be stopped. We need to sit down at the negotiating table, but for honest, substantive talks.”

____

WASHINGTON — The Pentagon said Tuesday that Poland’s offer to give its MiG-29 fighter jets to the U.S. so they can be passed to Ukraine raises serious concerns for the NATO alliance and the plan is not “a tenable one.”

Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said in a statement that the prospect of jets departing from a U.S./NATO base in Germany to fly into airspace contested with Russia in the Ukraine war is concerning. He said it’s not clear to the U.S. that there is a substantive rationale for it.

The U.S., he said, will continue to talk to Poland about the matter.

____

DETROIT — McDonald’s, Starbucks, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and General Electric all announced Tuesday they were suspending their business in Russia in response to the country’s invasion of Ukraine.

McDonald’s is temporarily closing all of its 850 restaurants in Russia, but will continue paying its 62,000 employees there.

The Chicago-based burger giant said it will temporarily close 850 stores but continue paying its 62,000 employees in Russia “who have poured their heart and soul into our McDonald’s brand.”

Starbucks is temporarily closing 130 franchised stores but its franchisee will continue paying 2,000 Russian workers.

Coca-Cola said it is suspending its business; its bottling partner has 10 plants in Russia. PepsiCo is suspending soda sales but will keep making milk and baby formula.

GE said it was suspending its business except for essential medical equipment and electrical service.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian authorities say that Russian warplanes have carried new strikes on residential areas in eastern and central parts of the country.

Ukrainian officials said that that two people, including a 7-year-old child, were killed in the town of Chuhuiv just east of Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine late Tuesday. And in the city of Malyn in the Zhytomyr region west of the capital Kyiv at least five people, including two children, were killed in a Russian air strike.

The Russian artillery has pounded the outskirts of Kyiv, forcing civilians to hide in shelters while water, food and power supplies have been cut, said Yaroslav Moskalenko, an official who coordinates humanitarian efforts in the Kyiv region.

He said that the shelling made it impossible to evacuate the bodies of five people who died when their vehicle was fired upon in Borodianka near Kyiv and the bodies of 12 patients of a psychiatric hospital there. He said that another 200 patients were stuck there without food and medicines.

____

KYIV, Ukraine -- Belarusians living in Ukraine have formed a military unit and are preparing to join the fight against Russia.

Jan Derbeiko, 26, said he has been living in Kyiv since November 2020 after being forced to leave Belarus for participating in protests against President Alexander Lukashenko.

“I had a job and I had plans for future, but the war happened here,” Derbeiko said. “At that moment, I decided to stay here. I’ve already lost my homeland and now my new home is being destroyed.”

Derbeiko urged all Belarusians “who have a conscience and honor left” to provide “maximum support to the Ukrainians.”

He said the squadron of Belarusians, which grows each day, he is preparing to take their positions when the Russian soldiers attack Kyiv.

____

Russia’s Central Bank has sharply tightened currency restrictions amid crippling Western sanctions over the Russian war in Ukraine.

The bank ordered the country’s commercial banks to cap the amount clients can withdraw from their hard currency deposits at $10,000. Any withdrawals above that amount would be converted to rubles at the current exchange rates.

It also told commercial banks to stop selling hard currency to clients, a measure that will likely foment a black market for foreign currency. The draconian restrictions are unprecedented since the Soviet times when the authorities maintained strict hard currency controls. The Central Bank noted that the currency controls were tightened because of the Western sanctions that froze a large share of the Central Bank’s hard currency reserves. The crippling blow to the country’s financial system also prevented Russia from getting foreign cash.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — Authorities evacuated thousands of people from the eastern city of Sumy on Tuesday, a senior Ukrainian official said.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said that 5,000 people, including 1,700 foreign students, were evacuated from Sumy.

Vereshchuk reaffirmed that Ukraine will not accept Moscow’s offer to establish safe corridors for civilians to head toward Russia, saying it will only agree to safe exits leading westward.

Vereshchuk said that the evacuation from the southern port of Mariupol failed Tuesday because the Russian troops fired on a Ukrainian convoy carrying humanitarian cargo to Mariupol that was to carry civilians from the city on its way back. She said the city was in a “catastrophic situation” cut from water, power and communications, adding that a child in Mariupol has died of dehydration.

The Russian military has denied firing on convoys and charged that the Ukrainian side was blocking the evacuation effort.

____

KYIV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian president’s wife thanked the country’s allies Tuesday for their support and urged them to do more to deter Russia.

Olena Zelenska said in an open letter to global media released Tuesday that the Russian invasion amounted to “the mass murder of Ukrainian civilians.”

She said that “the most terrifying and devastating of this invasion are the child casualties,” mentioning eight-year-old Alice who died on the streets of Okhtyrka while her grandfather tried to protect her. She also cited 14-year-old Arseniy was hit in the head by wreckage, and could not be saved because an ambulance could not get to him on time because of intense fires.

Zelenska added that “this war is being waged against the civilian population, and not just through shelling,” citing the lack of basic medicines in the besieged Ukrainian cities.

She seconded President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s call on Western allies to help counter the Russian air superiority, saying “close the sky, and we will manage the war on the ground ourselves.”

____

The Russian military offered again on Tuesday to provide humanitarian corridors for civilians to leave five Ukrainian cities after several previous attempts to establish safe exits have failed.

Ukrainian officials said that Russian shelling again made it impossible for civilians to use the corridors on Tuesday despite a deal reached a day earlier. The Russian military has countered the claim, alleging that Ukraine only has allowed civilians to use one corridor from the city of Sumy and blocked other routes from Kyiv, Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Mariupol.

Russian Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev said Tuesday that the Russian military has announced it will stop firing at 10 a.m. Wednesday to let civilians leave safely via the corridors. He suggested setting up a hotline between Russia and Ukraine to coordinate the evacuation.

____

WARSAW, Poland — Poland said it would give all of its MiG-29 fighter jets to the U.S., apparently agreeing to an arrangement that would allow them to be used by Ukraine’s military. Ukraine has pleaded for more warplanes.

The decision came Tuesday as Washington was looking at a proposal under which Poland would supply Ukraine with Soviet-era fighters and in turn receive American F-16s to make up for their loss. Ukrainian pilots are trained to fly Soviet-era fighter jets.

The Polish Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Poland is ready to deliver the jets to the U.S. Ramstein Air Base in Germany.

“At the same time, Poland requests the United States to provide us with used aircraft with corresponding operational capabilities,” it said.

____

UNITED NATIONS — Ireland’s foreign minister saluted the resilience and courage of Ukraine’s women. The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations hailed their bravery in defending their homes and country. And the head of the International Monetary Fund told “sisters” in Ukraine: “We admire your courage, we share your pain, we stand with you.”

It was International Women’s Day on Tuesday and at a U.N. Security Council meeting focusing on empowering women economically in conflict areas many speakers decried Russia’s war on neighboring Ukraine, and its impact on women.

But Russia’s deputy ambassador Gennady Kuzmin lashed out at sanctions on his country and accused “a cold Western world” of looking on with indifference for eight years at what he called “the murders perpetrated by the Kyiv junta against women and children in Donetsk and Luhansk,” the Russian-backed separatist areas in eastern Ukraine.

Sima Bahous, the head of UN Women, told the council that in Ukraine “humanitarian needs are multiplying and spreading by the hour,” and the majority of those fleeing the conflict are women and children. She warned of the risk of “a backsliding of women’s rights and women’s access to employment and livelihoods” in the war-torn country.

Bahous told a separate U.N. Women’s Day event that “the horrifying situation” in Ukraine and its impacts on women also “remind us that all conflicts, from Ukraine to Myanmar to Afghanistan, from the Sahel to Yemen, exact their highest price from women and girls.”

____

JERUSALEM — Israel said Tuesday it will provide temporary refuge to some 25,000 Ukrainians outside of its Law of Return, under which all Jews are eligible for citizenship.

Interior Minister Ayelet Shaked said in a statement that 20,000 Ukrainians who were in Israel without legal status before the outbreak of fighting will be shielded from repatriation “until the danger subsides.” Another 5,000 Ukrainians will initially be granted three-month visas and will be allowed to work if the fighting continues beyond then. Ukrainians can apply for the program online through the Israeli Foreign Ministry’s Israeli Foreign Ministry’s website.

Israel expects to absorb around 100,000 Ukrainians through its Law of Return, under which Jews from anywhere in the world can come to Israel and get citizenship, Shaked said.

Established in the wake of the Holocaust, Israel views itself as a refuge for Jews fleeing war and persecution worldwide. But it has been reluctant to absorb non-Jewish immigrants, including Africans fleeing conflict and poverty.

It has also refused to allow the return of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians who fled or were driven from their homes in what is now Israel during the 1948 war surrounding its creation. Israel says allowing the return of Palestinian refugees and their descendants — who now number more than 5 million — would spell the end of Israel as a Jewish-majority state.

____

DETROIT — Skyrocketing nickel prices are likely to ripple through the auto industry and raise costs in the nascent global market for electric vehicles.

Nickel is a key component in automotive battery cathodes, and Russia is the third-largest producer of the metal. Trading of the commodity was suspended Tuesday on the London Metal Exchange after nickel prices doubled to an unprecedented $100,000 per metric ton.

The LME said trading did not resume Tuesday, and the suspension could last longer given the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Nickel prices have quadrupled in a week over supply issues, and the spike Tuesday forced the LME to shut down electronic and floor trading.

Large automakers General Motors and Toyota said nickel supplies haven’t been affected yet. But a Toyota spokesman in the U.S. said the company is watching the prices. Toyota has seen costs of nearly all precious metals rise, so it’s only a matter of time until it feels the increases, the spokesman said. Tesla, the world’s largest electric vehicle maker, did not respond to a request for comment Tuesday.

____

LONDON — Consumer goods conglomerate Unilever said Tuesday that it has suspended all imports and exports of its products into and out of Russia, and that it will not invest any further capital into the country.

The company condemned the war in Ukraine as “a brutal and senseless act by the Russian state” Tuesday. It said it will continue to supply everyday essential food and hygiene products that are made in Russia to people there, but will keep that under review.

Unilever, which owns hundreds of food and personal care brands including Hellmann’s and Dove, also said it has stopped business operations in Ukraine and will instead focus on helping its employees.

____

LONDON — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy evoked British wartime leader Winston Churchill as he told the U.K. Parliament that his country would fight Russia’s invasion to the end in Ukraine’s cities, fields and riverbanks.

Zelenskyy told British lawmakers “we will not give up and we will not lose,” in a speech that evoked Churchill’s stirring “never surrender” speech during the darkest days of World War II.

Speaking by video from Ukraine to a packed House of Commons chamber, Zelenskyy urged Britain to increase sanctions on Russia and to recognize Russia as “a terrorist country.”

Tuesday’s address was the first time a foreign leader was allowed to speak in the House of Commons. Screens and simultaneous translation headsets were set up in the House of Commons so lawmakers could hear him.

____

PARIS — U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris to discuss the response to Russia’s war with Ukraine.

Macron was briefing Blinken on his most recent round of conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin who is pressing ahead with the Ukraine invasion despite global condemnation and severe sanctions being imposed on his country.

The two men were also to discuss the Iran nuclear talks in Vienna, which are nearing an end with conflicting signals about whether the 2015 deal limiting Iran’s atomic program can be salvaged.

Blinken arrived in Paris for a two-hour stop from a tour of the Baltic states, Moldova and Poland where he heard firsthand dire concerns about Russia’s actions from leaders.

____

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The Dutch defense ministry says it is working with Germany to station Patriot surface-to-air missiles in Slovakia at the request of NATO.

Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren said Tuesday that the Dutch ruling coalition agrees “in principle” to the deployment on the alliance’s eastern flank as a defensive measure.

Ollongren says that some 150-200 Dutch troops will head east with the missile system as soon as the Cabinet gives formal approval. The defense ministry said the missiles can take down airplanes, helicopters and cruise missiles up to an altitude of 20 kilometers (12.4 miles).

The Dutch military’s Patriot systems have previously seen service in both Gulf wars and were stationed in southern Turkey from 2013-2015 to intercept missiles from Syria.

Germany announced late last month that it planned to send Patriots to Slovakia.

____

BRUSSELS — Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Tuesday that Canada will prolong its military mission in Latvia in response to Russia’s war on Ukraine and plans to send more troops there soon.

Canada’s Operation Reassurance is conducting training and exercises alongside its NATO partners in Latvia to help deter Russia from launching an attack on any of the Baltic states or Poland.

“This mission was set to expire next year and in light of the situation in Europe, we decided to renew it ahead of schedule,” Trudeau said. He says 130 more Canadian personnel would join it in coming weeks.

Trudeau also defended Canada’s decision to supply lethal aid to Ukraine, including rocket launchers and hand grenades, despite some weapons shortfalls at home.

“All those weapons are much more useful right now and in the coming weeks, in the hands of Ukrainian soldiers fighting for their lives than they would be in Canadian hands,” he said.

Speaking alongside Trudeau at the Adazi military base in Latvia, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said that Spain is also set to send around 150 more troops to the Baltic state to bolster its presence there.

____

WASHINGTON — President Biden announced Tuesday that the U.S. is “targeting the main artery of Russia’s economy” by banning imports of Russian oil, the latest sanction intended to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

“We will not be part of subsidizing Putin’s war,” he said in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.

Biden’s announcement came amid rising pressure from Democrats and Republicans, and it reflects a willingness to accept the political risk of rising gas prices to economically retaliate against Russia.

“Defending freedom is going to cost,” Biden said. “It’s going to cost us as well in the United States.”

Although Biden has tried to work in concert with European allies, he acknowledged that many are not announcing a similar ban because they’re more reliant on Moscow for oil and gas.

“So we can take this step when others can not,” he said. “But we’re working closely with Europe and our partners to develop a long term strategy to reduce their dependence on Russian energy as well.”

___

LONDON — Britain is joining the United States in announcing a ban on imports of Russian oil.

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng says oil and oil products from Russia will be phased out by the end of the year. He said the transition period “will give the market, businesses and supply chains more than enough time to replace Russian imports,” which account for 8% of U.K. demand.

Kwarteng said the U.K. would work with its other oil suppliers, including the U.S., the Netherlands and the Gulf states, to secure extra supplies.

President Joe Biden announced a ban on Russian oil imports, toughening the toll on Russia’s economy in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine. It follows pleas from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to U.S. and Western officials to cut off the imports, which had been a glaring omission in the massive sanctions put in place on Russia over the invasion.

___

The Kremlin says that Russian President Vladimir Putin had another phone call with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to discuss the situation in Ukraine.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that he also spoke to Bennett on Tuesday and thanked him for his mediation.

Bennett visited Moscow for a meeting with Putin on Saturday, trying to help broker an end to the war with Ukraine. After meeting with Putin, Bennett spoke to Zelenskyy and French President Emmanuel Macron and also visited Berlin on Saturday for talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Bennett also spoke to Putin by phone on Sunday.

____

LONDON — Sports apparel and shoe company Adidas is the latest Western brand to halt its operations in Russia because of the Ukraine invasion.

The company said Tuesday that it has suspended the operations of its retail stores and e-commerce website in Russia until further notice, though it continues to pay its employees there.

Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, said it will make future business decisions and take action as needed, “prioritizing our employee’s safety and support.”

“As a company, we strongly condemn any form of violence and stand in solidarity with those calling for peace,” the company said in a statement.

It’s also donating 1 million euros ($1.1 million) to refugee and children’s charities and clothing to the Global Aid Network for people in Ukraine and neighboring countries.

Last week, Adidas suspended its partnership with the Russian Football Union. Nike has also shut its stores in Russia.

Sales in Russia account for only about 3% of Adidas’s total global revenue, according to company data.

____

WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden’s top intelligence official said Tuesday the U.S. believes Russia underestimated the strength of Ukraine’s resistance before launching an invasion that has likely caused thousands of Russian casualties.

Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines told a congressional panel that U.S. officials believe Russian President Vladimir Putin feels “aggrieved” by Russia’s failure to subdue Ukraine and that he perceives that he cannot afford to lose the war. But what Putin might consider a victory could change given the escalating costs of the conflict to Russia, Haines said.

Despite Putin’s announcement that he would raise Russia’s alert level for nuclear weapons, Haines said the U.S. has not observed unusual changes in Russia’s nuclear force posture.

Haines said it is “unclear at this stage” whether Russia will try to conquer all of Ukraine, something that would require more resources than Putin has committed.

___

HELSINKI — Flights from the eastern Finnish town of Savonlinna near the Russian border to the capital, Helsinki, have been temporarily suspended due to disruptions in GPS signal in eastern parts of the Nordic country, preventing pilots from landing safely.

Finnish communications authority Traficom confirmed Tuesday that GPS disruptions have been recorded in eastern Finland, but declined to comment on how long or how wide the disruptions were.

Transaviabaltika, a Lithuanian airline that operates on the Finnish domestic route with a small turboprop plane, said its pilots have tried landing several times at the Savonlinna airport since Sunday, but have been forced to turn back to Helsinki each time as the GPS signal was disrupted.

Finland shares a 1,340-kilometer (833-mile) land border with Russia. The lakeside town of Savonlinna is a mere 70 kilometers (43 miles) from the border.

In late 2018, the Finnish government said the country’s GPS location signals were intentionally disrupted in the northern Lapland region and the country’s prime minister acknowledged that it was possible that Russia was the disrupting party.

At the same time, the Norwegian Defense Ministry said Russian forces in the Arctic disturbed GPS location signals during a large NATO drill in the country.

Eds: UPDATES: This version has been updated with Ukraine's energy minister saying nuclear plant workers being forced to record address.; With AP Photos. AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220308ei3800ac9


Economy and Finacie
Galek: Slovakia Won't Veto Possible Ban on Imports of Russian Oil and Gas to EU
211 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日 11:21 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, March 10 (TASR) - Although Slovakia imports 85 percent of its gas and 100 percent of its oil from Russia, it wouldn't boycott an embargo on imports of these resources from Russia to the EU, but if this were the case, Bratislava will expect the Union to provide energy security and compensation, Economy Ministry State Secretary Karol Galek told the media on Thursday.

"If the EU decides to stop the flow of finances to Russia for energy carriers, Slovakia won't exercise its right of veto. In such a case, however, we want to be sure that we can replace these sources, and if some states are concerned by this decision more than others, we want to know how they'll be compensated," said Galek, remarking that this doesn't entail only financial compensation but also ensuring flows of resources.

Galek noted in this regard that every sanction should have a significantly higher negative impact on the entity on which it is imposed. If the EU bans imports of Russian oil and gas, it would have issues with energy security, and Slovakia would be among the most affected countries, he added.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220310ei3a00105


Slovakia Will not Veto EU's Decision to Cut Russian Gas or Oil Supplies
340 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日 16:08 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, March 10 (SITA) - Slovakia will not exercise its right of veto if the European Union decides to sanction Russia by banning imports of Russian gas or oil. However, it will be interested in possible compensation. The European Union is currently deciding on ending its reliance on Russian energies. "If Europe decides to stop the flow of funds for energy carriers to Russia, Slovakia will not exercise its right of veto. However, we want to know, we want to be sure that we have something to replace these resources, and if it affects some countries more than others, [we want to know] how these countries will be compensated," State Secretary of the Economy Ministry Karol Galek said at a meeting with journalists.

Slovakia would survive the current winter heating season even if a sanction was approved against Moscow cutting Russian gas supplies. "If it was still cold, thanks to a LNG tanker and gas in the reservoirs, we can comfortably survive 30 days even in the case of the complete halt of gas supplies from Russia," said Galek. However, according to him, next year's winter season will be questionable. "If we reduce our European consumption by 10 to 15% this year, we can survive the next winter without Russian gas," added Galek. According to him, it will take Europe eight years to comfortably wean itself off Russian gas.

According to representatives of the Slovak Economy Ministry, we are more comfortable regarding oil. The whole of Europe, as well as Slovakia, is better diversified in oil, both in terms of oil resources and oil infrastructure. "We will not feel a shortage of oil, but the price is questionable," Galek stated.

So far, we are completely dependent on Russian nuclear fuel. No one else in the world yet produces nuclear fuel that would be suitable for Russian reactors, which we also have in Slovakia. "Slovakia has nuclear fuel for this year," Economy Minister Richard Sulik told journalists.

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020220310ei3a0002u


Slovakia: PM Heger can imagine complete cut-off of Slovakia from Russian energy
811 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Slovakia to propose EU to set up European fund for Ukraine's post-war restoration, support its integration process

Slovakia not to veto EU's decision to cut Russian gas or oil supplies

Extraordinary session on Slovakia's energy interests to be held Wednesday

Slovenske Elektrarne working on diversification of nuclear fuel supply

PM Eduard Heger (OLaNO) said on Thursday that he could imagine a complete cut-off of Slovakia from energy supplies from Russia, adding that energy prices are already extremely high precisely because of what Russian President Vladimir Putin is doing. Heger pointed out that the Slovak delegation is going to the European Summit with specific proposals for the European perspective of Ukraine, e.g., to set up a European fund for the post-war restoration of Ukraine as well as to support its integration process, including the necessary legislative reforms. In this context, the Slovak government will also propose to elaborate an action plan for Ukraine's accession to the EU, as part of which the country should obtain the status of a candidate country. The proposed plan aims to ensure that the legislation of Ukraine and its institutions are ready to join the EU within five years. According to Heger, Ukraine should be granted access to the EU Council at all levels but without the right to vote - at the level of ministers, COREPER committee and in expert working groups. In addition, Kiev should have access to all European agencies and programmes, and the Ukrainian president should be regularly invited to European Council meetings as a guest.

In the meantime, economy ministry state secretary Karol Galek stated that Slovakia will not exercise its right of veto if the EU decides to sanction Russia by banning imports of Russian gas or oil, adding that however, Slovakia will be interested in possible compensation and how these resources will be replaced. Galek also informed that Slovakia would survive the current winter heating season even if a sanction was approved against Moscow cutting Russian gas supplies, adding that if it was still cold, thanks to a LNG tanker and gas in the reservoirs, the country can comfortably survive 30 days even in the case of the complete halt of gas supplies from Russia. However, according to him, next year's winter season will be questionable, adding that Slovakia would survive the next winter without Russian gas if the European consumption is reduced by 10-15% this year. According to him, it will take Europe eight years to comfortably wean itself off Russian gas.

On Thursday, Parliament's Speaker Boris Kollar (We Are Family) convened an extraordinary meeting of the parliament on the energy interests of Slovakia for Wednesday, Mar 16. MPs should discuss at the meeting the proposal of a group of MPs to approve Slovakia's position on the threat to the strategic energy interests of the Slovak economy and citizens. The extraordinary meeting was requested by the opposition Smer-SD party in response to speculations about a potential halt in gas and oil supplies from Russia. Smer-SD wants Slovakia to oppose such a proposal. According to Smer-SD chairperson Robert Fico, halting gas and oil supplies from Russia would result in a rapid increase in fuel prices. He noted that Slovakia would also lose revenues from transit.

In the meantime, dominant power utility Slovenske Elektrarne (SE) spokesperson Olga Bakova informed on Thursday that the company is working to diversify the supply of nuclear fuel, but added that the market of suppliers of certified nuclear fuel for VVER-440 units is extremely limited. She noted that SE wants to communicate and negotiate with any potential manufacturer of fuel for our power plants, adding that such fuel must go through a licensing process in which it must be confirmed that it will be safe to use. Note that only the Russian company TVEL currently supplies nuclear fuel to all VVER-440 reactors that are in operation (Hungary, the Czech Republic, Finland, and Bulgaria) and that SE has in the Mochovce and Bohunice nuclear power plants. In the past, Slovenske Elekrarne strived to diversify the supply of nuclear fuel, at least in part. About seven years ago, the company even signed a contract with the French company Areva, but it was only about the supply of enriched uranium for nuclear fuel supplied by the Russian company. Seven years ago, one year after the annexation of Crimea by Russia, the EU even provided a subsidy of EUR 2mn to eight companies, including the Slovak company VUJE aimed to diversify fuel supplies for Russian VVER-type reactors, but SE did not participate in the project. According to the Slovak Nuclear Regulatory Authority UJD, replacing fuel with fuel of Western type, e.g., requires a lot of design work and preparations.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220311ei3b0003l


Domestic Policy
Fico: Caputova Keeps Reiterating American Propaganda
374 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日 18:07 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, March 11 (TASR) - Smer-SD head Robert Fico on Friday called President Zuzana Caputova "political polystyrene", claiming that she and her arguments have been sunk hundreds of times, but she always resurfaces to repeat American propaganda.

Fico stated this in reaction to Caputova's statement concerning an immediate shutdown of imports of Russian gas and oil on Friday.

"[Smer-SD] is simply convinced that an immediate embargo on Russian gas and oil would be an economic murder of the Slovak public. And it's not just us saying this. The European Commission itself, virtually all EU prime ministers confirm that reducing dependence on Russian gas and oil will require a difficult and expensive ten-year effort. That's why the EU summit [on Thursday and Friday] didn't agree on a sanction to stop the import of Russian gas and oil, just as it didn't agree, sensibly, that the EU can immediately accept an unprepared Ukraine as a new member," stated Fico.

The Smer head claimed that "instructions" from the US Embassy in Bratislava are stronger than any arguments for Caputova as well as Prime Minister Eduard Heger (OLaNO).

"Prime Minister Heger reiterated this propaganda on Thursday, while the president [on Friday] wrote a status reading that anyone who talks about restraint when it comes to stopping the import of Russian oil and gas, and I quote her, 'is acting against the interests of the Slovak Republic and is threatening the security of our public'," stressed Fico.

In this vein, Fico called on Heger and Caputova to stop this, asking whether it's in the interest of the Slovak public to pay €3 per a liter for petrol "in the name of fulfilling American dreams of weakening Russia". "In my opinion, it certainly isn't," he added.

Caputova stated on her Facebook account on Friday that anyone who's still maintaining that Slovakia should remain dependent on Russian gas is acting against the interests of Slovakia and is directly endangering the security of its people. The president reiterated the need for the EU to reduce its dependence on Russian oil and gas without delay in the face of a new security and geopolitical situation.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220311ei3b001p5


Slovakia This Week - March 18, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 3 月 18 日, 7862 字, (英文)
Slovak inflation in February posts highest growth since December 2003Annual inflation in Slovakia saw the highest growth since December 2003, up to 9% in February, shows data released by the Slovak Statistics Office. Monthly inflation fell ...

News; Domestic
Russian Military Forces Continue Invasion of Ukraine; Russian Forces Bomb Westward City of Lviv in Ukraine; President Biden has Call with Chinese President Xi Jinping Concerning Russian Invasion of Ukraine; Russian Forces Bomb Theater Housing Refugees and Children in Mariupol; American Killed in Ukraine; Vladimir Putin Controls Substantial Wealth According to Former Russian Oligarch; Rising Oil Prices Hitting Farmers in America; Eleven-Year-Old Boy Travels through War-Torn Ukraine to Slovakia to Meet Family. Aired 10-11a ET
Erica Hill, Jim Sciutto, Scott McLean, Kylie Atwood, John Harwood, Camila Bernal, Drew Griffin, David Culver, Don Lemon, Matt Egan, Vanessa Yurkevich
6855 字
2022 年 3 月 19 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:00:17]

JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR: A very good Friday morning to you. I'm Jim Sciutto.

ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR: And I'm Erica Hill. Happening right now, Russian forces making an effort to perhaps push west Putin's army, firing on the city of Lviv, striking an aircraft repair plant. That attack, of course, just miles from the Polish border, and also dangerously close to the main airport. Lviv had become a safe haven for residents fleeing violence in other areas of the country. Now the question is, what happens in Lviv?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Even with bombing, do you feel safe to stay here?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I don't know. Where would I go?

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCIUTTO: Sad to see smoke in Lviv. In the capital city of Kyiv, this is what's left after a downed rocket set a residential area on fire. In that city alone, officials say some 60 civilians including four children have died since Russia began its bombardment and missile attacks more than three weeks ago.

This morning, we are standing by for news from the White House. This is President Biden is speaking, as we speak, with the Chinese President Xi Jinping. The big question now, will China support or resist Putin's invasion of Ukraine or try somehow to remain neutral?

INGRAHAM: We are covering every angle of this breaking story as only CNN can. Our reporters, correspondents, analysts standing by to bring you the very latest. We ought to begin this hour with CNN international correspondent Scott McLean who joins us from Lviv, Ukraine. So Ukrainian armed forces, Scott, say that Russia launched at least six missiles toward Lviv. What are you seeing there on the ground?

SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Erica. Yes, we were able to head out to that area this morning. So the air raid sirens went off shortly after 6:00 in the morning. Shortly after that, you could hear an explosion, several explosions even in central Lviv. And then shortly thereafter you could see the black smoke on the horizon. Once we realized where those bombs had dropped, we headed out toward there, and it was near the airport building.

And when we got to that area, we were able to get a vantage point on top of a bridge over some train tracks there just at the end of the runway. And we could see the smoke in the distance just beyond that runway. And local officials say that, as you mentioned, it's an aircraft repair facility that was hit. It is not clear if that was the intended target, but this is part of a pattern of striking areas near airports, especially in the western part of Ukraine where we've seen them hit in places like Lutsk and Ivano-Frankivsk, and now in Lviv as well.

Lviv until now had not been hit with any bombs, and Erica, just look around. It is a normal day. You could imagine this in any European city. People going about their business, people getting coffee, people going out for lunch or for dinner. There are a lot of things closed. Not everything is the same. You can see that metal box over there. That is actually a statue that's been boarded up in preparation for potential war here.

But then look at this. There's bubbles being blown, children chasing over them. And if I could just take you over this way very quickly, this is an exhibit that has been set up to send a message and to demonstrate a very powerful point, and that is the number of children who have been killed in this war. According to the Ukrainians, there have been more than 100 of them, and so each of these strollers, prams, or buggies, or car seats in some cases, represents one child that has been killed in just the last three weeks. If you have kids, it is difficult not to look at these strollers and imagine that being your own child.

The governor of this area said that the Russians should have known that this was a place where people are fleeing violence in other parts of the country. And I interviewed one woman just a few minutes ago, and I asked her what it would take her to finally leave Lviv. And she said, frankly, she doesn't want to. She would only leave as a last resort. And that's the message that you hear from a lot of people, that why should you leave if this is your home? A lot of people are choosing to stay at this moment, Jim and Erica, but that may change if the bombing continues.

SCIUTTO: I was amazed by people's resolve there and their ability just to find moments of happiness in the midst of all of this. Scott McLean, thanks so much for bringing us that story.

Let's go now to the White House where a critical call underway between President Biden and the Chinese President Xi Jinping. CNN White House correspondent John Harwood, national security correspondent Kylie Atwood standing by. John, first to you. This call began just about an hour ago on the dot. What message is Biden sending to xi in this conversation? What does he hope to get out of it?

JOHN HARWOOD, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Jim, this is a huge moment for a president who has framed his administration as part of the 21st century struggle between autocracy and democracy.

[10:05:06]

What the administration believes is, as a senior administration official told me yesterday, is that China made an bet early on, on Russia having a quick conflict. We also had the images at the Olympics of Xi and Putin together. But that bet looks pretty bad at this moment. And so China is now uncertain as to whether to double down or to pull back. What Biden is trying to do is press on that uncertainty, cause China to hesitate and not stand with Putin.

And remember, China has got a couple of different interests here. It is an autocracy, and political it wants to act like one. It would like to seize Taiwan, for example. But in terms of economics, it is running with the leading industrial democracies of the world. That has lifted hundreds of millions of Chinese out of poverty. And what the president is going to try to make clear is those kind of game gains are at risk if China gets in deeper with Russia in this conflict. Very, very important moment right now.

HILL: Kylie, meantime, Secretary of State Antony Blinken laid a very firm stance out against any Chinese support for Russia, clearly laying that groundwork ahead of that call. What more did we hear from the secretary of state?

KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, listen, this call significantly comes. As we have reported, Russia has actually asked China for military and economic support to back its war in Ukraine. And of course, we have also said that the United States has told NATO allies that China has expressed an openness to provide that support, and that is why we are hearing publicly from Biden administration officials this week citing their concerns over China potentially doing that. They have been watching the U.S.-China -- excuse me -- the Russia-China relationship grow closer and closer not just over not the last few weeks but over the last few months and years, and they're watching to see what that turns into, and warning China of the cost that would associated. Listen to what the secretary of state said on this yesterday.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: We believe China in particular has a responsibility to use its influence with President Putin, and to defend the international rules and principles that it professes to support. Instead, it appears China is moving in the opposite direction by refusing to condemn this aggression while seeking to portray itself as a neutral arbiter. And we're concerned that they're considering directly assisting Russia with military equipment to use in Ukraine. (END VIDEO CLIP)

ATWOOD: Earlier this week, we know that National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan met with his Chinese counterpart. He made very clear to the Chinese that there would be implications not just for the U.S./China relationship, but also for China's relationship with the entire world if they did move to provide any support to Russia as part of this invasion into Ukraine. And we heard from the secretary of state yesterday that Biden is also going to be clear on this, that the Biden administration will not stand back. They will not hold on imposing any costs on China if they move forward with this potential support. A critical, critical call, guys.

HILL: It certainly is. Kylie Atwood, John Harwood, thank you both.

Joining us now to discuss, Evelyn Farkas, who served as the deputy assistant secretary of defense for Russia, Ukraine, and Eurasia. Good to have you back with us this morning. What we have seen in the days leading up to this call, right, this very public discussion about the intel that showed Russia was asking China for help, China's possible response, even putting out there, very publicly, what his plan for this call, how effective do you think that has been at setting the stage?

EVELYN FARKAS, FORMER DEPUTY ASSISTANT DEFENSE SECRETARY FOR RUSSIA/UKRAINE/EURASIA: Well, Erica, honestly, it remains to be seen, and hopefully we'll get a readout from the administration in the coming hours.

China is really trying to have it both ways here. Obviously, they want to demonstrate to the Russians they are still a partner, and they want to provide enough support to Russia so that Russia can continue to keep the west distracted, keep weakening our democracies. From their perspective, that is in the interest of Russia and China. But China is not interested in having the United States and its allies slap secondary sanctions on it for helping Russia. It is not interested in a meltdown of the economic order.

So China has other interests on the other side which I think the administration is hoping will compel President Xi to pull back, certainly from any military support, but also from any economic support to Russia.

HILL: In that vein, we were talking about this earlier, China, of course, doesn't want to be told what to do. Understandable, but when you look at how long this could potentially play out, that is also a big unknown. How much is that figuring into China's assessment at this point, especially as we see a stalled Russian army?

[10:10:01]

FARKAS: Erica, I think if you don't see fast action on the Russian side resulting in a catastrophic loss of human life in Ukraine, then the Chinese will think, let's just let this drag out because it's to our benefit, again, to distract the United States, to weaken the west. Obnoxiously, they just had a Chinese carrier go through the Taiwan straits, so that was clearly a message to the United States that we're still strong and don't mess with us.

If it goes on longer, Chinese thinks it's in their interest, but they also have to balance the fact that this is an invasion. This is a violation of sovereignty. They're always talking about Article Two of the U.N. Charter and sovereignty and borders in order to, of course, make their argument about keeping Tibet and keeping their borders intact. And they also really have signed up clearly to the Geneva Conventions, and even though they're violating human rights in their territory in different ways, to be publicly associated with what Russia is doing right now militarily to the civilians in Ukraine is difficult. They are shielding their public from the reality right now and they can continue to do that, but I think they want to be leaders on the international stage, and so that means they should pick a more positive policy.

HILL: Shielding the Chinese people, also amplifying Russian disinformation in many cases, as we know. When it comes to these potential consequences that we're hearing about from the White House, the cost is a word that we keep hearing. If there were to be any, quote-unquote, consequences or costs, potentially sanctions here, how important is it that those come not just from the United States but that there is a concerted effort like we have seen against Russia with other nations?

FARKAS: It's critical because, of course, any kind of components, computer components, things we would sanction, and we have already sanctioned China to some extent, but really draconian sanctions would have to be backed up certainly by our European allies, Japan. That wouldn't really be a problem because they have their own tensions with China. But all our allies across the globe would have to contribute, especially allies that have access to materials, to high-tech components that the Chinese need in order to continue their modernization of their military, and also, of course, their economic development.

HILL: Before we let you go, just based on your experience, how do you think the very public messaging on this phone call between Presidents Biden and Xi is playing at the Kremlin?

FARKAS: Playing in the Kremlin, that is, actually, I think, the target. And I like your question, because I don't think xi likes it very much when we publicly message what we want him to do, but I do think it's probably having an impact on Vladimir Putin, making him think twice. First of all, these are the world's biggest economies. Russia is not in that club. So they're having a meeting about Russia without Russia. I think that should make Vladimir Putin feel nervous.

HILL: Evelyn Farkas, always great to have you. Thank you.

FARKAS: Thanks, Erica.

HILL: Still to come this morning, a Minnesota man is now among those killed in Ukraine, among the civilian deaths there. How his sister is remembering him. She says he was always a helper.

SCIUTTO: Plus, with food and medicine in short supply, the youngest member of the Ukrainian parliament joins us to speak about the growing humanitarian crisis in his country. Heartbreaking to watch.

And a mother forced to send her young son alone on a journey to save his life.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DON LEMON, CNN HOST, "DON LEMON TONIGHT": Were you scared?

HASSAN AL-KHALAF, TRAVELED 620 MILES ALONE (through translator: Yes, I felt very scared. I felt horrible. I really wanted to cry because I have always been with my mom and this is the first time I had to go away from her.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCIUTTO: That's an incredible little boy. His bravery as he traveled hundreds of miles by himself, with just a bag and a cell phone. That's coming up.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:18:47]

SCIUTTO: Just moments ago, Ukrainian President Zelenskyy spoke to the Ukrainian people, offering an update on the horrific bombing of a theatre in Mariupol. This is the theatre that was clearly marked, as you see there, with the word "children" in Russian. Children and families were taking shelter. Have a listen to what the president said.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): -- continuing at the site at the bombed theatre where civilians were hiding from bombs and using it as a shelter. We have managed to rescue 130 people from there. However, hundreds of people of Mariupol are still under the rubble. Despite all the difficulties, we will continue rescue operations.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCIUTTO: Goodness, 130, certainly good news, but a total of 1,300 people were believed to be sheltering in the building at the time of this attack.

HILL: Yes, and for him to say hundreds, they believe, are still under the rubble.

More tragic news to share with you out of Ukraine as we're learn more about the American man who was killed on Thursday. James Whitney Hill, who went by Jimmy, was among dozens killed during artillery fire on that city. His sister said he was one of the people killed in the bread line. He was in Ukraine with his partner who was being treated for multiple sclerosis.

[10:20:02] SCIUTTO: CNN's Camila Bernal joins us now live from Los Angeles. Camila, I know Jimmy's sister spoke to CNN last night. What did we learn?

CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Jim and Erica, it really is devastating for that sister, for the rest of the family, and for his friends. We know that James Hill essentially gave us a chilling example in details of everything that was happening right before his death. While he was in Ukraine, on Facebook, he described intense bombings, multiple times said they were cold, they were hungry, said that people couldn't sleep, that were getting depressed. He said they were starting to feel hopeless, and so many of his friends and family following along as he detailed what was happening. As you guys mentioned, he was in Ukraine with his partner Ira, and his sister saying he would not leave her side as she was battling M.S. Here's what Katya had to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KATYA HILL, SISTER OF AMERICAN KILLED IN UKRAINE: I do know as things were deteriorating in the city, and food at the hospital. My brother was the one that was going out to the store to bring back what food he could find. And his sharing with me on messenger was how patient the Ukrainian people were waiting in line of maybe 100 people and just taking what they need and leaving food and other supplies in the store for the rest in line.

And at one point, a missile went by him and landed at a distance that did not hurt the people in the line. So my brother was the helper that people find in a crisis. At one point, he said he was in the store. He bought some cookies so that he could bring cookies back to the nurses that were helping and couldn't get out to the store. And he had a stash of chocolate that he was keeping so that he could hand-out out chocolates when somebody was being depressed or just needed a little encouragement.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BERNAL: And so many others also describing him as someone who was caring, who was loving, who always had a smile on his face, who was positive, a good teacher, someone who loved the outdoors and enjoyed fly fishing. But all of this is even harder for this family because they say they still do not know where his body is. And the sister is saying is there's no way they're going to have closure unless they're able to get his body and, of course, say their final goodbyes. Jim, Erica?

SCIUTTO: Perfectly understandable and there are many more Americans in Ukraine, some of them fighting while over there. So the danger continues. Camila Bernal, thanks so much.

Coming up this hour, a young boy reunited with his family. The story of just an incredible journey out of Ukraine, all by himself. That's coming up.

And a decade of close friendship brutally cut short, how a Ukrainian member of parliament is honoring a young Ukrainian journalist, there she is, killed this week while covering Russia's invasion.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:28:05]

SCIUTTO: Russian President Vladimir Putin claims he makes a salary of just $140,000 a year. Fact is, he may be one of the richest people on the planet.

HILL: A CNN investigation examines Putin's secret wealth, including an opulent palace overlooking the Black Sea. CNN's Drew Griffin joining us now with more on that investigation. Drew, what did you find?

DREW GRIFFIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The subject of investigation for years, Erica and Jim. It just shows how easy it is to hide money, especially in Russia, especially through oligarchs, especially even on the Black Sea where some people say you own a palace.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

GRIFFIN: On the shore of the Black Sea, it can only be described as a palace -- 190,000 square feet. From the air you can see the church, tea house, and amphitheater, and reportedly an underground hockey rink, with a no-fly zone and no-boat zone.

This according to an investigation last year by the jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny's group. They claim that this gilded, luxurious palace fit for a king was built for Vladimir Putin.

MARIA PEVCHIKH, HEAD OF INVESTIGATIONS, ANTI-CORRUPTION FOUNDATION: This palace is very much a symbol and miniature of Putin's Russia. He no longer sees himself as a government employee, as an elected figure. He sees himself as a czar, as a king of some sort. And a Russian czar, of course, deserves a palace.

GRIFFIN: CNN can't independently identify Putin's connection to the palace, and Putin's spokesman denies the Russian leader owns it or any palace. Maria Pevchikh from Navalny's anti-corruption foundation says they have proof. But their sources and documents all point to the palace as an example of how the oligarchs corruptly enrich the president.

[10:30:00]

PEVCHIKH: It has been paid by Russian oligarchs, by Russian state- owned companies, money from Russian people, from regular people, stolen and diverted into building this horrendous thing on the Black Sea.

GRIFFIN: According to the investigation and a whistleblower who came forward, the money for the palace came from a Russian investment fund company that solicited charity donations from the Russian oligarchs.

JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: There are these rumors that Putin being the richest man in the world, and he may be. It's very, very hard to try to understand what his wealth is and where it's held. GRIFFIN: Rumored to be worth more than $100 billion, officially Putin claims that 800 square foot apartment, a few cars, and a modest salary in 2020 valued at about $140,000. But his official income is irrelevant. Russia watchers say Putin controls Russia who determining who gets money and who doesn't, who gets to run business, who skims profit, and how the wealth is passed. He doesn't need any assets listed in his name, says journalist Tom Burgis. It's all his when he asks.

TOM BURGIS, AUTHOR, "KLEPTOPIA": He's closer to something like the Godfather. But ultimately, they owe everything they have to the boss. And with a click of thee fingers as he has shown in the past, Putin can take everything from an oligarch, however rich or however influential they may seem they are all ultimately dependent on him.

GRIFFIN: Fight the system, interfering in politics, and face his wrath. Exiled Russian oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky who was convicted of tax evasion and fraud, spent 10 years in a Russian prison, he says, for not playing Putin's game. He claims Putin is paranoid, dangerous, and must be stopped.

MIKHAIL KHORDORKOVSKY, FORMER RUSSIAN OLIGARCH AND OIL TYCOON (through translator): All the accounts of all the oligarchs who function as Putin's wallet must be stopped. They must all feel the pain right now and it must continue until the war ends.

GRIFFIN: Newly imposed sanctions from the west have now made it hard for many of the Russian billionaires to do business outside of Russia. Yachts, bank accounts, frozen. Inside Russia, the economy shows signs of crumbling. But chipping away at Putin's brutal hold on power through economics will take time. From his actions, observers believe Putin's strategy is far beyond personal riches.

DOUGHERTY: He wants to rebuild Russia as a great power. And you almost have to go back to the czarist days to understand that.

GRIFFIN: Just look at the gates of Putin's purported palace, a golden, two-headed crowned eagle, a symbol of Russia similar to the two-headed crowned eagle that is atop the gates of the winter palace that belonged to Russia's last czar.

(END VIDEO TAPE)

GRIFFIN (on camera): Jim and Erica, financially getting to Putin may be impossible, but even getting to these oligarchs through sanctions and seizures is tremendously difficult. They've gone to great lengths to hide their assets underneath multiple shell companies safely in western countries including the United States. One expert who trails this money said literally there is no paper trail on a lot of this money. Jim, Erica?

HILL: They spent a lot of time making sure it is that way. Drew Griffin, really appreciate it, thank you.

We are getting some new details from this call between President Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping. We're going to take you live to Washington after the break. Stay with us.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:38:08]

HILL: This just in to CNN. Some details of this critical call between Presidents Biden and Chinese President Xi. The Chinese president saying, quote, "the Ukraine crisis is something we don't want to see."

SCIUTTO: CNN White House correspondent John Harwood joins us now from the White House, David Culver from Shanghai. David, as often happens with these calls, we're getting the Chinese readout before the White House readout of this. What are the highlights so far based on how Chinese state media is characterizing the call?

DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Jim, I actually do think it's interesting the Chinese are putting this out so quickly, especially when you look at what was happening earlier this week in the meeting between Jake Sullivan and his Chinese counterpart Yang Jiechi, somebody who is a key adviser to President Xi. Out of that meeting, we heard more hard lines coming from the U.S. and the Chinese were kind of playing catch-up. It seems even ahead of this video call, the U.S. was putting out a harder stance, whereas the Chinese state media were simply heralding this as a discussion of common interests.

Now we're starting to see the readout in more detail, and interesting to note, some of the lines that I'm looking at here from state media, this from President Xi, "State to state relations cannot go to the stage of military confrontation. Conflict and confrontation are not in the interests of anyone. Peace and security are the most treasured wealth of the international community."

It sounds like they want an end to the Ukraine, sure. But at the same time, you have to look that there's not a direct push against Russia here. And perhaps this is as strong as you're going to get from China in all of this. They're not going to necessarily go against, certainly publicly, Russia. This is an allegiance based in ideology. It's somebody who President Six considers to be his friend best, President Putin, those are his words. And so for him to say now that he wants this crisis to end, that he is promoting peace and stability, it sounds good. Will the actions meet it? That's what remains unknown right now.

[10:40:00]

And we're starting to see some actions within certain sectors of Chinese economy and financial sectors. You see, for example, banks that have decided to halt dealings, Chinese banks in Russia. You saw the Chinese regulators of currency decide not to necessarily take action that would have helped the ruble from plummeting in Russia. And you see Chinese folks pushing back against the use of aircraft parts in Russia. Russia asked, actually, for some airline assistance. China said no. So those are indicators. Is it a full step forward? We don't know where it is going to go from here. This call will be telling.

HILL: And John Harwood, as David pointed out, China is trying to almost get ahead of this in some ways, especially based on what we saw after that meeting with Jake Sullivan. When do we expect to hear a little bit more from the White House? Has anything been trickling out?

JOHN HARWOOD, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: No. And I keep checking my phone. We do not have anything from the White House on this despite what the Chinese have put out.

But I think it's significant, even without a direct call for Russia to halt the conflict, it's important that China set the signal that it set. That is, it shows that it's very aware of which way the wind is blowing around the world on this conflict as it gets more ugly and savage. They emphasized the desire for peace among nations and not military conflict. That is a very limited step, but it shows that they know that sentiment around the world is turning against this war.

And that is precisely why President Biden wanted to be on this call today, to try to take this moment when it looks very ugly for what Russia is doing, and try to emphasize to China that the economic relations that you have with the rest of the world that have been so valuable to China are at risk from sanctions if you decide to intervene.

So we'll see if anything tangible comes out of it. David pointed to a couple of things that already have come out, small steps. And the question is, do we get bigger ones?

SCIUTTO: David, you learn a lot given its media is state controlled in China from the way the media is covering this story. Prior to the invasion to see Xi and Putin standing next to each other, a show of friendship. And then some statements since then where the Chinese have echoed Russian disinformation about the war in Ukraine. In recent days, have you seen the tone of coverage there change at all of this war?

CULVER: It still is heavily focused on what the Kremlin is putting out. It's essentially parroting what the Kremlin wants from a propaganda perspective. One thing you do start to see is a bit more on Chinese social media, permission, if you will, because they obviously can censor, as you well know and shut things down, for a different view to come up a bit.

They're still resistant in allowing an attack totally against Russia. They're still very protective of that. But you do start to see a bit more surface that would suggest, OK, perhaps they're starting to see different perspectives.

One thing that John pointed out, though, that was interesting is the sanctions. I think they're terrified of the reality of economic sanctions affecting them here. We are in the midst of lockdown here in Shanghai, and the country right now is dealing with a COVID flare-up. That has real economic repercussions here, and they're still dealing with it from the outbreak two years ago. So add to that anything that could come from this tension between Russia and Ukraine, and if has negative effects here on the Chinese economy, you can see that China is going to perhaps take action to avoid that. SCIUTTO: It's a great point. The Chinese economy is vulnerable right now with the COVID lockdown there, further sanctions from the west. They must be viewing very, with a little bit of fear. David Culver, John Harwood, thanks so much.

HILL: Oil prices are once again on the rise, that impact being felt, including among farmers. Some already reeling from soaring inflation rates. We're going to show you how some are switching crops to try to break even. The question is, of course, will it work? That's next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:48:49]

SCIUTTO: U.S. drivers across the country, they're keeping their eyes on the pump this morning after oil prices surged back up above $100 barrel on Thursday. They had been below $100 for some days.

HILL: The yo-yo price feeling is there. Energy prices being watched very closely on Wall Street and also in the heartland where there is a growing concern that farmers won't be able to keep up with these rising costs. Joining us now, CNN's Matt Egan, and CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich joining us on this. So Matt, first of all, let's take a look at these oil prices. Where do they stand right now?

MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Well, Erica, oil prices all over the place. You can't look away, otherwise you're going to miss either a massive sell-off or a spike or both. There really have been crazy moves. Oil once skyrocketed to 2008 levels, around $130 a barrel after Russia invaded Ukraine, then they crashed below $100 a barrel. Now they're heading back higher. U.S. crude soared eight percent yesterday, jumping today to around $104 as we speak.

They're off the worst levels of this crisis, but they're certainly very painfully high. I think there had been a sense on Wall Street that maybe, maybe there could be a cease-fire reached between Russia and Ukraine.

[10:50:00]

But now there is a growing fear, a sense of a prolonged war in Ukraine. And what would obviously kill not only many innocent people here, but also really disrupt Russia's energy supplies, and the world still relies on Russia's oil. As one market veteran put it to me, the mood has darkened here.

A lot of questions about what this means to gasoline prices, oil prices. This matters a lot to the economy, business owners, and of course, farmers in the heartland where Vanessa is right now.

SCIUTTO: Vanessa, rising prices, of course, putting pressure on a lot of industries, but on farmers as well. How are they feeling it?

VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: We're hearing from the American Farm Bureau that farmers can expect to spend six percent more this year on farm costs. That is coming off of a 12 percent increase last year.

And all of the machinery and equipment that farmers use, they run on diesel. Diesel is over $5 for the national average, just about that high here in Indiana. Josh Everhart, owner of this farm, says that he's shocked when he has to fill up four semi-tractor trailers with gas. And his father Chris Everhart says he is hoping that the wheat planted around me will make enough money to help offset these rising energy costs.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOSH EVERHART, EVERHART FARMS: You don't want to see the bill.

YURKEVICH: You don't?

EVERHART: If you look at it, you're like, oh no.

YURKEVICH: What is it looking like?

EVERHART: Well, a 1,000-gallon tank is $4,000.

CHRIS EVERHART, EVERHART FARMS: Well, we have the opportunity to make some money, but equipment costs are going up, just like vehicles. Farm equipment is going up that much or more. Fuel, fertilizer, seed, labor costs, if you're using hired labor. So all those things come into it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

YURKEVICH: And so you're hearing a little bit of that stress there. We've heard stress from other farmers saying that this is actually a more anxiety ridden year right now compared to the height of the trade war with China just two years ago. They're feeling this stress because so much is out of their control, the rising fuel costs, the war in Ukraine.

But it's important to note that farmers are very hopeful people. They are hoping for a good strong crop this year and that wheat prices will continue to rise. We have a couple more months before this wheat grows to harvesting capability, but farmers hopeful, but watching these rising costs very closely. Jim, Erica?

HILL: Yes, and another reminder, right, of the ripple effects and just everything that is going up, especially when we heard him give us that list there. Vanessa Yurkevich, Matt Egan, thank you both.

Up next here, an 11-year-old boy who spent days traveling across Ukraine alone with no money. What he shared with CNN now that he is safely across the border.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:57:36]

SCIUTTO: Among more than 3 million Ukrainian refugees so far in this war, there is a brave 11-year-old whose name is Hassan who traveled more than 600 miles by himself across Ukraine through the war to Slovakia.

HILL: Don Lemon spoke with Hassan and his siblings about that harrowing journey to safety, beginning with the difficult moment -- he had to leave his mom.

(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)

DON LEMON, CNN HOST, "DON LEMON TONIGHT": What did she say to you when you left?

HASSAN AL-KHALAF, TRAVELED 620 MILES ALONE (through translator): She wished me lotos of luck and that I wouldn't be crying and sad.

LEMON: Hassan, alone, traveled all the way to Bratislava in Slovakia where he found his older brothers and sisters. They had journeyed ahead earlier to meet up with their older brother who was studying in Slovakia. And that's where I met them today.

So you had a bag?

AL-KHALAF: Yes, I had one bag.

LEMON: And then you had a number written on your hand?

AL-KHALAF: On my right hand.

LEMON: Did you have money with you?

AL-KHALAF: No, no money at all.

LEMON: Hassan says he got his hope from his mother who desperately wanted him to get to safety, and now she too is safe. She was able to reach Slovakia Tuesday and reunite with Hassan.

PISECKA YULIA VOLODYMYRIVNA, HASSAN'S MOTHER (through translator): I cannot leave my mother. She is 84 and she is not mobile. Thus, I had put my son on the train to go to the Slovakian border, where he was met by the people with big hearts. I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all the Slovakian border guards and all of the volunteers of Slovakia who sheltered by child, who helped him to cross the border on his own.

LEMON: Hassan's rescue a family affair. Some of his siblings gave their mom advice on the best way to get Hassan out of the war-torn country. But there were times they were scared that he would get lost.

Did you think that he wasn't going to make it or that he would get lost or that you would never see him again?

KINANA, HASSAN'S SISTER: I was believe that he will be with us because he is very clever, and he could also call us, and we was helping him. But when I saw him, I thought now I can relax.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCIUTTO: Quite a story. And we saw so many families like that, mostly women and children having to flee for their lives. Remarkable to do it on your own at that age.

Thanks so much to all of you for joining us today. I'm Jim Sciutto.

HILL: And I'm Erica Hill. Stay with us. AT THIS HOUR with Bianna Golodryga starts right now.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220319ei3j000gp


Foreign Policy
Smer-SD: If Russian Gas and Oil Are Cut Off, Only Europe Will Suffer
245 字
2022 年 3 月 22 日 19:29 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, March 22 (TASR) - If Russia's gas and oil are cut off, only Europe will suffer, opposition Smer-SD chair Robert Fico told a press conference on Tuesday, adding that Slovakia is dependent on Russian oil imports.

Fico went on to say that on Thursday (March 24), a group of EU member states is likely to resubmit a proposal at the EU summit that as part of sanctions against Russia a measure will be used that Slovakia won't take these energy sources. According to Fico, Slovakia will thus eliminate its own energy sector. In this context, he criticised Prime Minister Eduard Heger (OLaNO), President Zuzana Caputova and Foreign Affairs Minister Ivan Korcok (an SaS nominee).

Fico stressed that halting oil and gas requires a society-wide consent, which doesn't exist in Slovakia. "We don't know what more we have to do than give a binding mandate to the premier for the meeting in Brussels on Thursday," said Fico, adding that they have no choice but to go on Thursday morning to a meeting of the parliamentary European affairs committee, which approves a mandate for the prime minister for discussions at the summit in Brussels.

"We'll demand the adoption of a binding position so that Prime Minister Heger doesn't have a free hand when it comes to advocating this suicidal economic sanction," added Fico.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220322ei3m002bd


Domestic Policy
Korcok: Slovakia Lobbies for Ukraine's EU Candidate Country Status
283 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日 15:57 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, March 23 (TASR) - Slovakia is one of the EU countries lobbying for Ukraine to be granted EU accession candidate status as soon as possible, chief of Slovak diplomacy Ivan Korcok (SaS nominee) stated after a session of the Government on Wednesday.

Korcok pointed out that being included among the candidate countries doesn't automatically guarantee Ukraine its EU membership, as there are no shortcuts through the accession process. "We believe that the first official step has to be taken, though. It might not yet have the support of the whole EU, but Slovakia will promote it," he said, adding that it's what Ukraine deserves at least from a moral standpoint.

The minister reported that at the upcoming Thursday (March 24) EU summit the European leaders will discuss the cutting-off of additional Russian banks from the SWIFT payment system and the inclusion of more Russian oligarchs and their family members on the sanction list. Also on the table is the ban on having Russian ships anchor in EU ports and the ban on trade in precious materials, including gold and diamonds. "Our effort is geared towards stopping the financing of this aggression," he said.

Russia finances the war in Ukraine through its income from the exports of gas and oil. The most efficient way to stop financing Russia, therefore, is to cut off its energy income. That, however, is unfeasible for several EU countries, including Slovakia, which are highly dependent on Russian oil and gas, added Korcok.

"Slovakia supports the reduction of the dependency on (Russian) oil, but we want this move to be sustainable and coordinated," said Korcok.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220323ei3n001up


News
NATO deploys more troops to eastern European allies and vows to protect Ukraine 'against chemical and nuclear threats' - and says China is providing political support to Russia with 'blatant lies'
Rachael Bunyan For Mailonline
1546 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日 15:52 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* NATO leaders will agree at Thursday's summit in Brussels on deploying troops to Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia

* NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg also vowed to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia's invading forces

* Vladimir Putin has been accused of using banned white phosphorus weapons in Ukraine amid fears he may be on the verge of resorting to chemical warfare

NATO leaders are set to agree on deploying four new battle groups to the alliance's eastern flank to bolster their defence in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Leaders will agree at Thursday's summit in Brussels on deploying troops to Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, NATO's secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said.

'I expect leaders will agree to strengthen NATO's posture in all domains, with major increases in the eastern part of the alliance on land, in the air and at sea,' Stoltenberg said ahead of the urgent NATO summit on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The NATO chief also vowed to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia's invading forces.

'Tomorrow, I expect allies will agree to provide additional support, including cybersecurity assistance as well as equipment to help Ukraine protect against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats,' Stoltenberg said.

Vladimir Putin has been accused of using banned white phosphorus weapons in Ukraine amid fears he may be on the verge of resorting to chemical warfare.

Stoltenberg also accused China of giving political backing to Russia with 'blatant lies' as it attacks Ukraine, and warned Beijing against providing material support to Moscow's war effort.

'China has provided Russia with political support, including by spreading blatant lies and misinformation, and allies are concerned that China could provide material support for the Russian invasion,' the NATO chief said.

'I expect leaders will call on China to live up to its responsibilities as a member of the UN Security Council, refrain from supporting Russia's war effort, and join the rest of the world in calling for an immediate, peaceful end to this war.'

China, which has not condemned Russia's invasion and criticised Western sanctions, defended Moscow on Wednesday, calling Russia an 'important member' of the G20 after Washington raised the prospect of excluding Moscow from the group.

US President Joe Biden last week warned his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping there would be 'consequences' if Beijing provides support to Russia during its invasion of Ukraine.

Jinping and Putin earlier this year declared a relationship of 'no limits' following a visit by the Russian President to Beijing for the Winter Olympics.

Stoltenberg meanwhile said that the new NATO battle groups being deployed to Bulgaria, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary, as well as the existing forces in the Baltic countries and Poland, means NATO will have eight multinational groups along the alliance's eastern flank.

Stoltenberg said that the Ukraine crisis has shown that NATO must reset its deterrence and defence posture for the longer term.

Russia meanwhile refuses to rule out using nuclear weapons if it faces an 'existential threat', Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told CNN.

Pentagon spokesman John Kirby slammed Moscow's 'dangerous' rhetoric, and Biden warned en route to Europe that Russia may also use chemical weapons in Ukraine as its ground offensive stalls.

'Our armed forces and citizens are holding out with superhuman courage,' Andriy Yermak, a top advisor to Zelensky, said as Biden travelled to the summits of NATO, the G7 and European Union in Brussels.

'But we cannot win a war without offensive weapons, without medium-range missiles that can be a means of deterrence,' Yermak said.

NATO warned on Wednesday against Russia's war in Ukraine sliding into a nuclear confrontation between Moscow and the West.

'Russia should stop this dangerous irresponsible nuclear rhetoric,' Stoltenberg said. 'But let there be no doubt about our readiness to protect and defend allies against any threat anytime.'

'Russia must understand that it can never win a nuclear war,' he said on the eve of a summit of the Western military alliance's national leaders in Brussels. 'NATO is not part of the conflict... it provides support to Ukraine but isn't part of the conflict.'

'NATO will not send the troops into Ukraine... It is extremely important to provide support to Ukraine and we are stepping up. But at the same time it is also extremely important to prevent this conflict becoming a full-fledged war between NATO and Russia.

The Ukrainian authorities have accused Putin of using white phosphorus munitions on the city of Kramatorsk.

While strictly not considered a chemical weapon, the substance burns fiercely and can cause horrendous injuries, and its use on civilians constitutes a war crime.

Human Rights Watch says the incendiary weapons are 'among the cruellest' in modern warfare as they cause 'lifelong human suffering'.

The deputy head of Kyiv police, Oleksiy Biloshytskiy, said on Facebook: 'Another use of phosphorus ammunitions in Kramatorsk.'

He shared a video of a substance burning like the chemical which Russian troops have already been accused of using in the cities of Lutsk and Popasna.

'What we're seeing is a near desperate attempt by the Russians to gain some momentum and try to turn the course of this in their favour,' a defence official said.

Stoltenberg also today said Belarus has been 'complicit' in Russia's invasion of Ukraine even before it was launched, allowing its territory to be used for massing troops, and it continues to enable the invasion.

He told a news conference on the eve of a NATO summit in Brussels that Belarus has also allowed its military airfields to be used by Russian forces to launch attacks on Ukrainian cities and civilians.

Meanwhile, Ukraine appealed for more Western military help ahead of a NATO summit, as it warned that almost 100,000 people are trapped by Russian bombardment and facing starvation in the ruins of the besieged port of Mariupol.

Tens of thousands of residents have already fled the southern city, bringing harrowing testimony of a 'freezing hellscape riddled with dead bodies and destroyed buildings', according to Human Rights Watch.

As the UN demanded Russia end its 'unwinnable' war, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told the Japanese parliament that the UN Security Council was dysfunctional and in need of reform, after Russia wielded its veto to nix condemnation of its invasion.

Nearly a month on, peace talks have agreed on daily humanitarian corridors for refugees, and Ukraine says it is willing to countenance some Russian demands subject to a national referendum.

But it has refused to bow to Russian pressure to disarm and renounce all Western alliances, and Zelensky was also due Thursday to address a NATO meeting in Brussels joined by US President Joe Biden.

Ukraine's lead negotiator Mykhaylo Podolyak said the peace talks were encountering 'significant difficulties', after Moscow accused the United States of undermining the process.

Western leaders have grown increasingly concerned that Russian President Vladimir Putin will use chemical weapons or otherwise escalate tactics four weeks into an invasion where his troops have failed to capture a single major Ukrainian city.

Leaving the White House on Wednesday, Biden said Russia's use of chemical weapons in Ukraine is a risk.

'I think it's a real threat,' he said.

Biden and his team have been developing plans to impose sanctions on members of the Duma, Russia's parliament, in retaliation for Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to two sources familiar with the situation. The sanctions are expected to be announced on Thursday.

A White House spokesperson said 'no final decisions have been made about who we will sanction and how many we will sanction.'

'We will have additional sanctions measures to announce that will rolled out in conjunction with our allies on Thursday when the president has the opportunity to speak with them,' the official said.

On Thursday, Biden will attend an emergency NATO summit, meet with G7 leaders and address the 27 leaders of the European Union at a session of the European Council, White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters on Tuesday.

He said Biden will coordinate on the next phase of military assistance to Ukraine.

In addition to imposing fresh sanctions on Russia, Biden will work with U.S. allies to tighten existing sanctions to 'crack down on evasion and to ensure robust enforcement,' Sullivan said.

In recent days, Russia and Western governments have traded accusations over the possibility of a chemical weapons attack in Ukraine without producing evidence to back their concerns.

Biden has vowed not to engage in direct conflict with Russia but has pledged the United States will defend all NATO territory. He has ordered more U.S. troops to NATO's eastern flank to reassure edgy allies.

During his visit to Poland, a NATO member, Biden will visit U.S. troops and meet with experts involved in the humanitarian response to helping hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who have fled their country and those who remain

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220323ei3n006et


Boris Johnson said Russian president Vladimir Putin had already crossed a "red...
4940 字
2022 年 3 月 24 日 23:17 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Boris Johnson said Russian president Vladimir Putin had already crossed a "red line" with his "barbarism" towards Ukraine.

Speaking to LBC radio ahead of a Nato summit in Brussels, he said: "We all want to see some solution in Ukraine. Everybody is hoping that Putin will pull back and stop this incredible barbaric slaughter that he's engaged on.

"But the only way to do that - we think there's a huge amount of unity - is to keep going with the pressure that we've applied, and to increase it.

"And the point I'm going to make today is look, you know, he's already crossed a threshold of barbarism in the way he's behaving. People talk about new red lines for chemical, biological, tactical nuclear weapons or whatever. For me, the red line already has been crossed.

"He's bombing indiscriminately civilian centres. He's causing huge numbers of casualties in wholly innocent populations."

Boris Johnson suggested the UK could target Russian president Vladimir Putin's gold reserves in response to the invasion of Ukraine.

He told LBC: "We need to do more, and so we need to do more economically. Can we do more to stop him using his gold reserves, for instance, in addition to his cash reserves?

"What can we do more to sanction Swift? And then we need to do more to give the Ukrainians military support.

"The big thing that has emerged in the last month - the huge fact that the world now knows - is that the Ukrainian people will fight for their country. They believe in their country, they love their country. They're going to defend it.

"That was something we didn't really know a month ago. It's now absolutely clear. That's changed geopolitics. It means that we have a duty to help them. We have a duty to help them protect themselves and their loved ones. And so the UK is stepping up again."

Boris Johnson compared Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky to former prime minister Winston Churchill, praising him for giving the Ukrainian people their "roar".

He told LBC: "I think that President Zelensky has proved to be a quite remarkable leader of his people - he's rallied them and he's been their voice.

"He knows, as Churchill said of himself, he may not have been the lion but he's been privileged to give the roar.

"It's the Ukrainian people who have been the lion, and he's expressed their will and their sense of defiance."

Boris Johnson defended the UK's record on sanctioning Russia over the invasion of Ukraine.

He told LBC: "I think the UK - if you talk to people around Europe and the world, they fully accept that the UK was the first mover when it came to sanctioning Swift, which stops Putin getting payments for his hydrocarbons; sanctioning the Russian Central Bank, that's been absolutely crucial in paralysing the Russian economy; sanctioning Aeroflot, we were the first to do it.

"Yes, we have tough property laws in the UK, which meant that it took us a while to sanction all the oligarchs, but we've now done I think 1,000 individuals and entities, we are distraining their yachts, we're taking control of their homes.

"There is a huge economic punishment now being visited on the associates of Vladimir Putin. But... we've got to go further.

"My message today in Nato will be that there are ways in which the world can continue to intensify the pressure on Putin. And the more we do that now, the more pressure we apply now - particularly on things like gold - I believe the more we can shorten the war, shorten the slaughter in Ukraine."

Boris Johnson condemned Russia's bid to host the Euro 2028 football tournament.

The Prime Minister told LBC: "I think it's beyond satire that any football organisation no matter how bonkers and you know, driven by lucre they may be, would want to give Russia in the present circumstances the right to host a tournament."

General Sir Richard Shirreff said there is a "new cold war" and leaders at the Nato meeting in Brussels must prevent it from escalating.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the retired army officer said: "There has to be a recognition that there will be no peace in Europe while Putin is in the Kremlin.

"In Ukraine the war has gone hot.

"The task for the Nato summit today is to ensure that the necessary measures are put in place to prevent that war going hot in the rest of Europe, so we're now in a new cold war."

He called for a significant ramp-up of Nato forces on Europe's eastern flank, for more defence spending, and for western countries to continue to provide equipment to support Ukraine's fight against Russia.

Boris Johnson has said allies must "step up" support for Ukraine with sanctions and defensive military equipment as he warned Vladimir Putin is determined to "double down" on the invasion.

Speaking to broadcasters after landing in Brussels where he will attend a Nato summit, the Prime Minister said: "Vladimir Putin is plainly determined to double down on his path of violence and aggression, absolutely brutal the way he's treating the Ukrainian people.

"We've got to step up, we've got to increase our support, we've got to tighten the economic vice around Putin, sanctioning more people today as we are.

"Looking at what we can do to stop Putin using his gold reserves and also doing more to help the Ukrainians defend themselves."

Boris Johnson said the UK is sanctioning the Wagner Group, a paramilitary organisation seen as Vladimir Putin's private army.

In Brussels, the Prime Minister told broadcasters: "We've got to step up, we've got to increase our support, we've got to tighten the economic vice around Putin, sanctioning more people today as we are, sanctioning the Wagner Group."

The Government said it has sanctioned a further 59 individuals and entities in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss tweeted: "The UK has already sanctioned over 1,000 individuals and businesses since Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"Today, I announce 65 more including the Wagner Group of mercenaries, Foreign Minister Lavrov's step-daughter and the CEO of Russia's largest bank."

The sanctions target key industries supporting Russia's illegal invasion, including Russian Railways and defence company Kronshtadt, the main producer of Russian drones, the Foreign Office said.

It also confirmed the paramilitary Wagner Group - seen as Vladimir Putin's private army - has been targeted.

The FCDO added that six more banks have been hit with sanctions, including Alfa Bank, along with the world's largest diamond producer, Alrosa.

Individuals sanctioned include the billionaire oil tycoon Eugene Shvidler, founder of Tinkoff bank Oleg Tinkov, Herman Gref, the CEO of Russia's largest bank Sberbank, and Polina Kovaleva, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov's step-daughter.

Meanwhile, Galina Danilchenko, who was installed by Moscow as the mayor of occupied Melitopol in south-east Ukraine, has also been targeted, it said.

Some 18,600 visas have been issued under the Ukraine family scheme as of 5pm on Wednesday, the Home Office said.

So far a total of 34,500 applications have been submitted, according to provisional data published on the department's website.

All options are on the table when it comes to seeking to prosecute Russian President Vladimir Putin's regime for war crimes in Ukraine, according to the Government's top legal adviser.

But Attorney General Suella Braverman insisted the UK's preferred approach is to hold to account those responsible through the International Criminal Court (ICC).

SNP attorney general spokeswoman Angela Crawley asked in the Commons: "Given Russia is not a member of the ICC and will almost certainly refuse to recognise its jurisdiction, what discussions has she had with her international partners on alternate forms for prosecution, and does she agree with the view of former prime ministers John Major and Gordon Brown that a court could be set up specifically for the purpose, as was the case in Nuremberg?"

Ms Braverman replied: "All options are on the table and I will always defer and support my counterpart in Ukraine, the prosecutor general, in terms of my efforts to support her in terms of her choice of route for redress.

"But whilst we welcome the focus on accountability, we do believe that the International Criminal Court is the right place for those responsible for committing these atrocious crimes in Ukraine to be held accountable for their actions.

"That's why we're focusing all of our energy, led by the Deputy Prime Minister (Dominic Raab), all of our assistance and all of our resources on the ICC prosecutor's independent investigation."

Boris Johnson has met with European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen outside the Nato meeting in Brussels.

"There is one more thing I want to say to you but..." the Prime Minister said as he gestured towards the media who had been briefly let into the room.

Boris Johnson greeted Japan's prime minister, Fumio Kishida, at the Nato headquarters with a fist bump.

Mr Johnson asked himself "shirt tucked in?" as the pair entered their meeting room.

Downing Street rejected a Kremlin claim that Boris Johnson was "anti-Russian".

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Mr Johnson was among the "most active" leaders in opposing Vladimir Putin but had no issue with the Russian people.

"The Prime Minister is among the most active anti-Putin leaders. We have no issue with the Russian people and in fact we have seen many bravely protest - not least Alexei Navalny - against Putin's regime and call on them to cease this war," the spokesman said.

"But we are among some of the world leaders that have been the most proactive when it comes to taking steps to both defend Ukraine's interests and up pressure on Putin to change course."

The spokesman said there were "very strong defences in this country" in case the UK was targeted by Russia with retaliatory measures.

Boris Johnson is understood to have asked allies at the Nato summit to question whether they have done enough to support Ukraine against the Russian invasion.

According to a UK official, the Prime Minister said: "We all want Putin to come to his senses, put his tanks into reverse.

"He's gonna grind on. Only has forward gears.

He's already crossed the red line into barbarism.

"The heroism of the Ukrainians has fundamentally changed the geopolitics of Europe...

"People will ask, did we do enough? I don't think we can deny them in their moment of agony

"We have the means and they have need."

Boris Johnson and fellow Nato leaders were addressed by Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelensky at their summit in Brussels.

Nato general secretary Jens Stoltenberg said: "President Zelensky addressed us with an impassioned message, thanking Nato allies for the significant support we are providing and stressing the vital importance of even more military assistance.

"Today Nato leaders agreed that we must and will provide further support to Ukraine.

"We will continue to impose unprecedented costs on Russia and will reinforce allied deterrence and defence."

The leaders formally approved the deployment of new Nato battle groups in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, and Slovakia.

Following the Nato summit, a joint statement from the heads of state and government said: "We call on all states, including the People's Republic of China (PRC), to uphold the international order including the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, as enshrined in the UN Charter, to abstain from supporting Russia's war effort in any way, and to refrain from any action that helps Russia circumvent sanctions.

"We are concerned by recent public comments by PRC officials and call on China to cease amplifying the Kremlin's false narratives, in particular on the war and on Nato, and to promote a peaceful resolution to the conflict."

Nato is stepping up measures to protect Ukraine and members of the alliance from a Russian chemical or nuclear attack.

Secretary general Jens Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels: "Today we agreed to do more including cyber-security assistance and equipment to help Ukraine protect against biological, chemical, radiological and nuclear threats."

This could include detection equipment, protection and medical supplies, as well as training for decontamination and "crisis management".

Mr Stoltenberg said Nato's chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defence elements had been activated and "we are taking measures both to support Ukraine and to defend ourselves".

Asked whether the move was based on credible intelligence, Mr Stoltenberg said: "We are concerned, partly because we see the rhetoric and we see that Russia is trying to create some kind of pretext - accusing Ukraine, the United States, Nato allies - for preparing to use chemical and biological weapons."

Any use of chemical weapons "will totally change the nature of the conflict, it will be a blatant violation of international law and it will have widespread consequences".

He said Russia had used chemical weapons before - including in Salisbury - and had supported the Assad regime in Syria.

The Home Secretary Priti Patel has posted a photograph of herself on Twitter at a meeting with G7 interior ministers to discuss the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Alongside the photograph she tweeted: "Meeting of G7 Interior Ministers today to discuss our response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine - I set out the UK's humanitarian response and our schemes to welcome Ukrainians to the UK & the various forms of aid we are sending to Ukraine and the region.

"International allies must continue working together to denude (Vladimir) Putin of his ability to wage his barbaric war.

"There must be coordinated and robust enforcement of sanctions and firm action to protect the integrity of international law enforcement tools from Russian abuse."

Nato leaders were said to have agreed Russia using chemical weapons would mark a "fundamental change" in the Ukrainian conflict that would be met with a "very severe response".

A Western official said: "On the use of chemical weapons, we've all agreed (it) would be a fundamental change in the nature of the conflict that we would have to address."

But asked if that would include Nato troops on the ground in Ukraine, the official said: "I think it is highly unlikely that Nato would go directly into conflict with Russia because every leader agrees that we've got to stop the killing."

Most believe, the official said, that Nato entering the conflict directly would only escalate it and increase the killing and human suffering.

"I did hear leaders say that leaders say use of chemical weapons would fundamentally change the nature of the conflict and would have to have a very severe response," he said.

But he declined to outline what the response would be saying "we need to keep (Vladimir) Putin guessing".

Defence procurement minister Jeremy Quin said the UK "will always have a sufficiency of the weaponry we need to meet our needs" after a hoax video featuring Defence Secretary Ben Wallace emerged.

In one extract of a hoax call between Mr Wallace and an imposter posing as Ukrainian prime minister Denis Shmyhal, released on Tuesday, Mr Wallace seemingly suggested the UK is "running out of our own" NLAW anti-tank weapons.

Mr Quin told the PA news agency: "We will always have a sufficiency of the weaponry we need to meet our needs, whilst also supporting our friends in Ukraine, which we've done very effectively through the provision already of 4,000 anti-tank weapons."

He added: "We will do what's right. We speak regularly to the Ukrainian government and we are working very closely with them, not only in the provision of defensive equipment ourselves, but also in the convening of donor conferences for both defensive weapons and also for humanitarian support."

Boris Johnson said the UK and allies would "ramp up lethal aid to Ukraine" as its forces resist Vladimir Putin's invasion.

Speaking at a press conference in Brussels he said: "We will not stand by while Putin vents his fury on Ukraine."

The Prime Minister said kit would be provided "in the quantity and with the quality" needed by Ukraine to defend against "its bullying neighbour".

Mr Johnson has announced an extra 6,000 missiles and £25 million in unrestricted funding for Ukraine's armed forces.

He also promised a "new deployment of UK troops to Bulgaria, on top of doubling our troops both in Poland and in Estonia".

Boris Johnson said: "We must support a free and democratic Ukraine in the long term.

"This is a fellow European democracy, fighting a war of national defence.

"Nato and G7 leaders are also united today in our determination to continue turning the screws on the Kremlin's war machine, including by weaning ourselves off Russian oil and gas and reshaping global energy security."

Boris Johnson has said Western powers are looking to "steadily ratchet up" the volume of military material they are supplying to Ukraine.

Speaking following the Nato summit in Brussels the Prime Minister said no Western countries were currently looking to put "boots on the ground" or impose a no-fly zone.

"What we are doing is steadily ratcheting up the movement of lethal but defensive weaponry to Ukraine, that is growing in volume the whole time," he said.

Mr Johnson said it was proving difficult to meet a request by President Volodymyr Zelensky to supply tanks and warplanes.

"What President Zelensky want is to try to relieve Mariupol and to help the thousands of Ukrainian fighters in the city. To that end he does need armour as he sees it," he said.

"We are looking at what we can do to help. But logistically it looks very difficult both with armour and with jets."

Boris Johnson said there was not "a single person around the table" in Nato or the G7 who "is against Russia or the Russian people".

Speaking at a press conference in Brussels, the Prime Minister said: "Absolutely not, least of all me. I think I'm probably the only Prime Minister in UK history to be called Boris, I think I have that distinction, and I'm not remotely anti-Russian."

He said: "But I think what we all agree is that what Vladimir Putin is doing, the way he's leading Russia at the moment, is utterly catastrophic, that his invasion of Ukraine is inhuman and barbaric.

"And the conduct of that invasion is now moving into the type of behaviour that, as I said before, we haven't seen in the continent of Europe for 80 years, and it's horrific.

"So you can be sympathetic towards ordinary Russians, who are being so badly led, but you can be deeply hostile to the decisions of Vladimir Putin."

Any use of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons by Russia would be "viewed with utter horror" by world leaders, Boris Johnson said.

The Prime Minister said: "There is a visceral horror of the use of these weapons of mass destruction.

"I think that if (Vladimir) Putin were to engage in anything like that, the consequences would be very, very severe."

He added: "I think it would be catastrophic for him if he were to do that, and I think that he understands that."

The PM said US President Joe Biden was right to warn that Russia's claims about biological laboratories in Ukraine could be a "prelude to a false flag operation and they could well do something.

"But I think it would be a profound and a disastrous mistake for Putin were he to do that," he said.

Boris Johnson backed the idea of Ukraine automatically qualifying for the World Cup later this year.

The Prime Minister was asked if he would support the idea after he earlier said Ukraine should be handed the hosting of the next Euros competition.

Speaking in Brussels, he said: "Sounds like a good idea to me but I'm out of area here, I've got to admit that's not my strong subject.

"I don't see why not, is my view."

He added: "Let me put it this way, given what Ukraine has been going through, given the privations that Ukrainian footballers have had to endure, I'm sure that every possible sympathy and allowances should be made for them."

The Prime Minister said he thought the threats over nuclear weapons were a "distraction".

He said: "It's intended to be a distraction from what is really going on and that is a savage attack with conventional means on innocent people in urban centres in Ukraine, absolutely barbaric use of artillery and mortars and rockets as I've described, thermobaric bombs included it now seems, that is what is going on.

"And what we're talking about is the right of the Ukrainian people to be equipped with the weapons to defend themselves and all discussion of nuclear weapons is intended to frame this as a confrontation between Russia as a nuclear power and other nuclear powers. That's not what's going on.

"What's going on is a confrontation between Russia and entirely innocent people in Ukraine."

Boris Johnson also suggested the Kremlin was "trying to get around the sanctions on their gold".

He said: "We're taking steps to try to make sure that there's no leakage or no sale of bullion into markets around the world."

President Joe Biden has said Nato had never been more united than it is now in the face of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Following an emergency summit of alliance leaders in Brussels, Mr Biden said Vladimir Putin had miscalculated on its response.

"Putin was banking on Nato being split. It was clear to me that he didn't think we could sustain this cohesion," he said.

"Nato has never, never been more united. Putin is getting exactly the opposite of (what) he intended to have as a consequence of going into Ukraine."

Mr Biden, who has previously warned that Russia could use chemical weapons, said there would be a response if that happened.

"We would respond. We would respond if he uses it. The nature of the response would depend on the nature of the use," he said.

Boris Johnson has said he is "not optimistic that Vladimir Putin really wants" peace.

In a clip of an interview with the BBC's Newsnight programme, posted on social media, the Prime Minister was asked how seriously he was taking the peace talks between Russia and Ukraine.

He said while it was "entirely the sensible thing to do" he added: "If this thing could be solved, it would be fantastic. I've got to tell you I'm not optimistic Vladimir Putin really wants that.

"I think he's decided to double down and to try to Groznyfy the great cities of Ukraine in the way that he has always tried to do and I think that's a tragic mistake. But that's what he seems to be doing at the moment.

"Therefore, we need to do more as the West, intensifying the sanctions, sending more missiles as we announced today, 6,000 more missiles, toughening up our sanctions, doing more to stop leakage of Russian gold. All the ways in which we can tighten the screw on him."

The full interview is due to be aired later on Thursday.

Boris Johnson said Ukraine could win the war with Russia.

In an interview with BBC's Newsnight programme to be aired on Thursday night, he said: "I think Ukraine can certainly win. I don't think it's going to be easy, I think that the situation for the Ukrainians is grim, miserable.

"I don't think that we've seen anything like it for 80 years in Europe and what (Vladimir) Putin is doing is unconscionable.

"But there's a sense in which Putin has already failed or lost because I think that he had literally no idea that the Ukrainians were going to mount the resistance that they are and he totally misunderstood what Ukraine is.

"And far from extinguishing Ukraine as a nation he is solidifying it."

Boris Johnson has said that, even if Nato does not grant Ukraine full membership, allies would provide the country with so much support that Russia would not consider invading again.

In an interview with the BBC's Newsnight programme, to be aired on Thursday night, the Prime Minister said: "Over time, you can imagine that even if you can't have an Article 5 guarantee for Ukraine - I mean, full membership of Nato, inside the thermonuclear umbrella as it were - you can imagine that Western sympathisers of Ukraine will provide so much by way of equipment, training, intelligence as to create a kind of deterrence for Ukraine by denial - deterrence by denial of Russian possibility to invade again.

"What I'm talking about is so fortifying, so strengthening, the quills of the Ukrainian porcupine as to make it in future indigestible to the Russian invaders."

The UK and western allies have linked Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB) - the successor agency to the KGB - to "a historic global campaign targeting critical national infrastructure", the Foreign Office has said.

The department said the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) was "almost certain" that the FSB's Centre 16 - which it said was also known by its hacker group pseudonyms of Energetic Bear, Berserk Bear and Crouching Yeti - had targeted critical IT systems and national infrastructure in Europe, the Americas and Asia.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "Russia's targeting of critical national infrastructure is calculated and dangerous. It shows Putin is prepared to risk lives to sow division and confusion among allies.

"We are sending a clear message to the Kremlin by sanctioning those who target people, businesses and infrastructure. We will not tolerate it.

"We will continue to work together with our allies to turn the ratchet and starve Putin's war machine of its funding and resources."

The Foreign Office added Liz Truss had sanctioned a Russian defence ministry subsidiary, the Central Scientific Research Institute of Chemistry and Mechanics, for an incident where malware was used to target safety override controls in a Saudi petro-chemicals plant in 2017.

The malware used against the petro-chemical plant caused two emergency shutdowns.

The Foreign Office said the FSB had also previously targeted UK energy companies and the American aviation sector, and it accused the FSB of trying to "spear-phish" the press secretary of Mikhail Khodorkovskiy, a UK-based critic of Russian president Vladimir Putin.

Spear-phishing involves sending targeted electronic communications to a specific individual, group or company for purposes of stealing data, espionage or fraud.

Boris Johnson has said he "totally agrees" that Brexit and the Ukrainian resistance to the Russian invasion are not the same.

The Prime Minister has come under criticism for comments where he appeared to compare the UK voting to leave the EU, and the Ukrainian fight against Russia.

Speaking at the Conservative Party spring forum at the weekend, he said it was the "instinct of the people of this country, like the people of Ukraine, to choose freedom", with the Brexit vote a "famous recent example".

But speaking to BBC's Newsnight programme on Thursday, he said: "That was not an analogy that I was making. I'm afraid that was wildly misconstrued.

"I said, I think in the same passage, that there's been nothing like what we're seeing in Ukraine since 1945 and it is a horror, and it can't be compared to anything since 1945."

The Prime Minister said he "of course" welcomes tough questions over his involvement in the partygate saga as he said such probing would not be allowed in Vladimir Putin's Russia.

In an interview on the BBC's Newsnight programme, Boris Johnson was asked what it meant that his position had been saved by the invasion.

He said: "I think what it says is that we're very lucky to live in a country where journalists can quite properly go hard on this sort of question, this sort of issue, because I can tell you, Nick, that is not what happens in Vladimir Putin's Russia, and it's certainly something that we want to make sure continues to happen in Ukraine."

Asked if he would therefore welcome tough questions about partygate, where numerous parties were allegedly held across Whitehall during Covid restrictions, the PM laughed and then said: "Yes, of course. That is what it's all about. And it's about...and I mean it quite seriously."

He added: "I think what people understand is that if Vladimir Putin lived in a democracy, and if Vladimir Putin had Newsnight on his case, and people asking him really penetrating questions about what he really thought he was doing in in Ukraine and whether he really understood what kind of people the Ukrainians were, and if he'd really thought it through, I don't think he would have made the catastrophic mistake that he's made.

"And in a way, what he has done - this appalling invasion - is paradoxically an advertisement for the importance of the very system that he's trying to destroy in Ukraine. That's what we're trying to protect."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220324ei3o001p5


Slovak Press Today
873 字
2022 年 3 月 28 日 07:15 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, March 28 (SITA) -

MINISTER: Interior Minister Roman Mikulec's behavior bears clear signs of cronyism and smacks of a "deal" for his movement, OLaNO, VOICE-SD leader Peter told journalists on Friday. The media recently reported on a contract between the Interior Ministry and a private company that is to manage and coordinate a massive wave of refugees from Ukraine. Pellegrini urges Prime Minister Eduard Heger to oust Mikulec without delay. According to SMER-SD head Robert Fico, the interior minister is a "bargainer, a fraudster, and a criminal" and the best solution for Slovakia will be when he resigns. According to him, Mikulec must quit because the Interior Ministry has signed a framework agreement worth 2.5 million euros with Dustream Production that is to ensure the management of registration, transportation, and care of refugees. The House is set to hold an extraordinary session with a no-confidence vote in Mikulec on its agenda on Wednesday. NC-1,2,3 (26.3.) PLUS-1,2,3 (26.3.) HN-2,3 PRAVDA-1,2,3 (28.3.) PLUS-6 (28.3.) NC-6,7 (28.3.)

COURTS: Jan S. was released by the Specialized Criminal Court. The former chairman of the Slovak National Party (SNS) is accused of corruption. Special Prosecutor Matus Harkabus requested the custody for fears that Jan S. could influence witnesses and continue his criminal activity. Judge Jozef Pikna did not acknowledge the reasons for the collusive detention, but partially acknowledged the preventive reasons and ordered the supervision of the probation and mediation officer. The prosecutor filed a complaint against the decision. The Supreme Court will decide on the detention on March 31. SME-9 (26.3.) NC-6 (26.3.) NC-4 (27.3.) SME-17 (28.3.) PRAVDA-2,3 (28.3.) PLUS-5 (28.3.) NC-1,6,7 (28.3.)

COURTS: The Specialized Criminal Court has canceled the dates of trials in the murder case of journalist Jan Kuciak and his bride-to-be Martina Kusnirova, in which Marian K. and other persons stand accused. They should have continued from Monday, March 28 to Wednesday, March 30, but a prosecutor of the Special Prosecutor's Office lodged on Thursday an objection of bias in the murder case against Specialized Criminal Court judges Ruzena Sabova and Rastislav Stieranka. PRAVDA-5 (28.3.)

HOLOCAUST: Slovak MPs ask for forgiveness from relatives and descendants of victims of deportations of Jews from Slovakia. They did so in the resolution on the 80th anniversary of the first transport of Jews from Slovakia. President Zuzana Caputova warned that antisemitism had not disappeared; on the contrary, she noted, antisemitic incidents have been on the rise in recent years. PLUS-4 (26.3.)

ENERGY: US President Joe Biden and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced that the US will deliver 15 billion cubic meters of liquefied gas to Europe by the end of the year. The goal for the coming years will be to send about 50 billion cubic meters per year across the Atlantic (one tenth of EU’s consumption). This is a new agreement in reaction to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. EU countries have agreed to a joint purchase of gas and joint efforts to get rid of their dependence on Russian energy raw materials as soon as possible. A complete cut-off from Russia is expected to come by 2027. Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger explains that in Slovakia, we have regulated energy prices. "For this year, people are protected in regard to gas prices and for the next two years in regard to electricity prices," the prime minister added. NC-5 (26.3.) N-4,5

ECONOMY: So far, 7,483 applications for rent subsidies representing almost 8.378 million euros have been reimbursed in the third round of this state aid. Operations that were closed during the third pandemic wave can apply for the subsidy by late April. SITA

AIRPORT: Bratislava Airport offers brand-new connection with Zagreb, Croatia and also resumes regular flights to Sicily and Dalaman, Turkey. These are some novelties in the summer timetable, which came into force with daylight saving time beginning on Sunday, March 27. It will be valid until late October. "The number of regular lines from Bratislava Airport will increase from 20 to 35 compared to this winter. At the same time, passengers will be able to use thirty charter flights from the offer of travel agencies during the summer holiday season. HN-12 PLUS-8 (28.3.)

ENERGY: The European Union is adopting one sanction package after another due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The attention is now being drawn to the companies that operate in Slovakia, but have ties with Russian companies or organizations. The HN daily found out that one "risky" contract can also be the one between the power company Slovenske Elektrarne and the company Inovacionnaja Firma SNIIP. Although the company is based in Levice, the Innovative Company SNIIP ATOM based in Moscow is in its background. This institute is owned by the Russian giant Rosatom which is directly managed from the Kremlin. Slovenske Elektrarne confirmed the agreement, under which the Russians monitor the nuclear zone. HN-1,9

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020220328ei3s00001


Russia ties spark fury in TWO EU states as Hungary chooses 'cheap oil over Ukraine blood'
Antony Ashkenaz
591 字
2022 年 3 月 29 日 07:40 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE EUROPEAN Union is in chaos as member nations have expressed their fury at Hungary's inaction against Russia.

The Defence Ministers of Poland and Slovakia have pulled out of an EU meeting over Hungary’s lukewarm response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The upcoming Visegrad 4 meeting, which was scheduled to take place on March 30 and 31, appears to be cancelled, according to preliminary information from the Slovak defence ministry.

Related articles

The Visegrad 4 is an alliance consisting of Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, all of whom are EU and NATO members.

According to Gazeta Wyborcza, a leading local newspaper in Poland, Polish Defence Minister Mariusz Błaszczak decided to skip the meeting over Budapest’s reluctance to stand against Moscow.

Meanwhile, Czech Defence Minister Jana Černochová also suspended her participation on Friday as EU leaders meet in Brussels to discuss the sanctions on Russia.

Ms Černochová wrote on her Twitter: “I have always supported the V4 and I am very sorry that cheap Russian oil is now more important to Hungarian politicians than Ukrainian blood.”

With half the member states skipping the Visegrad 4, the Slovak Defence Ministry told Euractiv that the summit will likely be cancelled.

Hungary’s Prime Minister is widely considered to be an ally of Vladimir Putin and is the only one of Ukraine’s neighbours to not provide military support.

Hungary is heavily reliant on Russian gas, with AP reporting Mr Orban saying that 85 percent of Hungary’s gas and more than 60 percent of its oil comes from Russia.

It is important to note that Hungary has voted in favour of every sanction the EU has imposed against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

However, its heavy energy dependency on Russia means that it refused to ban Russian oil imports.

READ MORE: ‘We won’t destroy ourselves’ Hungary’s Orban hits back at Zelensky

On Sunday, Mr Orbán told public radio that energy sanctions on Russia would lead to “a complete shutdown of the Hungarian economy”.

Just before the invasion of Ukraine, he also called for an expansion of natural gas shipments from Russia.

With the energy crisis biting hard, Mr Orban asked Putin for an extension of Hungary’s 15-year gas contract with Russian energy company Gazprom to ensure larger-volume deliveries.

Last week, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto warned that his country would reject proposals to impose a no-fly zone, citing a risk to energy supplies.

DON'T MISS:

Morocco offers UK 'abundant resources' to slash Russian ties [SPOTLIGHT]

Solar storm warning: NASA predicts direct Earth hit from 'fast' impact [REVEAL]

Macron humiliated by Germany for being ‘dishonest’ over Russia crisis [INSIGHT]

He said: “We have entered a new dimension of risk of war in Ukraine, which is why we need to take tougher and clearer steps to ensure peace and security in Hungary, which is in our national interest.

“An agreement regarding possible EU sanctions against Russian energy supplies or their interruption will most likely not be reached.

"We will not support sanctions that could pose a risk to energy supplies for Hungary.

"Energy supply is not a philosophical or ideological issue, but a physical, mathematical one."

Related articles Putin humiliated as China deal 'won't make up' for EU loss India to step in and BACK Russia after Biden's Putin comment Russia to be 'big losers' after threatening UK project – NASA steps in

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220329ei3t001pb


Slovakia: US Steel looking for alternative raw material suppliers
M-Brain
95 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日
Esmerk Russian News
ESMERKRU
英文
Copyright 2022. M-Brain
Webnoviny, 04 Apr 2022, online:- It has been reported that US Steel Kosice (USSK), based in Kosice in Slovakia, is looking for alternative suppliers of raw materials, although its suppliers are currently filling raw material supplies smoothly. Supplies from Ukraine are also being fulfilled despite the war in the country. USSK's production is dependant on raw material supplies from Russia, Ukraine and the V4 countries. The company is following strict sanction lists for Russian imports. USSK doe not export its products to Russia.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMERKRU20220405ei450000x


EU launches ‘Isolate Russia from the world’ mission]]
EURACTIV Network
1659 字
2022 年 4 月 5 日 07:46 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

Before you start reading today’s edition of the Capitals, feel free to have a look at the article Ukraine war revives EastMed gas pipe talks but EU insists on feasibility[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/ukraine-war-revives-eastmed-gas-pipe-talks-but-eu-insists-on-feasibility/], by Sarantis Michalopoulos.

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

Today’s edition is powered by EuropaBio European Biotech Week 2022   EuropaBio is delighted to launch the 10th edition of the European Biotech Week. A week-long series of events all over Europe aims at highlighting the role of biotech in everyday life. Become an #EBW2022 partner and register your event or submit an essay! Learn More.[https://eurac.tv/9VWB]

In today’s news from the Capitals:

An increasing number of EU leaders have asked Brussels to push forward a fifth package of sanctions against Moscow following the atrocities and “unbearable scenes”, as French President Emmanuel Macron described, of the destroyed Ukrainian town of Bucha.

Several sources from the capitals confirmed to EURACTIV that a trade ban – as Warsaw recently requested – is now on the radar while EU leaders are still divided over gas imports. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/eu-launches-isolate-russia-from-the-world-mission/]

///

BERLIN

Berlin nationalises Gazprom Germania to block liquidation. The German government has, effective immediately, transferred the ownership of the German Gazprom subsidiary to the federal network agency as a trustee in a bid to save the country’s gas market. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/berlin-nationalises-gazprom-germania-to-block-liquidation/]

///

THE HAGUE

Ukraine expels Dutch journalist for revealing state secrets. Ukraine has declared Dutch journalist Robert Dulmers persona non grata and banned him from Ukraine until 2032, accusing him of having revealed state secrets after he filmed a missile launch. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/ukraine-expels-dutch-journalist-for-revealing-state-secrets/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS

HELSINKI | STOCKHOLM

Nordic Conservatives back NATO membership of Sweden, Finland. The possible NATO membership of Sweden and Finland is backed by the National Coalition Party (NCP) in Finland, the Moderate Party in Sweden, and prominent conservative figures from Norway and Denmark. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/nordic-conservatives-back-nato-membership-of-sweden-finland/]

///

COPENHAGEN

Denmark’s former spy chief spied on by colleagues. Lars Finden, the former head of Danish Defence Intelligence Service (FE), was reportedly spied on by his former colleagues, Danmarks Radio (DR) Danmarks Radio (DR) revealed on Monday in what could be one of the biggest intelligence scandals since World War II. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/denmarks-former-spy-chief-spied-on-by-colleagues/]

///

REYKJAVIK 

Iceland to welcome more Ukrainian refugees despite logistical issues. Iceland will continue welcoming Ukrainian refugees despite struggling with logistical issues for a wave it was not prepared for. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/iceland-to-welcome-more-ukrainian-refugees-despite-logistical-issues/]

///

VILNIUS

Lithuania expels Russian ambassador. Russia’s Ambassador to Lithuania will have to leave the country due to a downgrading of diplomatic relations amid the war in Ukraine, the foreign ministry announced on Monday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/lithuania-expels-russian-ambassador/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ATHENS

Sources: Greece does not block Finland’s NATO accession. Sources from the Greek foreign ministry denied rumours in Helsinki that suggest Athens blocks Finland’s potential accession to NATO, EURACTIV Greece reported. Read More.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/sources-greece-does-not-block-finlands-nato-accession/]

///

MADRID

Spanish police seize luxury yacht of Putin’s friend. The Spanish Civil Guard on Monday seized the Russian-owned luxury yacht Tango, moored at the Real Club Nautico in Palma, on the island of Mallorca, EURACTIV’s partner EFE reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spanish-police-seize-luxury-yacht-of-putins-friend/]

///

LISBON

Portugal condemns Russia’s reported atrocities in Bucha. Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa has, together with the government, condemned Russian forces for the reported atrocities committed in Bucha, Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/portugal-condemns-russias-reported-atrocities-in-bucha/]

VISEGRAD 

BRATISLAVA

Slovak nuclear plants serviced by Gazprom-linked company. Slovak nuclear power plant operator Slovenské elektrárne a.s. has service contracts with Škoda JS, owned by Russian Gazoprombank, leading to a fear of security breaches and the risk of future sanctions. EURACTIV Slovakia reports. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/slovak-nuclear-plants-serviced-by-gazprom-linked-company/]

///

WARSAW

Former Russian PM proposes to sanction Polish ruling party. Russia should sanction the Polish ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party and its’ voters in retaliation to Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki’s proposal to sanction members of President Vladimir Putin’s United Russia party, former Russian president and prime minister said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/former-russian-pm-proposes-to-sanction-polish-ruling-party/]

///

PRAGUE | BUDAPEST

Czech Pirates unhappy with Orban’s win. Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala congratulated Hungary’s Viktor Orban on his election win, while other politicians from his party, including Foreign Minister Jan Lipavský were much more critical. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czech-pirates-unhappy-with-orbans-win/]

///

BUDAPEST 

Fidesz’s landslide reinforces female underrepresentation in parliament. The proportion of male and female MPs in the Hungarian legislature is set to stay the same after the general elections on Sunday, Telex reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/fideszs-landslide-reinforces-female-underrepresentation-in-parliament/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Bulgaria asks Turkey to help bring back sailors from Ukraine. Bulgarian President Rumen Radev has urged Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan to take joint action in rescuing Bulgarian and Turkish sailors stranded in Ukrainian ports. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bulgaria-asks-turkey-to-help-remove-sailors-from-ukraine/]

///

BUCHAREST

Zelenskyy warns Putin could go further in address to Romanian MPs. The security of the whole of Europe is at play on the Ukrainian territory, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Romania’s parliament Monday evening, calling on the West to unite against Russian aggressors to prevent a ”genocide in Europe.” Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/zelenskyy-warns-putin-could-go-further-in-address-to-romanian-mps/]

///

ZAGREB

Croatia joined NATO only because of US, says president. Croatia joined NATO only because of the US’ help and protection, President Zoran Milanović said at the opening of a Croatian-US forum underway in Zagreb on Monday and Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/croatia-joined-nato-only-because-of-us-says-president/]

///

LJUBLJANA 

Jansa appointed top bank job in conflict of interest, watchdog finds. Slovenia’s anti-graft watchdog found Prime Minister Janez Janša to be in a conflict of interest when he voted for Franci Matoz, his long-time lawyer, for a top job at the Bank Assets Management Company (BAMC). Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/jansa-appointed-top-bank-job-in-conflict-of-interest-watchdog-finds/]

///

Slovenia ‘very interested’ in Croatian LNG terminal. Slovenia is very interested in gas from Croatia’s LNG terminal, which has ensured 300 million cubic metres in additional capacity, for which a tender will be advertised, Slovenian Infrastructure Minister Jernej Vrtovec said on Monday at a meeting with Croatian Economy Minister Tomislav Ćorić.

Vrtovec said Slovenia was considering diversifying gas supply so as not to be dependent on supply from Russia. The infrastructure for the additional 300 million cubic metres of natural gas already exists, he said, adding that Slovenia would be able to procure nearly one-third of its gas needs via the LNG terminal off Krk island in the northern Adriatic. Asked if Slovenia was interested in building another reactor at the Krško nuclear power plant and if Croatia would be included, Vrtovec said Slovenia was very interested and that this would be discussed. (Željko Trkanjec | EURACTIV.hr)

///

BELGRADE 

International observers deplore conditions in Serbian elections. The election process in Serbia was marked by unequal conditions for participants in elections, resulting from government representatives favoured by the majority of media outlets, pressure on employees in public companies, and abuse of administrative resources, observers from international organisations stated in Belgrade on Monday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/international-observers-deplore-conditions-in-serbian-elections/]

///

SARAJEVO | ZAGREB

US envoy: Ukraine crisis will not spill over to Western Balkans. The war in Ukraine cannot spill over to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia is an example of a smart energy policy, US special envoy for the Western Balkans, Gabriel Escobar, said on Monday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/us-envoy-ukraine-crisis-will-not-spill-over-to-western-balkans/]

///

SARAJEVO 

BiH’s Covic praises Vucic and Orban for their election victories. Dragon Čović, leader of HDZ BiH, the biggest Croat party, congratulated Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for winning the elections in their countries, calling Vučić’s victory “historic” and Orbán’s “magnificent”. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bihs-covic-praises-vucic-and-orban-for-their-election-victories/]

///

SKOPJE | BUDAPEST

North Macedonia opposition leader in Budapest with Orban. Hristijan Mickoski, the leader of the opposition VMRO-DPMNE, who congratulated the victory of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić, attended Fidesz’s election party in Budapest.

At Orbán’s personal invitation, Mickoski and his party’s vice-president Aleksandar Nikoloski were waiting for the results of the elections in Hungary at the Fidesz party office. Orbán’s victory is very important because he has personal ties with VMRO-DPMNE and (North) Macedonia and will do everything possible for (North) Macedonia to progress towards the EU, towards a better standard of living, and towards more investments, writes Nikoloski.

The Hungarian PM gave asylum to Nikola Gruevski, former North Macedonia Prime Minister who fled the country citing judicial persecution. (Željko Trkanjec | EURACTIV.hr)

///

PODGORICA 

US urges Montenegro to impose sanctions on Russia. The US calls on Montenegro to apply the sanctions that the EU imposed on Russia, the US Ambassador to Montenegro Judy Raising Reinke has said. Read More.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/us-urges-montenegro-to-impose-sanctions-on-russia/]

///

PRISTINA | TIRANA

Kosovo and Albanian leaders condemn Russian atrocities in Bucha. Albanian leaders in Kosovo and Albania are united in their condemnation of reported atrocities in Bucha and other towns and cities around Kyiv in Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/kosovo-and-albanian-leaders-condemn-russian-atrocities-in-bucha/]

AGENDA:

* EU: College of Commissioners meets / Economy and finance ministers (Ecofin) meet in Luxembourg / European Parliament questions European Commission President von der Leyen on EU executive’s mid-term results and then EU’s chief diplomat Borrell on Strategic Compass.

* NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg holds press conference before foreign ministers’ meeting.

* Germany: Donor conference to help Moldova with refugees from Ukraine,  Germany’s Baerbock, France’s Le Drian will brief press after the event in Berlin.

* Sweden: Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson hosts Norwegian counterpart Jonas Gahr Store in Stockholm.

* Spain: Ukraine’s President Zelenskyy to address Spanish parliament by video conference.

* Greece: Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias hosts Cypriot Ioannis Kasoulides and Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid in Athens, also hosts US Undersecretary of State Victoria Nuland.

* Poland: Regional Policy Commissioner Elisa Ferreira in Poland to visits the border crossing in Korczowa and reception centre with Polish Minister of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda.

* Bosnia and Herzegovina: Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenković visits Mostar to attend the ceremony of opening the 23rd international business fair.

* UN Security Council meeting on situation in Ukraine.

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Alexandra Brzozowski, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220405ei4500003


Putin sparks EU revolt over plans to cut Russian gas – Slovakia warned of £250m loss
Jacob Paul
697 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日 11:41 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
SLOVAKIA could lose up to €300million a year if the EU pulls the plug on Russia's gas.

The European Commission has come under intense pressure to immediately stop importing all of Vladimir Putin’s hydrocarbons. The European Parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of an instant ban on all Russian fossil fuels yesterday, with MEPs slamming Commission President von der Leyen for not being tough enough. The bloc has threatened that it will come down heavy on Russia after alleged war crimes in Bucha were exposed.

Related articles

The fifth sanction package includes a ban on coal, and oil and gas bans are expected to follow next.

The EU, which gets 40 percent of its gas from Russia, has still nothing to damage Putin’s gas empire despite handing him €35billion for energy imports since the Ukraine war began.

But European Council President Charles Michel has said sanctions on oil and gas will have to be slapped down “sooner or later”.

This could be a worry for Slovakia, which makes €300million a year through dividends and taxes on gas, according to a Finstat institution study.

Slovakia is a key transit country for Russia’s gas to reach Europe and has reportedly seen soaring profits that could be at risk as the EU eyes up more sanctions.

The study revealed that 40 to 70 billion cubic metres of Russian gas transits through Slovakia each year.

The Slovakian state also has a 51 percent stake in Eustream, the company that oversees the transportation of Russia’s gas to western Europe.

And that €300million annual revenue loss would fall on Eustream.

The company’s dividends are around €100million per year, while its income tax makes up another €125million .

READ MORE: Rolls-Royce to roll out 'affordable, sustainable and secure' nuclear

The rest of the revenue comes from VAT paid by the company.

The Slovakian state’s total revenue from energy is between €400 and €600 million.

But if Russia’s gas was cut off due to sanctions, Eustream would be hit directly.

Slovakia’s dependency on both Russian gas and oil is one of the highest in Europe, with 87 percent of gas and two-thirds of its oil coming from Russia.

Despite this, the country is yet to come up with a game plan to cut ties with Russia, despite other heavily dependent countries doing so.

DON'T MISS

UK makes another 'stunning' nuclear fusion breakthrough: World-first’ [REVEAL]

Putin's plot to hold Germany to ransom could end in disaster [INSIGHT]

Orban leads EU revolt of FIVE states against Russia energy sanctions [REPORT]

Related articles

Germany, which gets just under a third of its gas from Russia, has struck a deal with Qatar to receive deliveries of its liquified natural gas .

Lithuanian Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis has said that oil is “quite easily replaceable” and urged that energy sanctions are “necessary”.

Slovakia’s biggest oil producer, Slovnaft, has said that it may be able to get oil from the south instead via the Adria pipeline.

The country's Economy Minister Richard Sulík has said that Slovakia cannot afford to stop importing Russian natural gas and will pay for it in rubles if necessary.

And the country is not alone in the revolt.

Also not too keen on banning Russian imports are Hungary, Austria, Italy and the Netherlands, who all fear that the move would cause chaos to their economies and energy security.

Germany, while changing its tone in recent weeks, has raised the alarm over slashing ties with Putin as 40 percent of its gas comes from Russia.

Cutting off Russian oil would also deal a huge blow to Russia, as the bloc pays more for its oil compared to any other energy source.

Last year, the EU imported a staggering €48.5billion of crude oil in 2021, and €22.5billion of petroleum oils other than crude.

Related articles US reveals hypersonic missile test, risks escalating Russia tension EU unleashes legal fury – Portugal sued over radiation failure Energy crisis lifeline: UK opens North Sea taps to slash Russia relian

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220408ei48002xl


Central Europe torn on severing Russian energy supplies
418 字
2022 年 4 月 12 日 15:24 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Former communist countries in Central Europe were split Tuesday on whether to sever vital Russian energy supplies as their foreign ministers met near Prague.

The diversification of energy imports has become a hot issue across the European Union since oil- and gas-rich Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.

In 2021, Russia supplied 45 percent of the EU 's coal imports, 25 percent of its oil imports and around 45 percent of its gas imports.

Hydrocarbons are Russia's most important exports, and the EU is its biggest customer.

On the bloc's eastern flank, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have vowed to minimise their energy dependence, a legacy of four decades of communist rule in the region during the Soviet era.

But Hungary, whose Prime Minister Viktor Orban won a fourth straight term this month, has taken a more cautious approach.

"We have one clear red line which is the energy security of Hungary," Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said after meeting his Austrian, Czech, Slovak and Slovenian counterparts at a castle.

Szijjarto, from Orban's Fidesz party, said Hungary had backed all of the EU 's sanction packages since the invasion but added that "we cannot sign up to" oil or gas sanctions.

"We have been working a lot on diversification in the past, we are going to work on diversification in the future as well, but we will always guarantee the safe supply of energy of Hungary," he told reporters.

Slovak Foreign Minister Ivan Korcok said his country was ready to forego Russian oil and gas but underscored it would take time.

"We want to decouple from that... Nevertheless, the reality is we cannot do it overnight."

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky vowed to speed up the debate as his country takes over the rotating EU presidency in July as "Russian income from the trade with the EU must be minimised".

The Czech state-run power group CEZ said Tuesday it would replace a Russian nuclear fuel supplier for its two plants with US and French suppliers as of 2024.

CEZ chose US-based Westinghouse and France's Framatome in a tender and snubbed its current supplier TVEL , a unit of the Russian state-run Rosatom group, to "minimise the risk of a potential supply failure".

Regional economic powerhouse Poland, which did not take part in the meeting Tuesday, hopes to free itself from Russian gas by next year, and eventually from Russian oil as well.

frj/amj

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220412ei4c00c45


Neighbouring Russia causes business problems in Finland]]
EURACTIV Network
1122 字
2022 年 4 月 18 日 07:47 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

Today’s edition is powered by Solidaridad.

The 10 changes needed for the CSDD to make an impact where it is needed most

The European Commission’s proposal on Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence misses the opportunity to require businesses to respect human rights & the environment across their value chains and improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers, workers & miners. Here is how they can fix it: Continue Reading >>[https://eurac.tv/9VYA]

In today’s news from the Capitals:

HELSINKI

Since the war started in Ukraine, foreign investors and employees view Finland hesitantly due to the 1,300-kilometre-long border with Russia, with some even considering it a possible risk factor. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/neighbouring-russia-causes-business-problems-in-finland/]

///

EU INSTITUTIONS 

Greece, Cyprus and Malta block sanctions against Russia-owned ships. The governments of Athens, Nicosia and Valetta have blocked sanctions aiming to ban Russian ships or those with Russian interests from EU ports, EURACTIV Greece has learned. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/greece-cyprus-and-malta-block-sanctions-against-russia-owned-ships/]

///

PARIS

Macron holds rally in Marseille to win over Mélenchon voters. With just a week to go before the final round of the presidential election, President Emmanuel Macron held a rally Saturday in Marseille to win over young people who overwhelmingly voted for rivals Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Marine Le Pen in the first round. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/macron-holds-rally-in-marseille-to-win-over-melenchon-voters/]

///

VIENNA

Austria wants to prosecute Russian war crimes. The justice ministry has confirmed its intention to order the public prosecutors’ office to begin to clarify “the requirements for domestic jurisdiction in the case of war crimes,” press agency APA reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/austria-wants-to-prosecute-russian-war-crimes/]

///

THE HAGUE | BRATISLAVA

Dutch Patriot missile system arrives in Slovakia after convoy collision. The Dutch Patriot missile unit arrived in Slovakia after one of the three convoys suffered a collision in the Czech Republic, the NL Times reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/dutch-patriot-missile-system-arrives-in-slovakia-after-convoy-collision/]

UK AND IRELAND

LONDON

Archbishop condemns Rwanda asylum plan. The backlash against the UK government’s controversial £120 million plan to outsource the processing of thousands of asylum seeker claims to Rwanda continued over the weekend with criticism from the Archbishop of Canterbury, the head of the Anglican Church. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/archbishop-condemns-rwanda-asylum-plan/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS

STOCKHOLM

Swedish minister promises tough response to violent protesters. Protesters who attacked the police during riots in Norrköping and Linköping will face a “tough” response,  Interior and Justice Minister Morgan Johansson told a press conference on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/swedish-minister-promises-tough-response-to-violent-protesters/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME

Italian ports now off-limits for Russian vessels. Italy has banned Russian-flagged vessels from its ports from Sunday as part of the EU’s fifth sanction package against Russia. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/italian-ports-now-off-limits-for-russian-vessels/]

///

MADRID

Spain keeps face mask rule in public transport and health centres. Face masks will be mandatory in public transport and health centres “with no exceptions” as of Wednesday, Health Minister Carolina Darias has warned. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spain-keeps-face-mask-rule-in-public-transport-and-health-centres/]

Spanish Hipra vaccine to soon join EU market. The Spanish DNA-based vaccine produced by Hipra pharma could soon be made available.

The Hipra vaccine has achieved 100% efficacy in humanised mouse models and could be approved for human use in the EU “by the end of May or early June”, science minister Diana Morant has said, EFE had reported.[https://www.efe.com/efe/espana/efefuturo/morant-apunta-que-la-vacuna-de-hipra-podria-comercializarse-a-finales-mayo/50000905-4781523]

According to the pharma company, the new vaccine will be cheaper. It will also grant a higher level of protection and be easier to store than the mRNA vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna. A total of 103,266 people have died in Spain since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to official data. (Fernando Heller | EuroEFE.EURACTIV.es)

VISEGRAD 

BRATISLAVA

Slovakia offers to repair Ukrainian military equipment. Slovakia has offered to repair Ukrainian military vehicles in a factory in Moldava Nad Bodvou, near the Ukrainian borders, defence minister Jaroslav Naď (OĽaNO) announced. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/slovakia-offers-to-repair-ukrainian-military-equipment/]

///

WARSAW

Wounded Ukrainian soldiers to be treated in Polish hospitals. Some Ukrainian soldiers wounded in fighting are being taken to Polish hospitals for treatment, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/wounded-ukrainian-soldiers-to-be-treated-in-polish-hospitals/]

///

PRAGUE

Czech FM says Russian ‘ban’ on weapons export to Ukraine is nonsense. Russia’s demand to stop arms exports to Ukraine does not make any sense, the Czech foreign ministry said after Russia told the Czech Republic in a diplomatic note that they were banned from sending weapons to Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czech-fm-says-russian-ban-on-weapons-export-to-ukraine-is-nonsense/]

///

BUDAPEST 

Third of young Hungarians would try their luck abroad, survey reveals. The number of young Hungarians considering moving abroad has reached a high, K&H Bank found in a representative survey commissioned for the first quarter of its 2022 youth index, Telex reported via MTI. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/third-of-young-hungarians-would-try-their-luck-abroad-survey-reveals/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Experts: US delays F-16 fighter jets over trust issues with Bulgaria. The delay in delivering the new American F-16 fighter jets may be due to a lack of trust in the Bulgarian authorities, which have not proven that they can reliably protect NATO secrets, two former Bulgarian defence ministers have said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/experts-us-delays-f-16-fighter-jets-over-trust-issues-with-bulgaria/]

///

ZAGREB

Croatian inflation highest since summer 2008. Prices of goods and services for personal consumption, measured by the consumer prices index, were on average 7.3% higher this March than the previous year, the Croatian statistical office (DZS) said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/croatian-inflation-highest-since-summer-2008/]

///

BELGRADE 

World Bank concerned by Ukraine war impact on Serbia’s energy dependence. The consequences of the war in Ukraine will be devastating for Ukraine and Russia, World Bank chief economist for Europe and Central Asia, Asli Demirguc-Kunt, said on Saturday, adding that the war would also affect the Western Balkans and that energy dependency was a serious concern in Serbia. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/world-bank-concerned-by-ukraine-war-impact-on-serbias-energy-dependence/]

///

SARAJEVO 

Germany suspends project financing in RS over BiH obstruction by Serbia. Germany has suspended the funding of infrastructure projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Serb entity Republika Srpska because its political leaders are obstructing the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s central authorities and bringing its stability into question, the foreign ministry said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/germany-suspends-project-financing-in-rs-over-bih-obstruction-by-serbia/]

///

PRISTINA

Foreign embassies tell Kosovo government not to speculate after police attack. EU and US Embassies in Pristina have called on the Kosovo government to refrain from speculating on the origin of a firearm attack that targeted their police on the border with Serbia. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/foreign-embassies-tell-kosovo-government-not-to-speculate-after-police-attack/]

///

TIRANA | BERLIN

Albanian ‘ministry of propaganda’ not based on German model. The Director of Albania’s controversial Media and Information Agency (MIA), Endri Fuga, claimed that the institution is based on the German model, but EURACTIV Germany confirmed this is not true. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/albanian-ministry-of-propaganda-not-based-on-german-model/]

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Alexandra Brzozowski, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220418ei4i00001


News
EU ban on Moscow's oil 'will come at a cost': Germany warns of knock-on effect for consumers as it backs new sanction
Lewis Pennock For The Daily Mail
362 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日 21:58 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* Bloc could be forced to soften announcement after Hungary threatened a veto

* Slovakia and Hungary could be offered 'an exemption' or 'long transition period'

* Yesterday Poland said it was now ready to be independent from Russian oil firms

Germany last night backed an EU-wide ban on Russian oil – but warned it will ‘come at a cost’.

The bloc could also be forced to soften any announcement after Hungary threatened to veto an outright ban.

The EU’s sixth package of sanctions could be unveiled as soon as today but would require unanimous agreement of all 27 member countries.

Robert Habeck, Germany’s economy minister and deputy chancellor, said Berlin backed the ban but warned of the knock-on effect for consumers.

EU sources conceded yesterday that Slovakia and Hungary could be offered ‘an exemption or a long transition period’ to keep the bloc united.

Poland said yesterday it is ready to be independent from Russian oil and is willing to support other countries to cut their supplies.

Austria and Italy have also expressed reservations about a total ban by the end of 2022.

Around half of Russia’s 4.7 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude exports go to the EU, which has paid around £17bn for Russian energy since the invasion on February 24.

EU ministers met in Brussels yesterday to discuss their response to Russia’s decision last week to cut gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland, which was branded ‘blackmail’.

Energy giant Gazprom says the two countries failed to pay their bills in April.

The two countries had refused to accept Russian President Vladimir Putin’s demand that ‘unfriendly’ countries must start paying for gas in Russian rubles.

More Gazprom bills are due on May 20, and the bloc is wary that Russia might turn off more taps then.

Britain has already pledged to phase out imports of Russian oil by the end of the year. Russian imports recently accounted for 8pc of total UK oil demand.

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220502ei52007sr


Foreign Policy
Galek: Slovakia Won't Tear Unity of EU When It Comes to Payments for Russian Gas
361 字
2022 年 5 月 3 日 07:43 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Brussels, May 3 (TASR-correspondent) - Slovakia won't "tear" the unity of the EU if there is an agreement to ban paying for Russian gas in roubles, Economy Ministry State Secretary Karol Galek stated following the extraordinary meeting of the EU Energy Council in Brussels on Tuesday evening.

European ministers responsible for energy in their respective countries met in Brussels on Tuesday to discuss the energy situation of the EU and some of its member states in light of the ongoing Russian aggression in Ukraine. At the meeting, Galek accompanied Economy Minister Richard Sulik (SaS).

Galek told the media that the Russians have set up rouble accounts for all EU countries on the basis of the decree issued by Russian President Vladimir Putin and specified that now it's only a matter of activating these accounts.

"Slovakia's payment for April is due on May 20. This means that we will be among the last countries to tell [which currency we will use]. It's possible that some countries, as gas is still flowing to Europe, have already [made payments in roubles]," Galek said, referring to a scheme in the form of a euro-to-rouble transfer via Gazprombank.

The secretary noted that the European Commission "unfortunately" hasn't issued a clear position on how individual member states should proceed. He pointed out that at first there was talk in Brussels that such a scheme was a possible violation of EU sanctions, but now it doesn't seem that way at all.

"This is mainly because the payments, under the current settings, are made in euros and only Gazprom's account should be credited with payments in roubles," Galek clarified.

The secretary stressed in this regard that Slovakia won't "tear" the unity of the EU if it's reached in this matter. "But it's very important for [Slovakia] to preserve the flow of gas to Europe. Every single sanction that is imposed on Russia must harm Russia in the first place and not the one who imposed the sanctions," Galek remarked.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220503ei530008d


Foreign Policy
Sulik: Slovakia Wants Three-year Transitional Period for Russian Oil Supplies
397 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 12:57 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, May 4 (TASR) - Slovakia is asking the European Union for a three-year exemption from the embargo on Russian oil imports, Economy Minister Richard Sulik (Freedom and Solidarity/SaS) stated following the Government meeting on Wednesday, refusing to link Slovakia's position with that of the Hungarian government which rejects the embargo and demands a permanent exemption.

"It isn't true that we won't join the sanctions against Russia," said Sulik, adding that, however, Slovakia is in a specific position together with Hungary and the Czech Republic as other countries have the opportunity to change oil suppliers immediately. Only 10-20 percent of Russian oil is supplied to Europe by pipeline, the rest is imported by ship. "We agree with this sanction but say that we'll need a transitional period until we adapt to the new situation," noted Sulik.

According to the minister, the problem is the insufficient capacity of the Adria pipeline, while a change in technology at oil-refiner Slovnaft related to the supply of a different type of oil will also require some time and money, and Sulik also thinks that the fact that half of Slovakia's oil storage facilities are located in eastern Slovakia is a serious problem. At the same time, the pipeline is not technically ready for reverse operation, which could be used to fill these storage tanks during deliveries from the Adria pipeline.

It is not yet clear whether and what transitional period the EU will allow Slovakia. However, Sulik pointed out that when oil supplies change, it's possible to expect an increase in the price of diesel.

The economy minister reiterated that more than the embargo, Russia would be hit by lower energy prices on world markets. According to him, this could be achieved at least by temporarily stopping trading in emission allowances, which would reduce the price per megawatt-hour of electricity by €88 from the current approximately €200. According to Sulik, Germany's statement that it will postpone the planned shutdown of three nuclear power plants would be enough to further reduce the price of electricity. The price of electricity is linked to the price of gas, which in turn is to some extent linked to the price of oil. However, Germany has confirmed its plans in recent days.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220504ei54001p5


UPDATE 1-Slovakia wants 3-year transition to EU Russian oil embargo
304 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 12:04 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
(Adds quotes)

May 4 (Reuters) - Slovakia wants a three-year transition period for it to phase in the European Union's proposed embargo on Russian oil, Economy Minister Richard Sulik said on Wednesday.

Slovakia gets nearly all of its imported crude from Russia mainly via the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline, and it has joined Hungary, also highly reliant on Russian supplies, in seeking an exemption from oil embargo plans the bloc is working up.

The EU's chief executive on Wednesday also proposed, as part of new measures, sanctions on Russia's top bank and a ban on Russian broadcasters from European airwaves.

The European Commission's measures see phasing out Russian crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of 2022.

"We agree with this sanction, but are saying that we need a transitory period until we adapt to the situation," Sulik told a news briefing in Bratislava, broadcast by Slovak daily Dennik N. "What is being discussed today is the duration of the transitory period."

Sulik said the longer transition would give it time to secure alternative supplies.

An EU source told Reuters on Wednesday that Hungary and Slovakia would be able to continue buying Russian crude oil until the end of 2023 under existing contracts.

The EU's oil embargo, if agreed, would follow the United States and Britain, which have already imposed bans to cut one of the largest income streams for the Russian economy.

Ambassadors from the EU's 27 governments are widely expected to adopt the Commission proposals as early as this week, allowing them to become law soon after.

(Reporting by Robert Muller and Jason Hovet in Prague; editing by Louise Heavens and Jason Neely)

Released: 2022-5-4T13:04:38.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220504ei5402f9p


Live updates | UN: More than 300 evacuated from Mariupol
By The Associated Press
3029 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 23:21 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The United Nations says more than 300 civilians from the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol and four other towns have been evacuated to Ukrainian-held Zaporizhzhia in a second successful operation to get civilians out of areas subject to Russian shelling and attacks.

Osnat Lubrani, the U.N. humanitarian chief in Ukraine, said in a statement that many of the civilians from Mariupol, Manhush, Berdiansk, Tokmak and Vasylivka came Wednesday with nothing but the clothes they were wearing and are now getting humanitarian assistance. She said they'll also receive “much- needed psychological support.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the 344 evacuated Wednesday are in addition to the more than 150 people who were evacuated earlier this week from the bunkers under the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, which is surrounded by Russian troops and reportedly came under renewed fire on Wednesday.

No civilians were reported evacuated from the plant on Wednesday. Zelenskyy said they are trying to reach an agreement to save those remaining at Azovstal, including women and children.

___

KEY DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR: — AP evidence points to 600 dead in Mariupol theater[https://apnews.com/article/Russia-ukraine-war-mariupol-theater-c321a196fbd568899841b506afcac7a1] airstrike

— EU takes major step toward Russian oil ban[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-global-trade-moscow-europe-c6c7a1960b88c363ce5f3eaf0ea07dcd], new sanctions

— Why Russia is attacking Ukraine's railways[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-migration-4129b6c37dfff07ec63ebdbb05ef37a2]

— Russia storms Mariupol steel plant[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-donetsk-organization-for-security-and-cooperation-in-5de7bbc536a8da94c0d9586b95817612] as some evacuees reach safety

— Pope Francis struggles to make progress in Ukraine peace effort[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-pope-francis-diplomacy-europe-83a98bf40d2c51ba8a1de88e847c6e70]

— EU eyes sanctions for head of the Russian Orthodox Church[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-pope-francis-europe-religion-european-union-99cf29b70263256d8a1520af87675a3f]

Follow all AP stories on Russia’s war on Ukraine at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

___

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS:

The commander of the main defending force at the Azovstal steel mill in the strategic Ukrainian port city of Mariupol says Russian troops have broken into the territory of the mill, where limited evacuations of besieged civilians occurred last week.

The Russian government, meanwhile, pledged to facilitate humanitarian corridors from Thursday through Saturday to enable more evacuations.

In a video posted Wednesday, Denys Prokopenko, commander of the Ukrainian Azov regiment, said the incursions had continued a second day “and there are heavy, bloody battles.”

Azovstal remains one of the biggest hubs of Ukrainian military resistance and has been subjected to massive Russian aerial bombardments and shelling. Russian State TV showed smoke rising over Azovstal.

Hundreds of Ukrainian forces from different parts of the army, as well as civilians, remain in the plant’s underground shelters.

___

Sweden’s foreign minister says the United States is willing to provide “security assurances” during the application period if Sweden and neighboring Finland seek membership in NATO.

Ann Linde spoke to Swedish public broadcaster SVT on Wednesday from Washington after meetings with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.

Linde said there is great interest from the U.S. in Sweden and Finland joining NATO.

Jolted by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Sweden and Finland appear ready to revoke their long-standing policy of military non-alignment and apply for NATO membership.

Russia has warned of unspecified consequences if that happens and both countries have been looking for some form of NATO protection from the moment they apply to when they become members, a process that can take months.

___

A Russian government statement said its armed forces and their allies would open a humanitarian corridor on specified hours from Thursday through Saturday from the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, Ukraine, so civilians can be evacuated.

The statement appeared on the Telegram messaging app Wednesday and pledged the forces would refrain from military actions, withdraw to a safe distance and facilitate the withdrawal of the civilians to any destination they choose.

But there was no immediate confirmation of those arrangements from other sources and similar promises to set up evacuation corridors have collapsed, because of what the Ukrainians blamed on continued fighting by Russians. A United Nations spokesman said discussions about future evacuations were ongoing.

___

Air raid sirens sounded in cities across Ukraine on Wednesday night and missile fire followed shortly after in the cities of Cherkasy, Dnipro and Zaporizhzhia.

In Dnipro, Mayor Borys Filatov said one strike hit the center of the city. The strikes in Dnipro also hit a railroad facility, authorities initially said, without elaborating. Ukrainian Railways said none of its staff were injured in the Dnipro attack.

Complaining that the West is “stuffing Ukraine with weapons,” Russia bombarded railroad stations and other supply-line points across the country. Meanwhile, the European Union moved to further punish Moscow for the war by proposing a ban on oil imports, a crucial source of revenue for Russia.

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says the sanctions imposed by his country and others against Moscow over its war in Ukraine will set back Russia’s economic development by decades if they remain in place.

Scholz told reporters in Berlin on Wednesday that Russia cannot hope to win a peace with Ukraine unless Kyiv supports it.

“A peace by diktat will not work,” he said.

___

In a video message posted on Twitter, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed the European Union’s decision to propose an embargo on Russian oil. He said Ukraine isn’t happy it will be delayed for several months, but “it’s better than nothing.”

Kuleba said it should be clear now “that times for half-sanctions or half-measures when it comes to sanctions is gone.” He says the EU can no longer support Ukraine on one hand by imposing sanctions, while continuing to pay Russia for oil and gas and support their “war machine.”

He also said if any country continues to oppose the embargo on Russian oil, it will be a reason to say the country is complicit in the crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

The proposals need unanimous approval from EU countries and are likely to be the subject of fierce debate. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they won’t take part in any oil sanctions. They could be granted an exemption.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary’s foreign minister says the country won’t support a European Union proposal for banning oil imports from Russia in a move that could derail the bloc’s efforts to apply united pressure against Moscow over its war in Ukraine.

In a video on social media, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Wednesday that Hungary’s energy supply “would be completely destroyed” by an EU embargo of Russian oil, which he said would make it “impossible for Hungary to obtain the oil necessary for the functioning of the Hungarian economy.”

Szijjarto’s statement came as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed that EU member nations phase out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year as part of a sixth package of sanctions against Russia.

The proposals must be unanimously approved to take effect, and reluctance by governments in Hungary and Slovakia to support sanctions against Russian fossil fuels has placed roadblocks before a united EU response.

Szijjarto said Hungary would only support the sixth round of sanctions if oil imports were exempted.

___

LONDON — Britain announced a further raft of sanctions against Russia, banning the country from doing business with management consultants, accounting and PR firms in the U.K.

The British government also imposed asset freezes and travel bans on journalists working for state-owned media and other broadcast organizations the U.K. accuses of spreading propaganda.

The sanctioned individuals include three journalists embedded with Russian forces in Ukraine: Evgeny Poddubny, Alexander Kots and Dmitry Steshin.

The British government said the new sanctions would mean social media, internet services and app stores must take action to block content from two of Russia’s major sources of alleged disinformation, RT and Sputnik. Both have been pulled from British airwaves.

Tech and Digital Economy Minister Chris Philp said RT and Sputnik “have churned out dangerous nonsense dressed up as serious news to justify Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.”

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Russian President Vladimir Putin has “completely miscalculated with his brutal war of aggression against Ukraine” because it has led NATO to strengthen its eastern flank, resulted in comprehensive sanctions against Russia, and prompted large-scale military support for the Ukrainian side.

Scholz said Wednesday that Germany is currently considering supplying Ukraine with howitzers, in addition to Gepard anti-aircraft guns and other equipment the government has already agreed to send.

He spoke to reporters in Meseberg, near Berlin, alongside German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, who announced plans to require that Russians who are subject to sanctions have to disclose their assets in Germany or risk fines.

Economy Minister Robert Habeck said the government is also planning to make it easier for Russians fleeing their home country to find work in Germany.

“We can really use them,” he said, but added that there would be security checks to ensure that “we don’t bring a lot of spies over here.” ___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria’s parliament has approved providing additional aid to war-torn Ukraine following a debate that had rattled the governing coalition.

The proposal, introduced by the centrist party of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, was supported by 200 legislators. Sixteen were against, one abstained, while 23 lawmakers were not present.

The vote took place after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sent a letter to the parliament in Sofia. Instead of weapons deliveries, he reportedly asked for damaged Ukrainian military equipment to be repaired at Bulgarian plants and then sent back.

While three of the parties in the four-party ruling coalition had been in favor of sending weapons and ammunition to Ukraine, the fourth party, the pro-Russian Socialists, threatened to quit the coalition if such aid were approved.

The decision also includes Bulgarian assistance for the export of Ukrainian grain via Bulgaria’s Black Sea ports, and Bulgaria importing electricity from Ukraine.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace reaffirmed his country’s strong support for Finland and Sweden potentially joining NATO.

Finland and Sweden are expected to announce next week whether to seek membership of the 30-nation alliance.

“I cannot conceive that we would not come to support,” Wallace told reporters. “We will do whatever we need to do.”

Wallace said Finland was “in a pole position” to join NATO and the British Parliament would be able to ratify a Finnish membership “quickly.”

Wallace on Wednesday observed a military exercise in western Finland involving troops from the United Kingdom, Latvia, the United States and Estonia.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says his country could not accept a deal with Moscow that would allow Russian troops to remain in occupied territory.

Speaking to participants in the Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces had halted the Russian offensive in what he described as the first stage of the conflict.

In the second stage, he said, Ukraine would expel Russian troops from its territory and in the third, would move to fully restore its territorial integrity.

Zelenskyy said he would not accept a cease-fire deal that would allow Russian forces to remain in their current positions. “We will not accept a frozen conflict,” the president said without giving further details.

Zelensky emphasized that Russian President Vladimir Putin must agree to meet him to negotiate any deal to end the fighting.

He said it was important to continue peace talks but noted that “until the Russian president signs it or makes an official statement, I don’t see the point in such agreements.”

___

LVIV, Ukraine — New satellite images analyzed by The Associated Press suggest fighting may be ongoing at a besieged steel plant in Mariupol.

The Kremlin is denying that Russian forces are trying to storm the Azovstal plant, the last remaining holdout of Ukrainian fighters in the port city.

An image shot by Planet Labs PBC at dawn Wednesday showed black smoke rising at one side of the plant near a canal. Buildings at the plant, including one under which hundreds of fighters and civilians are likely hiding, showed large, gaping holes in the roof. Debris littered the grounds.

Meanwhile, another satellite photo showed that a recent Russian missile attack tore a hole in a key bridge near Odesa.

Russia has attacked the bridge on three occasions. Though it is still standing, a chunk of the bridge is missing toward its south end, the image shows.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s Interior Ministry says a road crash in the western Rivne region has killed 26 people and injured 12 more. The collision involved a bus, a van and a fuel truck, the ministry said. The bus had been headed to Poland, which has been a key destination for Ukrainian refugees.

According to a ministry statement, the accident occurred because the van “performed a maneuver to overtake another vehicle, and drove into the oncoming lane, where it collided with a fuel truck.”

It wasn’t immediately clear how a Poland-bound bus with 34 passengers on board became part of the accident.

___ MOSCOW — The Kremlin has rejected media reports that President Vladimir Putin might formally declare war on Ukraine on May 9, when Russia celebrates the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, and announce a broad mobilization.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the reports as “untrue” and “nonsense” at a daily conference call with reporters.

Western media reported earlier this month, citing U.K. and U.S. officials, that Putin might pivot from a “special military operation” to an all-out war with Ukraine, which would allow him to introduce martial law and mobilize reservists.

The reports said Putin could announce the changes during Victory Day celebrations on May 9, Russia’s most important holiday. ___

MOSCOW — The Russian defense minister has warned that Moscow will see any Western transports carrying weapons into Ukraine as legitimate targets.

Sergei Shoigu’s statement Wednesday comes as the U.S. and other Western allies have increased shipments of weapons to Ukraine. Speaking at a meeting with top military officials, Shoigu denounced the West for “stuffing Ukraine with weapons.”

“Any NATO transports carrying weapons or resources for the Ukrainian military that arrives in the country’s territory will be seen by us as a legitimate target to be destroyed,” he said.

The Russian military has repeatedly reported strikes on Ukrainian depots containing Western weapons. Striking Western transports delivering them would mark a significant escalation in the conflict.

___

MOSCOW — Belarus has announced snap military exercises amid the Russian war in Ukraine, while insisting it would not threaten any neighbors.

The Belarusian Defense Ministry said the exercises that began Wednesday would be used to assess the readiness and capability of the country’s armed forces, and the military’s ability to operate on “unknown terrain in a rapidly changing situation.”

The ministry did not say how many troops are involved in the exercises but noted that their number would be gradually increased.

It said the maneuvers “do not threaten the European community in general and any neighboring countries in particular.”

Belarus allowed its ally Russia to use its territory as a staging ground before Moscow launched its military action in Ukraine on Feb. 24.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian officials say evacuations from the besieged port of Mariupol will continue on Wednesday.

Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said evacuations from Mariupol and three other locations to Zaporizhzhia, a city in southeast Ukraine, would take place “if the security situation permits.”

The governor of the Donetsk region, Pavlo Kyrylenko, confirmed that evacuation buses had already left Mariupol and would stop at three other locations to pick up more passengers.

Kyrylenko said the effort is supported by the United Nations and the International Red Cross.

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union plans to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow, in its next round of measures against Russia, according to several EU diplomats.

The three people with direct knowledge of the discussions were not authorized to speak publicly as negotiations on the sixth EU package of sanctions between the 27-nation bloc’s ambassadors were ongoing Wednesday.

Kirill is a longtime ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and has justified his country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Kirill has also echoed Putin’s unfounded claims that Ukraine was engaged in the “extermination” of Russian loyalists in Donbas, the breakaway eastern region of Ukraine held since 2014 by Russian-backed separatist groups.

If the sanctions proposed by the EU’s executive arm are approved by EU member countries, Kirill would be added to the EU’s updated list of individuals facing travel bans and a freeze of assets.

A total of 1,093 individuals, including Putin and oligarchs, as well as 80 entities, are already subject to the punishing measures.

— Reported by Samuel Petrequin

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union’s chief executive is proposing that the bloc ban oil imports from Russia over its war on Ukraine, and target the country’s biggest bank and major broadcasters in a new round of sanctions.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told EU lawmakers Wednesday that the sanctions should involve “a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined.”

She says the aim is to “make sure that we phase out Russian oil in an orderly fashion, in a way that allows us and our partners to secure alternative supply routes and minimizes the impact on global markets.”

The sanctions proposals are to be debated by the 27 EU member countries. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they would not take part. The two are landlocked and heavily dependent on Russia for their energy supplies.

Banks are also in the EU executive arm’s sights, notably the giant Sberbank. Von der Leyen says the aim is to “de-SWIFT Sberbank,” as well as two other banks. SWIFT is the major global system for financial transfers.

Von der Leyen says those alleged to be spreading disinformation about the war in Ukraine should be targeted, notably three big Russian state-owned broadcasters. She did not identify any of the outlets.

Eds: UPDATES: Updates with no civilians reported evacuated from Azovstal on Wednesday. With AP Photos. AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220504ei540099d


Russia: Hungary and Slovakia raise objections to EU’s plans for oil embargo
339 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
EC head announced oil embargo six months from now

Slovakia wants three-year transition, Hungary permanent exception

Disagreements on matter are unsurprising given differences in dependence on Russian energy

Hungary and Slovakia raised objections to EU's plans for an oil embargo. EC head Ursula von der Leyen announced a total oil embargo against Russia six months from now and an embargo on refined petroleum products as of end-2022, but it seems agreement has not been reached yet. Reuters quoted an unnamed EU official that Hungary and Slovakia will be granted an exception and allowed to import Russian oil until the end of 2023. Still, Hungarian foreign minister Peter Szijjarto said that Budapest will not support EU's sixth sanction package against Russia in its current form as it would destroy the country's energy supply. This contradicts media reports from the last several days that Hungary dropped opposition to the oil embargo after Germany and Austria agreed to it. Budapest may back the embargo if it is granted an exemption for oil transported through the Druzhba pipeline, Szijarto said. A possible alternative for Hungary would be to buy oil from Kazakhstan, but the new sanction package does not allow for such development as the oil should also be transported through the Druzhba pipeline through Russia.

At the same time, Slovakia said that it wants a three-year transition for EU's ban on Russian oil. The country's EconMin Richard Sulik said that other EU countries agreed to a transition period, but there is still no consensus on its length. Sulik urged not to associate Bratislava with Budapest at this point as the latter demands permanent exclusion.

Russia delivers about 25% of oil supplies to the EU, but the share differs widely among individual countries. Whereas Belgium, for instance, imports 8% of its oil supply from Russia, Hungary imports 65% and Slovakia 100%. Therefore, the disagreements on the matter within the bloc are hardly surprising.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220505ei5400011


Czechs join Slovakia and Hungary in demanding exemption from EU embargo on Russian oil
752 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 05:11 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Czechia, Slovakia and Hungary appear to have won a carve-out from planned EU sanctions against exports of Russian oil because of their continuing heavy dependence on Russian supplies. Hungary had threatened to veto the sanctions unless it got its way and has still not fully signed up to the plans.

On May 4, Reuters reported that Czechia joined Slovakia and Hungary and is also seeking an exemption period to the EU embargo on Russian oil. It is reported that they will be allowed to buy Russian oil exports until the end of 2023, while other states have to cease crude deliveries in six months.

Slovakia is dependent on Russia for virtually all its needs, while Hungary is around 60% dependent and Czechia 30%. The countries' refineries are adapted to use high-sulphur Russian crude and processing of different types of oil for them is not immediately possible.

The EU will sanction all Russian oil imports, both crude and refined and both oil delivered by ship and pipeline, but the ban will be “phased in in an orderly way,” EU President Ursula von der Leyen told the European Parliament on May 4. The sanctions will be phased in over the next year with crude deliveries banned in six months and refined productions by the end of the year, von der Leyen said.

"We are ready to support this decision [on sanctions including oil], given the Czech Republic will have some postponement until capacity is increased in oil pipelines which can deliver oil to the Czech Republic," said Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala, as quoted by Reuters, adding that Czechia is trying to get a postponement for two or three years.

Fiala said that Czechia is seeking to increase the capacity of the TAL pipeline (from Italy through Austria to Germany). Fiala will discuss this with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz during his visit to Germany this week.

"The Czech Republic will face a serious problem if an embargo is imposed on imports of Russian oil and products into the EU. Not only drivers will suffer, as fuel will become more expensive again, but also [Czech] industry. The Czech Republic does not have a satisfactory solution for the complete replacement of Russian oil," said analyst Lukas Kovanda, according to iDnes.cz.

Slovakia's Economy Minister Richard Sulik said Slovakia will seek an exemption from any embargo of Russian oil agreed by the EU countries, and will request a longer transition period for oil transported by pipeline.

Slovakia receives almost all of its imported crude from Russia via the Druzba pipeline. "If it comes to an approved embargo of Russian oil as part of a further package of sanctions against Russia, then Slovakia will request an exemption," the Slovak economy ministry said to Reuters.

Slovakia's Prime Minister Eduard Heger told the BBC that the country isn't ready to give up supplies of Russian energy commodities at the moment, but it's doing everything it can to become less dependent on Russian gas.

According to him, the Slovak government is doing everything possible to disconnect Slovakia from Russian gas and oil as soon as possible. Together with Poland the country is working on a Slovak-Polish gas pipeline which is technically almost complete.

An alternative to Russian gas could be liquefied natural gas, Heger said. "We could transport it via infrastructure to Slovakia. However, we are landlocked, which is why we are such strong advocates of unity and solidarity," he was quoted by the Slovak News Agency as saying.

The Slovak government has so far refused to give a straight answer to speculation earlier last week that the state-owned energy company SPP has agreed to open a ruble account with Russia's Gazprombank. It could then put money for Russian gas in euros into its euro account and this could be converted by the bank into rubles in its ruble account before being transferred to Gazprom. This would in effect be paying for Russian gas in rubles, circumventing EU sanctions.

Heger only told the BBC that "[for gas] we will pay in euros".

The European Commission has said that payment should be made in euros, the transaction should be declared complete, and then it is up to the Russian side to convert the payment into euros.

The Slovak government has a few weeks to clarify its approach as its next payment for Russian gas is not due until May 20.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020220505ei55000b5


Russia’s sixth sanction package opens EU’s Pandora’s Box]]
Aneta Zachová, Krassen Nikolov, Michal Hudec, Radovan Geist, Vlagyiszlav Makszimov
1003 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 06:52 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Budapest and Bratislava are unhappy with the European Commission’s proposal to ban Russian black gold despite being given extra time to phase it out, while Sofia and Prague have jumped on the bandwagon and are now asking for special treatment. 

Moreover, sources said Greece and Cyprus raised objections to another proposal to ban all shipping companies that are EU-owned or have European interests from transferring Russian oil into Europe or elsewhere in the world.

Under the Commission’s proposal that would see a “complete ban on all Russian oil” and refined petroleum products within the next six months, Hungary and Slovakia would be allowed to continue buying from Moscow until the end of 2023 under existing contracts.

An EU diplomat told EURACTIV on condition of anonymity that for Europe, the big test is now, considering that it touches upon the core of sanctions against Moscow. 

“Politically, Europe cannot afford not adopting the sixth package,” the diplomat said, adding, however, that the equation will not be easy to solve. 

In an interview with EURACTIV in late February, the Russian ambassador to the EU, Vladimir Chizhov, said energy is an area where the level of interdependence between Russia and the EU is high.

“We understand that any decisions taken in this area are taken unanimously,  which indicates that there is a certain degree of discipline. Whether this reflects all the voluntary positions of any individual country, this remains to be seen.”

Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó was quick to oppose the plan, arguing that it would “completely destroy” the foundations of Hungary’s energy supply.

“It is not a question of lack of political will, it is not a question of intent, it is not a question of timespan, it is quite simply a physical, geographical and infrastructural reality,” Telex reported[https://telex.hu/kulfold/2022/05/04/szijjarto-europai-unio-orosz-olajembargo-szankcio-buntetocsomag] him saying.

The Hungarian foreign minister said that for Hungary to support the measures, oil transported through pipelines (rather than tankers) should be exempted from the embargo.

Bratislava would back an embargo on Russian oil, said Economy Minister Richard Sulik, noting that it would need a longer transition period of three years instead of the one year – until the end of 2023 – proposed by the European Commission.

Sulik argues that Slovakia, like Hungary and Czechia, is in a difficult position. As a land-locked country, it cannot import oil by sea tankers and is reliant on pipelines, he added. For example, the main pipeline – Druzhba – transports Russian oil.

Sulik cites other issues, however. Slovakia could import oil from the south via the Adria oil pipeline, yet its capacity remains limited. Slovak oil reservoirs are in eastern Slovakia and cannot be filled with oil from Adria because Slovak pipelines are not technically prepared for a reversed flow.

MOL Group, the Hungarian fossil fuel giant that operates[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/the-fossil-fuel-companies-profiting-from-europes-oil-trade-with-russia/] all the oil refineries in both countries and uses Russian oil, previously said it would need significant investment and time to transition. EURACTIV has reached out for comments to the MOL Group but had not received a reply by the time of publication.

The Czech Republic, for its part, is only ready to support the proposed ban on Russian oil imports if it also gets a postponement of two to three years until the oil pipeline capacity is increased.

“We are supporting the strictest possible sanctions against Russia. Nothing has changed in our attitude. However, we have been holding the position since the start that the sanctions must not harm Czech citizens more than Russia,” Prime Minister Petr Fiala has said.

Bulgaria, however, wants to be excluded[https://euractiv.bg/section/%d0%bf%d0%be%d0%bb%d0%b8%d1%82%d0%b8%d0%ba%d0%b0/news/%d0%b1%d1%8a%d0%bb%d0%b3%d0%b0%d1%80%d0%b8%d1%8f-%d1%89%d0%b5-%d0%bf%d0%be%d0%b8%d1%81%d0%ba%d0%b0-%d0%b4%d0%b0-%d0%b1%d1%8a%d0%b4%d0%b5-%d0%b8%d0%b7%d0%ba%d0%bb%d1%8e%d1%87%d0%b5%d0%bd%d0%b0-%d0%be/] from the EU oil embargo against Russia altogether.

“Bulgaria can continue without Russian oil, but this would significantly increase the cost of fuel. From this point of view, if the European Commission provides for exceptions, we would like to take advantage of these exceptions, as this is in the best interests of Bulgarian consumers, Bulgarian carriers and the Bulgarian people as a whole,” said Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Asen Vassilev.

“If there is a firm European position “we stop everything for everyone” – it is one thing. But if there are exceptions, we will use our right to use the same exception,” Vassilev told the weekly “Capital”.

In Bulgaria, the Russian company Lukoil owns the largest oil refinery in the Balkans.

Even if Bulgaria manages to fully compensate for the supply of oil products from other sources, the Bulgarian government will face serious social discontent in Burgas if the refinery stops operating.

Meanwhile, the state’s representative at the refinery, Krassimir Parvanov, warned that the Lukoil Neftochim refinery could shut down if the EU imposed a full embargo on Russian oil and oil products imports.

Parvanov told the Bulgarian news site Mediapool that the refinery used between 50% and 60% of Russian Urals oil, but it cannot work only with Arab oil, it also needs quantities of Russian oil.

Burgas is the largest employer in the region, and Lukoil Bulgaria is the second largest company in the national economy, with an annual turnover of €1.6- 3 billion

Greece, Cyprus also unhappy

Although it was not presented by the Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen at her speech in the EU House, EURACTIV has learned a proposal to ban all shipping companies EU-owned or with European interests from transferring Russian oil into Europe or elsewhere in the world is still on the table. 

An EU source told EURACTIV that this proposal aims to reduce the possibility of a deal for cheap oil transferred from Russia to China to counterbalance the EU ban considering that EU shipping companies are transferring it. 

The same source added that Athens and Nicosia had reacted strongly to this proposal, as it deals a severe blow to its shipping industries. 

(Vlagyiszlav Makszimov | EURACTIV.com[http://euractiv.com/] with Telex, Krassen Nikolov | EURACTIV.bg, Michal Hudec, Radovan Geist | EURACTIV.sk[http://euractiv.sk/], Aneta Zachová | EURACTIV.cz –[http://euractiv.cz/]Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220505ei550000d


Schedules, Summaries
MORNING NEWS HIGHLIGHTS - Thursday, May 5 - 9 a.m.
726 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 07:00 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
TASR brings a quick morning overview of the most important events seen in Slovakia on the previous day (Wednesday, May 4):

BRATISLAVA - Parliament on Wednesday turned down the request by the prosecutor's office to enable potential prosecution of Smer-SD leader Robert Fico in custody.

Out of the present 150 lawmakers, 74 voted for the proposal, 49 were against, 19 abstained and eight didn't vote.

In favour of enabling the prosecution of Fico in custody were all lawmakers of coalition's SaS, For the People and OLaNO, save for Romana Tabak who didn't cast any vote and Katarina Hatrakova (both OLaNO) who abstained. Choosing to abstain were also all lawmakers of coalition We Are Family. Voting against the proposal were members of Smer-SD and independents affiliated with non-parliamentary Voice-SD. Independents affiliated with LSNS didn't vote.

BRATISLAVA - Smer-SD leader Robert Fico thanked lawmakers who didn't support the request by prosecutor's office to enable his prosecution in police custody on Wednesday.

Fico maintains that he is the target of a political witch hunt.

"I thank every lawmaker who supported me and respect everyone who held a different opinion," said Fico.

BRATISLAVA - OLaNO caucus chair Michal Sipos will file a proposal to expel MPs Katarina Hatrakova and Romana Tabak from the party caucus.

Sipos announced this at a press conference on Wednesday, after Parliament rejected a proposal to enable prosecution of MP Robert Fico (Smer-SD) in custody. Hatrakova chose to abstain and Tabak didn't vote.

"Today, MPs Katarina Hatrakova and Romana Tabak, two out of 50 OLaNO lawmakers, betrayed the values of the party and the Manifesto that they signed. By preventing justice from being served, they betrayed the majority of OLaNO voters too," claimed Sipos.

BRATISLAVA - The Slovak Bar Association, in line with the law, has suspended lawyer Marek P. (name abbreviated due to legal reasons), who's been remanded in custody by the Supreme Court.

The lawyer was detained and charged under the National Crime Agency's Operation Twilight in April, along with Smer-SD head Robert Fico and ex-interior minister Robert Kalinak. The Specialised Criminal Court first opted not to remand him in custody, releasing him from detention, but the Supreme Court overturned this decision at an appeal hearing this week.

BRATISLAVA - General Daniel Zmeko remains in the post of the Slovak Armed Forces as President Zuzana Caputova reappointed him for another four years on Wednesday.

The head of state also promoted Deputy Chief of the Slovak Armed Forces' General Staff Peter Babiar, and the commander of the air force, Robert Toth, to the rank of major general. She also appointed Martin Remes, commander of the crisis management strategic centre, to the rank of brigadier general.

BRATISLAVA - Slovakia is asking the European Union for a three-year exemption from the embargo on Russian oil imports, Economy Minister Richard Sulik (Freedom and Solidarity/SaS) stated following the Government meeting on Wednesday, refusing to link Slovakia's position with that of the Hungarian government which rejects the embargo and demands a permanent exemption.

"It isn't true that we won't join the sanctions against Russia," said Sulik, adding that, however, Slovakia is in a specific position together with Hungary and the Czech Republic as other countries have the opportunity to change oil suppliers immediately. Only 10-20 percent of Russian oil is supplied to Europe by pipeline, the rest is imported by ship. "We agree with this sanction but say that we'll need a transitional period until we adapt to the new situation," noted Sulik.

BRATISLAVA - Pensioners will receive their 13th pensions in full earlier this year - in July, according to an amendment to the law on 13th pensions submitted by coalition MPs Jozef Lukac and Milos Svrcek (both We Are Family) and approved by Parliament on Wednesday.

The aim of the amendment is to help pensioners deal with the current increase in financial costs caused by extreme price growth.

BRATISLAVA - Slovakia's coronavirus update for Tuesday, May 3, according to the National Health Information Centre's (NCZI) special website covid-19.nczisk.sk:

NEW POSITIVE PCR TESTS: 746

Daily PCR tests: 4,240

NEW POSITIVE ANTIGEN TESTS: 90

Daily antigen tests: 3,148

NEW DEATHS: 5

Deaths in total: 19,943

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220505ei550005l


2ND LEAD Hungary, Slovakia and Czechs to get more time to ban Russian oil By Doris Pundy and Ciarán Sunderland, dpa
383 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 10:20 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are to have more time to ban Russian oil imports in new European Commission proposals for an embargo, diplomatic sources have told dpa.

Hungary and Slovakia are to get until the end of 2024 to phase out Russian oil imports via pipelines. The Czech Republic is to have until the end of June 2024 to comply with the embargo, unless a new pipeline is finished sooner.

The extended deadlines for the three central European countries are included in the latest commission draft for a sixth package of sanctions on Russia submitted to representatives of the 27 EU member states to scrutinize in Brussels on Friday.

The European Union is to phase out Russian crude oil within six months, and refined products by the end of the year, under original commission plans which included an exemption for Hungary and Slovakia until the end of 2023.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are heavily dependent on Russian oil imports and struggled to secure alternative oil supplies ahead of the proposed ban due to a lack of sea access.

Speaking to a Hungarian radio station on Friday morning, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called the initial sanction proposal "an atom bomb being dropped on the Hungarian economy."

Orbán insisted that his country's initial 2023 deadline was too short to make sure Hungary would receive enough oil and avoid soaring prices.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said it is "difficult" yet achievable to find alternative supplies for the landlocked countries and to guarantee supply security.

Speaking at a media event in Frankfurt, von der Leyen said the ongoing talks in Brussels are "moving in the right direction."

"I am confident that we will also get this [sanctions] package on track. If it takes one day longer, then it takes one day longer," von der Leyen said, commenting on the timeline of the negotiations.

Talks in Brussels will continue on Friday afternoon, diplomats told dpa, aiming to agree on a new sanctions by the weekend at the latest.

All 27 EU member states need to agree for new Russia sanctions to come into force.

# Notebook

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220506ei56003h1


Slovakia This Week - May 6, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 6 日, 4216 字, (英文)
Slovak state budget´s deficit reaches €1.38bn in AprilThe Slovak state budget posted a deficit of €1.384bn at the end of April, up by €236mn month-on-month and down by €1.243bn year-on-year, the finance ministry reported.

world
Hungary and Slovakia given another two years to ban Russian oil
Bruno Waterfield, Brussels
772 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 22:34 GMT
thetimes.co.uk
TIMEUK
英文
© Times Newspapers Limited 2022
The European Union will extend the deadline for Hungary and Slovakia to stop importing Russian oil by two years to address deep divisions over energy sanctions against the Putin regime.

Both landlocked central European countries are highly dependent on the Druzhba oil pipeline from Russian Siberia and need extra time to reorganise petrol and diesel production.

EU proposals envisage a phased

ban on Russian crude oil imports[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/eu-struggling-to-win-support-for-russian-oil-ban-9t8xvsv5f]

within six months, but the plan has hit the geopolitical reality of close links between central Europe and Russia dating to the Soviet era.

New proposals would give Budapest and Bratislava until the end of 2024 to adjust but both countries are demanding a longer transition period.

The compromise follows a veto threat by Hungary after

Viktor Orban[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/victor-orban?page=1]

, the country’s prime minister, said the European Commission had crossed a “red line” by proposing sanctions that would be like “dropping a nuclear bomb on the Hungarian economy”.

“With this move, the commission has disrupted hard-established European unity, and in war, this has serious consequences,” he told Hungary’s state broadcaster, Kossuth Radio.

“From the first moment we made clear that there will be a red line, that is the

energy embargo[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/the-times-view-on-the-eus-ban-on-russian-oil-energy-embargo-kk9pptghl]

, they [the EU] have crossed this red line.”

He added: “The transformation of Hungary’s energy transmission and supply system could be completed in five years.”

Josep Borrell, the EU’s foreign affairs chief, said he understood Hungary’s position. “ If I were in their shoes I would say, ‘Look I have a problem.’ It is a matter of time and it is a matter of money. We cannot put on the table proposals that do not fit with reality,” he said.

“It’s not because Hungary is closer to Moscow. Hungary is a landlocked country. There is no other pipe bringing oil to Hungary but the one coming from Russia and going directly to their refinery, which is created for the physical characteristics of the Russian oil.”

Hungary is dependent on the Druzhba pipeline and Russian oil for up to two thirds of its fuel needs, a figure that rises to 96 per cent for Slovakia.

The Czech Republic is expected to take up the offer of an exemption from the ban until June 2024 unless alternative supplies can be found from the German TAL pipeline, which is running at full capacity.

The concession is significant and means that more than 250,000 barrels of oil a day will continue to flow down the

Druzhba oil pipeline[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/what-will-the-ban-on-oil-mean-for-the-eu-and-russia-z0v9fckfg]

to central Europe for two years after the rest of the EU has banned the trade.

Some countries are unhappy over the proposed delay and demands from Hungary for funding. “It pushes the envelope a little too far,” said a senior EU diplomat.

Diplomatic sources said that the EU could additionally postpone shipping restrictions, opposed by Greece, Cyprus and Malta, that would ban European tankers from carrying Russian crude oil anywhere in the world.

The Greek opposition has angered other countries because a maritime exemption would undermine the sanctions and allow EU tankers to help divert Russian oil from

Europe[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/europe]

to India and China.

“There is a lot of understanding for Hungary and Slovakia but Greece is angering many capitals by demanding that its maritime sector could carry on shipping Russian oil to Chinese and Indian ports when Europe has stopped buying it,” a diplomat said.

Concessions would allow Greek, Cypriot or Maltese carriers to ship Russian oil for an extra three months into spring next year.

Extensive commission redrafting of the oil ban proposals have delayed

EU[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/european-union]

negotiations, which are expected to run through the weekend. “It is a mess,” said the senior source.

Ursula von der Leyen, the German European Commission president, expressed confidence that the sanction would be agreed by next week. “I am confident that we will get this package on track — if it takes a day longer, it takes a day longer — but we are moving in the right direction,” she told a conference hosted by the

Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung

newspaper.

Hungary, with wider eastern European support, is opposed to proposals to place

Patriarch Kirill[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/putins-priest-patriarch-kirill-must-not-be-spared-sanctions-df577mc0r]

, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, on the EU’s asset freeze and travel ban blacklist. “We will not allow church leaders to be put on a sanctions list,” Orban said.

The “Sanctionistas” bloc of Poland and the Baltic States is pushing to add

Alina Kabaeva[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/us-holds-off-sanctions-against-alina-kabaeva-over-fears-of-provoking-president-putin-wrf7pwpl7]

, a former gymnast who is

President Putin[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/vladimir-putin]

’s alleged mistress, and thought to be mother of four of his children, to the blacklist.

News UK & Ireland Limited

文件 TIMEUK0020220506ei560018i


News; Domestic
Ukraine On Heightened Alert Ahead Of Russia's Victory Day; Fighting Rages At Mariupol Plant Amid New Rescue Efforts; Americans Reveal Why They're Fighting Alongside Ukrainians; Ex-Defense Secretary: Trump Wanted To Bomb Drug Labs In Mexico; CDC: Investigating 100+ Cases Of Severe, Unexplained Hepatitis In Kids. Aired 6-7p ET
Jake Tapper, Pamela Brown, Nick Paton Walsh, Matthew Chance, Oren Liebermann, Isa Soares, Kaitlan Collins, Brian Todd, Jonathan Martin, Alex Burn, Leana Wen
7317 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
CNN: The Situation Room
CNNTSR
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[18:00:00]

JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm going to be talking to Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Mississippi Governor Tate Reeves, his state, of course, is at the center of that Supreme Court draft opinion and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Geenfield, it's Sunday morning and 9:00 A.M. at noon.

Follow me on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and the TikTok @jaketapper. You can tweet the show @theleadcnn. Listen to our podcast.

Our coverage continues now with Pamela Brown, who's right next door in a place I like to call THE SITUATION ROOM.

PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now, breaking news, war-ravaged Ukraine is now on heightened alert. Officials are issuing new warnings that Russia may increase its attack on Monday and the Putin regime - it's annual Victory Day celebration.

Also breaking, fighting rages on in the besieged city of Mariupol amid new rescue efforts that freed at least 50 civilians. President Zelenskyy is calling the ongoing Russian blockade of the city a form of torture that's left innocent people starving.

Our correspondents are standing by in the war zone in Moscow and at the Pentagon, for CNN's live coverage of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

And welcome to our viewers in the United States and around the world. Wolf Blitzer is off today. I'm Pamela Brown, and you are in THE SITUATION ROOM.

This hour, there's growing anxiety in Ukraine that Kremlin forces are on the brink of unleashing a brutal new bombardment timed to coincide with Russia's Victory Day holiday.

Let's go right to Ukraine and CNN International Security Editor Nick Paton Walsh. Nick, the mayor of Kyiv just issued an urgent plea for residents of the capital city to be on alert.

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR: Absolutely. So imminent, they feel the potential for renewed intensity of missile strikes, that the mayor Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, is saying people should try and stay indoors, and certainly if they hear air raid sirens, pay special attention and seek covered.

Vitali Klitschko saying there is a concern that on the 8th and 9th of May, there may be escalation by Russia around or ahead of the Victory Day parades there, plenty (ph) of calling.

Still, though, now tension building as Russia continues to relentlessly bombard the steel plant in the besieged and essentially conquered city of Mariupol on the south coast.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WALSH (voice over): Escorted by armor, curtains closed, inside are said to be some of the latest civilians to evacuate the unbridled hell of Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol. Yet these are Russian troops escorting them out, not the United Nations who helped evacuate earlier in the week. Ukraine soldiers here Friday said one of theirs died and six were injured in an evacuation bid.

And while Ukraine set it began a new operation to get people out from under this, the savagery of Russian bombardments at the factory, the U.N. said Friday a total of 500 people had got out since their efforts began this weekend, many, many more desperate to flee.

Battered and uninhabitable as much of Mariupol is, still ahead of Monday's Victory Day, it appears the city's drama theater, it's basement is packed with children when it was bombed by Russia, killing hundreds, is now being cleared up, excavated.

These satellite images first on CNN showing rubble visible in April, gone in recent days. Vehicles lined up and the ground around the theater cleared to make it more presentable. It's not clear why they are tidying the scene of what many called a war crime.

The warped world of what Russia calls liberation was also on view here in these rare images filmed inside a filtration camp, where Ukrainians are held before being forced to go to Russia, passports taken, sleeping on the floor or in chairs, illness from the cold, all part of the experience of liberation, according to one woman whose father was there.

And this staged visit, evidence of Russia's rush to assimilate what it's clumsily torn off Ukraine. This is Kherson, the first city it captured, and the man in the beard is Denis Pushilin, separatist leader from Donetsk, and the visit suggesting Kherson on the Russian occupation where protests are crushed will also be declared a tin part people's republic soon. It all has the whiff of empire.

Here, he sits discussing transferring food from Kherson to Russia's separatist areas, watermelon and tomatoes. He might call it trade, Ukraine a food heist.

But Moscow is far from having its way and the costs are heavy.

[18:05:00] These images CNN has confirmed were filmed in a graveyard in Ryazan, the flags over the Russian paratroop division, the elite, and there are many just in this one city. These are the dead behind the propaganda with so much rubble in Russia's tiny victories.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WALSH (on camera): Now, Pamela, well, of course we are looking at incremental advances by Russia in territory here inside of Ukraine. There are concerns certainly that ahead of Monday's May the 9th victory parades, where Russia traditionally celebrates its victory over Nazis, curious that they would choose to revive that and the ludicrous notion of the ideology supporting their invasion of Ukraine, that there may be some bid by Russia to take extra territory or a final push in the days ahead, specifically also in the east, Severodonetsk, one of the towns there is concerned that maybe that might be the focus of a renewed Russian effort.

But still Ukraine pushing back on many occasions, but deep anxiety for the 72 hours ahead around that victory parade. Pamela?

BROWN: Understandably. Nick Paton Walsh, thank you.

And now let's over to Russia to Moscow, where the Kremlin is sharing new details about its plans for Victory Day, what we were just talking about. We want to remind you that Russia has strict new laws in place on the reporting of the Ukraine conflict, prohibiting the broadcast of information the government considers to be false.

Our Senior International Correspondent Matthew Chance joins us live from Moscow. Matthew, what is the Kremlin saying ahead of this key holiday?

MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, there's been some question, Pam, about whether the Victory Day commemorations here in Moscow and elsewhere in Russia might be overshadowed by the fact there is that really ugly military campaign underway across the border in Ukraine. Russia calls it special military operation.

The Kremlin has gone to some lengths today to insist that it won't by overshadowed, the commemorations won't to be have overshadowed by anything that takes place inside Ukraine. They're calling it a sacred holiday for millions of people, around -- not just Russia, but around the former Soviet Union, whose ancestors, whose relatives has let themselves actually engaged in the defeat of Nazi Germany in the 1940s.

But at the forefront of people's minds, there are going to be a lot of concerns about what's taking place in Ukraine, so it won't just be a sort of regular display of Russian military power and forces that it is every year. It's going to have that very potent, poignant backdrop.

Additionally, it may be an opportunity, and the Kremlin has pushed back on this, but it may be an opportunity for Vladimir Putin to make some sort of important pronouncement about his special military operation. There's speculation it could be an opportunity for him to make a formal declaration of war against Ukraine, speculation he could announce a mobilization of Russian forces that will enable him to get more people into the forces, into the military and to deploy them in more strength inside Ukraine. Again, that's been pushed back on by the Kremlin.

But, Pam, in the past the Kremlin has said it's going to do one thing and then does something entirely different. And so no one really is ruling anything out at this stage.

BROWN: Matthew Chance, thank you.

And tonight, we are learning more about U.S. assistance to the Ukraine military. Sources tell CNN that the United States shared intelligence that helped Ukraine sink a prized Russian warship in the Black Sea.

NN Pentagon Correspondent Oren Leibermann has more on that. Oren, this is clearly a sensitive issue for the Pentagon. What can you tell us?

OREN LEIBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: It very much is a sensitive issue, as has pretty much all of the intelligence sharing between the U.S. and Ukraine, this pipeline going back and forth between the two.

And it's not just the Pentagon, it's the entire Biden administration. They have been very careful when it comes to this issue, not only about the intelligence that's shared, but what's said about the intelligence that's shared.

Sources tell CNN, sources familiar with this situation, that back in mid-April, the Ukrainian thought they had the Moskva, they knew where it was in the Black Sea, but they couldn't do it on their own. They asked the U.S. for confirmation, according to these sources, and these sources says, yes, the U.S. confirmed that it wasn't fact the Moskva they were looking at.

It was then after that that the Ukraine took a shot at the flagship of Russia's Black Sea Fleet with two Neptune missiles, eventually sinking it as the Russians tried to tow it back to port.

The Pentagon has pushed back on any notion or suggestion that it was involved in a decision to strike the Moskva, or that it had provided what the Pentagon was calling the specific targeting information. Here's Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOHN KIRBY, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: We did not provide specific targeting information about the Moskva to the Ukrainians. We weren't involved in their decision to conduct that strike, and we certainly weren't involved in the actual execution of that strike.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

[18:10:05]

LEIBERMANN: The Pentagon went on to point out that there are other countries providing information and intelligence to the Ukrainian as well and that the Ukrainians have their own ability to gather intelligence. But that seems a way of trying to distance themselves from the story and the risk that come along with this being sort of openly stated by the media as the Russians perhaps are watching. Pamela?

BROWN: All right, Oren Lieberman, thank you very much.

And just ahead in THE SITUATION ROOM, is the U.S. bracing for Vladimir Putin to chart a new course for his war on Ukraine during next week's Victory Day celebration in Moscow? The State Department spokesperson, Ned Price, is standing by to join me, up next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:15:00]

BROWN: More now to the breaking news, a senior Ukrainian official saying tonight, that Russia wants to seize key city in the eastern Ukraine to declare a, quote, grand victory. This comes ahead of Monday's annual Russian celebration marking the Soviet victory over the Nazis in World War II.

And joining us now, State Department Spokesperson, Ned Price. Hi there, Ned. So, what is the U.S. bracing for in the coming days ahead of the Russia's Victory Day?

NED PRICE, STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON: Well, Pamela, we'll have to wait and see what the Russians have in mind but I can tell you what we have in mind. We will be working very closely, speaking with one voice together with our allies and partners, including our allies in Europe, in the G7, in NATO, about what is coming up. It is not only a holiday that is mark in Russian,

V.E. day, Victory in Europe day is something that we mark every year, together with our European partners. This is the day 77 years ago on Sunday when, together with our European partners, we stopped the forces of Nazism, the genocidal forces of totalitarianism and despotism that had swept across Europe, rolled it back.

Once again, we are working with our partners and allies to stop blatant aggression to end this violence and see to it that the brutality that the Russians are inflicting on the Ukrainian people comes to an end.

BROWN: I want to ask you about the latest information we're getting here at CNN. As we know, Ukraine successfully hit the Russian warship, the Moskva, last month, thanks to help from U.S. intelligence. How likely is it that Putin will retaliate against the U.S. directly for its role and intelligence sharing?

PRICE: Pam, we've watching very closely. We've heard a lot of bluster, a lot of propaganda, statements that constitute the hike of irresponsibility, especially coming from a nuclear power. But what we are most concerned about is what we see, not what we hear. And we are going to continue to execute to execute on the strategy we put forward principally because we know that it is a strategy that will allow Ukraine to win. It's a strategy that has two key components when it comes to Ukraine. It is continuing to provide our Ukrainian partners with the security assistance they need to defend themselves.

And just moments ago, we announced that the United States is providing an additional $150 million in security assistance to our Ukrainian partners. That's what we're doing to support Ukraine on the battlefield. We're also at the same time holding Russia to account. And to date, we've enacted together with dozens of countries across four continents a series of financial sanctions, a series of expert controls, precisely what we need to put pressure on Moscow.

So, we're doing two things at once. We're strengthening Ukraine's hand on the battlefield, we are strengthening Ukraine's hand in turn at the negotiating table and we're putting pressure on Moscow to change its approach, to change an approach that heretofore, at least, has not -- a country that has not been willing to engage in diplomacy, not been willing to engage in good-faith dialogue. And that's what we seek to facilitate.

BROWN: Let me just jump in there because you just laid out about what the U.S. is doing. And it's a tricky line to walk. Of course, you've had talked about the concern of escalation with Russia. You just pointed out it's a nuclear power. Where is the line about what the U.S. will and won't do and share with Ukraine, because, for example, if U.S. intelligence is being used by the Ukrainians to kill Russian soldiers and Russian generals, could Russia view the U.S. as a co- combatant?

PRICE: Pamela, we have provided our Ukrainian partner with precisely what they need at this moment. We provided them with billions of dollars in humanitarian support, and economic support, and, to-date, since the invasion, $3.8 billion in security assistance. That's we provided them in terms of funding.

Yes, we are also providing them with intelligence that they need to defend their country, to defend their territorial integrity, their freedom and their democracy. Everything that we're providing our Ukrainian partners in terms of security assistance, in terms of intelligence is to promote their efforts to defend their country against this aggression.

BROWN: I understand that, but is there concern that Russia could retaliate, could view the U.S. as a co-combatant with Ukraine?

PRICE: I think the Russians know that we have been very clear, than any effort to intimidate, to wage aggression against NATO, against any NATO ally would be met with a strong response. But we're going to continue to do what we have found to be effective and more importantly what our Ukrainian partners have found to be effective when it comes to this support for them.

If you take a step back and look at where we are, Vladimir Putin, on February 24th, thought that within 72 hours or so, he would be the de facto leader of Ukraine. He would be in charge a de facto of its government, ruling, controlling its people and the country. [18:20:00]

We are now more than 70 days into this conflict. Russia has lost the battle of Kyiv. Russia has been force to narrow its war aims, now rather than take the country, Russia has been forced to target much of its effort, much of it focus on a single steel plant, in a single city in the eastern part of Ukraine.

And so I think you see the effectiveness of this strategy every day. It is the grit, it is the determination, the tenacity of our Ukrainian partners, using the key enabling force of our security assistance.

BROWN: Yes, the Ukrainians have certainly showed so much perseverance and grit in the face of this. State Department Spokesperson Ned Price, thank you for joining us.

PRICE: Thanks, Pamela.

BROWN: And coming up at THE SITUATION ROOM, we're going to have an inside look at some of the foreign fighters, including Americans battling alongside the Ukrainians against Putin's invasion.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:25:00]

BROWN: We are following breaking news on a heightened state of alert in Ukraine. Tonight, officials are warning that attacks may be escalated attacks on Monday during its annual Victory Day celebration.

Now, let's turn to chilling new accounts of the war from foreigners who have been fighting alongside the Ukrainians, including two Americans. CNN's Isa Soares has our report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ISA SOARES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): For weeks now, these volunteer fighters have been developing a country that is not theirs.

DOC, VOLUNTEER FIGHTER IN UKRAINE: I saw on the news, just like everybody else, the atrocities that the Russians were committing. That's the reason why I came.

SOARES: The two Americans and a Canadian, who we prefer we identify them by their nicknames, tell me that from their experiences with one particular unit, the Ukrainian forces they have been fighting alongside on the frontlines are ill-equipped and cut-off from resources.

RAT, VOLUNTEER FIGHTER IN UKRAINE: Specifically, NATO munitions in terms of anti-tank weapons, as well as artillery, like howitzers, or tanks, or even like MRAP type vehicles, anything like that, it's nowhere on the front.

SOARES: Doc, Rat and Shadow said they have fought near Kyiv and in the east in the Kharkiv region, where Russian troops has strengthened their presence.

RAT: So, they would push here, send troops, massive column on the main road, push them here.

SOARES: This video filmed by them shows the challenging terrain.

RAT: It's just field as far as the eye can see with nothing but open ground and next to zero concealment.

SOARES: A battleground that without the right equipment can be deadly, the former Canadian Armed Forces sergeant tells me.

SHADOW, VOLUNTEER FIGHTER IN UKRAINE: It's a miracle, it's really miracle to be here still alive.

DOC: You basically have to be a tank or artillery or an aircraft right now to fight in the eastern part.

SOARES: So far, the U.S. has approved more than $3 billion in military assistance to Ukraine, including thousands of Javelin, Stinger missiles, and other critical weapons, equipment that these former U.S. marines say they haven't seen.

DOC: The stuff from these packages need to get to the front. They do.

SOARES: So much so, they are being teased about it.

RAT: We have guys coming up to us with Google translates, where are the howitzers? Where is Biden's help? Or where is NATO'S help?

SOARES: Last month, the Pentagon said military gear and equipment was getting to Ukraine, between 24 and 48 hours after it was shipped, but the U.S. was transferring it on Ukrainian hands and not dictating how fast they get it to the frontline or what unit gets them.

These fighters have just one glimpse of one frontline, but they're not alone in thinking that Ukraine's military remains desperately outgunned.

RAT: Both parties, it's one side has nothing and doing everything they can, and then the other side has everything and they're too afraid to do anything with that.

SOARES: Despite the challenges of the battlefield, Doc and Rat are returning to the frontline moved by Ukraine's fighting spirit.

DOC: The Ukrainians are giving it their all, and they're doing it every single day, every single minute, every single hour.

SOARES: Shadow, meanwhile, staying away from the front lines in Lviv after learning he's going to be a father, camaraderie and a common cause as they fight for freedom in a foreign land.

Isa Soares, CNN Lviv, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE) BROWN: And CNN reached out to the Ukrainian Defense Ministry for comment on these claims of the foreign fighters featured in the story, the military aid is not reaching the frontlines in the north east of Ukraine and why. But, so far, we haven't received a response.

And joining me now, the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, William Taylor. Hi, Ambassador.

So, there are disturbing signs that Russia is digging in the south of Ukraine, putting up Russian flags, restoring Soviet monuments. As someone who served as the ambassador to Ukraine, how do you expect Ukrainians to push back on that Russian grip?

WILLIAM TAYLOR, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE: Pam, we've seen the push back in several places. We've seen the military push back around Kyiv. We've seen the Ukrainians push to Russians back to the north, back to Belarus, back into the Russia.

In the northeast, where your report was just describing the fight, I've talked to -- I've got friends in the military, in the Ukrainian military, who are telling me -- told me as recently as three days ago, that those howitzer, those big howitzers, the 155 millimeter howitzers that are in the packages, coming from the United States, are on the frontlines and are already engaging Russians at long distances, exactly as they said is necessary.

[18:30:25]

And your point about the Russians trying to dig in and taking over places in the south, yes, that's what they have done. That's what they did in Donbas, in Donetsk and Luhansk. They put in puppets to govern. And then they forced Ukrainians to take passports, to switch passports into Russian. They forced the Ukrainians and use rubles. They use the Russian currency.

So, this is what they have done in Donbas. This is what they have done in Crimea. This is what they'll try to do in places like Kherson, which is just north of Crimea and just to the west of Donetsk.

So, that is the play book that they used. The Ukrainians are pushing back. The Ukrainians are not going to be able -- the Russians are not going to push Ukraine to do that without large forces, without military forces. And we know that they don't have those forces now.

BROWN: I want to talk about this video address that came out just recently from President Zelenskyy of Ukrainian. And he says, quote, they are working on diplomatic options to save Ukrainian troops in the besieged steel plant in Mariupol. He says influential mediators are involved. So, what would that look like?

TAYLOR: I hope it would be the United Nations. The United Nations and the Red Cross have had some success in getting civilians out of Mariupol, and they have negotiated ceasefires, or at least humanitarian corridors to allow these convoys to get these folks out. So, I'm hoping that the U.N. will continue to have that progress.

BROWN: All right. Former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine William Taylor, thank you.

TAYLOR: Thank you, Pam.

BROWN: And just ahead in THE SITUATION ROOM, the European Union is preparing new sanctions for Vladimir Putin's reputed girlfriend. Who is she? And why does Putin deny the relationships, despite being romantically linked for more than a decade?

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:35:00]

BROWN: More now on the breaking news tonight, President Biden just authorized a new $150 million aid package to Ukraine as it struggled to fight off Russia's unprovoked invasion. CNN Chief White House Correspondent Kaitlan Collins has the details.

So, Kaitlan, another big move from the White House, what do you learning?

KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Pam, this is the package that is to the tune of $150 million that President Biden is authorizing to go to Ukraine. This one includes artillery rounds, these counter artillery rounds, these counter artillery radar systems, jamming equipment, other spare parts that the Ukrainian forces fighting need. Of course, this is something that the White House will work to get to Ukraine quickly as they have been sending those other packages, the last two, $800 million packages that President announced, sending them very quickly

But, Pam, crucially what also comes alongside, the statement from President Biden authorizing this latest package, is he says that now with this announcement, they nearly exhausted the funding that they have from Congress, that authorization that they got of what they can send to Ukraine.

And so, in light of that, he is calling on Congress to quickly pass that $33 billion package that he's asked for. That's for mainly sending weapons to Ukraine but also humanitarian and economic assistance. So far, lawmakers have not made enough progress where they have been able to be prepared to send that, to pass that, to send it to the President Biden's desk, and he's asking them to move quickly to do so, so they can continue sending these weapons into Ukraine without any interruptions.

BROWN: And, of course, this comes as the first lady, Dr. Jill Biden, is in Eastern Europe and will be there through the weekend. What do we know about her plans there while she's there?

COLLINS: Yes. So far, she's gone to Romania. She's visiting with U.S. forces who are deployed there. You saw her today, of course, getting on her plane, going over there to make several of these stop. She visited with these forces, even brought them ketchup, which apparently was in short supply at the base that they were visiting, but really putting emphasis on the humanitarian aspect of this, which is not just the U.S. forces that have been sent there to reinforce NATO allies, she's also going to go to the border. She's going to go to Slovakia, as well the border with Ukraine, to visit with a lot of these displays Ukrainian refugees who have been force from their home.

Of course, the visit of this weekend is especially timely given it's Mother's Day on Sunday and that will be part of her visit as well, Pam.

BROWN: All right, CNN's Kaitlan Collins, thank you.

CNN has also learned that the longtime girlfriend of Vladimir Putin is on the list of sanction targets. What are you finding out?

And CNN has also learned that the woman widely believe to be Russian President Vladimir Putin long time girlfriend is named on the proposed list of European Union sanctions target.

CNN's Brian Todd is working the story for us. So, Brian, what are you finding out?

BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Pamela her name is Alina Kabaeva. And Vladimir Putin has been very secretive about her and their relationship as he has been about his entire family. But this woman, who's about 30 years younger than Putin, has benefited financially and politically from her association with him.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (voice over): She's been linked romantically to Vladimir Putin for more than a decade, though he has always denied it. An early photograph of them together at the time she was a decorated gymnast shows Putin looking infatuated with her.

Tonight the E.U. appears to set new sanctions on Alina Kabaeva, according to two European diplomatic sources.

LOUISE SHELLEY, TERRORISM, TRANSNATIONAL CRIME AND CORREPTION CENTER: This is very personal. She is not only part of his inner circle but she also probably holds a lot of money for Putin.

TODD: Kabaeva also, late last month, in a rare public appearance at a gymnastics event in Moscow, spoke out in support of Putin's war in Ukraine.

ALINA KABAEVA, FORMER OLYMPIC GYMNAST: Every family has a history of war and we shouldn't forget about it. We should hand it over from generation to generation.

BEN JUDAH, THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL: Alina Kabaeva has participated in a lot of propaganda state efforts to shore up the Putin regime over the years.

[18:40:03]

TODD: Kabaeva and Putin have rarely been seen in public together, but analyst say, she and her family have gotten rich because of her close ties to the Russian president. SHELLEY: She spends much of her time overseas, even though she has lavish properties in Russia to the tune of tens of millions of dollars.

TODD: Experts say targeting Putin's purported girlfriend for sanctions is a cold-eyed method of punishing the former KGB colonel for the Ukraine invasion.

JUDAH: One of the leaders to make him feel some of the costs of this is to sanction those closest to him and American officials believe that she is very close indeed.

TODD: Putin's two adult daughters from his first marriage were sanctioned by the U.S. last month. A U.S. official confirmed their names are Maria Putina, who also goes by the name Maria Vorontsova, and Katerina Thikhonova shown here speaking at an economic conference. Both are believed to be in their mid 30s.

CASEY MICHEL, KLEPTOCRACY INITIATIVE, THE HUDSON INSTITUTE: We know they have traveled widely, especially in the west. We know one of them, Katerina, was married to Russia's youngest billionaire, and we know that she also tried to pursue a career in acrobatic rock-and- roll.

The other one, Maria, we don't know quite as much about. We know she has pursued or at least purportedly pursued a career in medical sciences.

TODD: As for Alina Kabaeva, last month, The Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. official had debated whether to placed American sanctions on her, but held off out of concerns that so personal a strike at Putin would escalate tensions even more now that the E.U. could soon sanction Kabaeva and the U.S. has already sanctioned Putin's daughter.

SHELLEY: Putin might take this personally and strike out more at Ukraine and against the U.S.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (on camera): Analyst say there is also Putin's ex-wife, Lyudmila, the mother of Maria and Katerina, who also may have account where Putin is hiding his assets, one expert who tracks Putin's finances. So he does not believe that Lyudmila has been placed under any sanctions yet but he says that could be coming as the U.S. seeks to ratchet up the personal pressure on Vladimir Putin. Pamela?

BROWN: All right. Brian Todd, thanks for bringing us the latest there.

And coming up in THE SITUATION ROOM, stunning revelations from Donald Trump's former defense secretary who claims in a new book the former president wanted to launch missile at Mexico.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:46:44]

BROWN: A Georgia state judge says that far-right Republican Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene should not be disqualified from this month's primary over her role in the January 6th insurrection.

In an unprecedented hearing, lawyers for voters who challenged Greene's candidacy, tried to connect her rhetoric to the violent attack on the Capitol.

And we're also following startling new allegations about former President Trump.

Let's get more on that with CNN political analysts Jonathan Martin and Alex Burns. They are both national political correspondent for "The New York Times" and co-authors of the new book "This Will Not Pass: Trump, Biden and the Battle for America's Future."

Great to see you both. Congratulations on your book.

JONATHAN MARTIN, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: Thank you.

There you go.

BROWN: So many headlines out of it. We've going to dive into that.

But I have to ask about the other book from the former Trump Defense Secretary Mark Esper, this idea that Trump floated launching missile strikes into Mexico to take out drug labs.

MARTIN: Yes.

BROWN: Now, your book is full of stories detailing other wild ideas from Trump. I covered the Trump White House, and I remember hearing from officials they had to rein in his most outlandish instincts when it came to stuff.

Take me behind from all the reporting you did on this book on what that was like with officials trying to rein him and at every turn.

MARTIN: Yeah. I mean, it was not just his own staff, it was every level of government he was dealing with. We have a lot of material in the book from 2020 during the height of COVID when there are these governors across America who are desperately trying to get relief, literally a matter of life and death, trying to help people in their state. And they're calling the president, almost begging for help.

And the president is saying back to them, you have to show me some measure of appreciation and gratitude for me to help your state. That's the kind of operation that he had running. It was shocking to governors in both parties to find that trigger, but that was the nature of the Trump administration that we talk about in great length in the book.

BROWN: Yeah, just a transactional type nature.

MARTIN: That's right. ALEX BURNS, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: You know, one of the things that was also striking reporting in the book was the way people around President Trump who were somewhat less forthright than Secretary Esper who kind of rationalizing his wild behavior and trying to play down some of the really aberrational things he did as president, like his coercive behavior with governors. And like some of the, you know, to use technical terms, bonkers ideas, like sending missiles into Mexico.

There was a senior Trump administration official that we interviewed, we ran a particular Trump idea, pass this person, I won't get into that idea. The response we got is well, that idea never went through the inter agency process, as though that makes a difference whether the president of the United States is suggesting stuff, it's way out there in terms of mainstream political acceptance.

BROWN: You know, it's interesting because in covering the Trump White House, I got a lot of that, too. And they would either sometimes say you guys are making a big deal out of nothing, or they would say and rationalize it, this is how Trump's. This is why he so successful. He thinks outside the box, a lot of that.

And I'm wondering --

MARTIN: Or he was just kidding around.

BROWN: Or he was just kidding. That was another when you hear a lot of.

[18:50:01]

But it is pretty striking when Esper comes out and says bluntly quote, he should not be in a position of public service. I'm curious, in the course of your reporting, if you heard that same sentiment?

MARTIN: Oh, Sure. If you talk to a lot of people in the GOP, off the record, or not for attribution, they will be totally -- they don't want Donald Trump to be their standard bearer again. I think part of the reason why January 6th was consequential politically, at least in the short term, it is because the vast majority of the GOP lawmakers saw that is their opening. We can finally rid of this fellow. We can stop faking it.

This is one of the big storylines in our book. Divide between the leadership of the pub Republican Party and the voters. The leaders of the party have little regard for Trump. They have to put on this facade for the public, but in private and when he detailed this at great length in the book, they can't stand the fellow. The last thing they want is for him to run again for president.

BROWN: You know, it's interesting, because you do laid out really well in the book. I've heard from Republicans who don't like Trump. They say, well, if we stand up to him and we will lose and then you will have Marjorie Taylor Greene types, for example. You hear lot of that kind of rationalizing it.

But the audio that you released to back up all this excellent reporting you have in your book is really startling. Just with the Kevin McCarthy right after January 6th and comparing that what we are hearing now.

I also want to ask you when it comes to leading up to January 6th were all the election lies as we know, but also we're all the racial injustice. I know you touched on this in the book. Esper also confirms he floated the idea of shooting some of the protesters.

How close do the U.S. come to an even more violent crackdown on these demonstrators?

BURNS: Well, we are very fortunate as a country. The president never, to our knowledge, put to the test a direct order to the military to do something like that.

But one of the things that we uncovered in the reporting in our book was that the chairman of the joint chief of stacks, Mark Milley had told people at the time, told folks on the hill, including Democrats on the hill, I know that I don't have to follow an illegal order. That is a shocking thing for the nation's top general to be saying.

The implication of what he thinks of with the commander of chief couldn't be clearer.

MARTIN: And Trump when was really feeling the heat, our colleague Maggie Haberman, memorably reported, that he was brought to a bunker. He did this conference called with the nation's governor -- the governors couldn't believe this was the president of the United States. The governor of Maine, Gina Mills, turned to someone in her office said, the president of the United States is having a nervous breakdown.

So, it's an extraordinary scene. It's all there in the book.

BROWN: Yeah. Well, we will be reading it. If you haven't read it, check it out.

Jonathan Martin, Alex Burns, thank you.

MARTIN: Thank you.

BURNS: Thanks a lot.

BROWN: We will have more just ahead a wave of unexplained and severe hepatitis cases in young children has the CDC grasping for answers.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:57:26]

BROWN: There is more breaking news we're following tonight, the CDC now investigating more than one cases of severe hepatitis with children.

Let's dig deeper with CNN analyst, Dr. Leana Wen, an emergency room physician and former Baltimore health commissioner. Also a mother like I am.

This is so frightening. How concerning is this outbreak, and what would be the cause, Dr. Wen?

DR. LEANA WEN, CNN MEDICAL ANALYST: Well, it's something that we should keep an eye on. Right now the two elements are that it is so far unexplained, ease cases of hepatitis inflammation in the liver are already supposed to be very uncommon in children, right now we don't know the cause. It does not appear to be due to the hepatitis viruses, it is not due to medicines or toxins that causes unknown. And the other thing too is even though it's only effected relatively few children this far, just over 100 children that's known, it's caused very severe illness in these children. Most have had to be hospitalized, 15 have needed liver transplants and five children have died.

So parents should be on the lookout for symptoms like very high fever, prolong abdominal pain, very importantly, jaundice, yellowing of the skin, yellowing of the whites and the eyes. Light colored school -- stools, dark colored urine, if any of the symptoms, call your doctor right away.

BROWN: All right. I want to ask you, the FDA is importing -- imposing strict limits on who should get the J&J COVID vaccine. I know you had that and they're saying it's because of the rare but dangerous blood clotting condition, this rare side effect.

What do you make of this new warning?

WEN: We in the U.S. are fortunate. We have two other vaccines that are very safe and very effective, the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. So, the FDA simply saying choose those two other vaccines first. If you can't get one of these other vaccines first for some reason, you could still get the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.

Very importantly, if you've got the J&J vaccine already, don't worry. I got the change a vaccine over your go and you are not to have long term side effects from that. The side effects of this is very rare, but again, serious side effects of blood clots disorder is only seen in the first to three weeks so that's when you should be worried but not after.

BROWN: All right. Dr. Leana Wen, thank you so much joining us.

WEN: Thank you.

BROWN: And we are following breaking news out of Cuba where a massive explosion at a prominent hotel in Havana has killed at least nine people and injured dozens. Officials say a gas leak is believed to be the cost of the blast. It destroyed the historic hotel there, Saratoga, as well as buses and cars outside.

A CNN team there saw rescuers using their bare hands to reach people trapped in the rubble.

Thank you very much for watching, I'm Pamela Brown. Join me tomorrow for CNN newsroom starting at 6:00 p.m. Eastern.

"ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT" starts right now.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNTSR0020220507ei5600001


Russia: EU to give Hungary and Slovakia more time to give up on Russian oil imports
480 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Hungary remains main impediment to oil embargo

Other sanctions include cutting off Sberbank from SWIFT

Blacklisting more Russian companies and Putin's mistress

The EU will grant Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic exception from the embargo on Russian oil that should enter into force by the year-end, Bloomberg and Euronews reported quoting sources close to the matter. Namely, Hungary and Slovakia should be allowed to buy Russian oil until end-2024 rather than end-2023 as previously reported. At the same time, an exception will also be made for the Czech Republic, which will be able to continue to purchase Russian crude until Jun 2024. The country may implement the embargo earlier, if it is connected to the Transapline Pipeline quickly. Neither Hungary, nor Slovakia or the Czech Republic will be allowed to sell Russian oil to other countries. This should guarantee a severe blow for the Russian energy sector as the weight of the three Central European countries in EU oil purchases is limited and the biggest buyers, including Germany and the Netherlands, will give up on Russian crude by the year-end. The embargo will not cover oil from other countries that is transported through Russia. This likely addressed concern from Budapest, which complained it will not be able to buy crude from Kazakhstan as the ban would prevent shipment through the Druzhba pipeline.

Nevertheless, Hungarian PM Victor Orban continued to express opposition to the oil ban plans, commenting this will have catastrophic consequences for the Hungarian economy. At the same time, Slovak Deputy EconMin Karol Galek said that his country needs three more years to give up Russian oil and that negotiations continue. Czech PM Petr Fiala sounded more prone to concession saying the things are going in the right direction. The negotiations started on Wednesday and according to Euronews sources may extend into the weekend

The EU also intends to ban EU-based companies to transport Russian oil to non-oil countries. However, objections to this came from Greece, Cyprus and Malta and thus the three countries should be given three additional months to implement the ban.

Other measures in the sixth sanction package proposed by the EC include:

Disconnecting three more banks from SWIFT, including Russia's largest lender Sberbank.

Restrictions on purchases of real estate in the EU by Russian entities and individuals.

Prohibition on providing consulting services to Russian entities and trade in some chemicals.

Blacklist Alina Kabaeva, who is believed to be Putin's mistress and mother of two of his children. Reportedly, such sanctions were left out of previous Western sanction package as it was considered too personal.

Blacklist military personnel, including people believed to have participated in the Bucha war crimes. Sanction more companies providing services and equipment to the Russian army.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220509ei5600017


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU tries to agree on sanctions against Russian oil on Sunday
502 字
2022 年 5 月 7 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The ambassadors of the European Union will meet this Sunday to try to move forward the sixth package of sanctions against Russia for the war in Ukraine, which provides for a ban on oil imports from this country, although with a transition period and exceptions to the most dependent partners.

The capitals continued this Saturday with contacts at a technical level to overcome the reluctance of countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic, although no meeting at ambassadorial level was convened during the day, which is scheduled for this Sunday.

According to diplomatic sources, the meeting will be "a priori at noon" with the objective of resolving the differences that persist on crude oil and "confirming" that there are no problems on the rest of the elements of the package.

With respect to oil, the same sources insist that "there is no political blockage", but it is necessary to look for "alternative" formulas to guarantee the supply of the hydrocarbon to countries which are dependent on crude oil sent by pipeline, a matter which "is not easy".

Talks on the rest of the retaliation package against Moscow, such as the exclusion of Swift from Sberbank or the new sanctioned individuals, are progressing "well", the same sources explain.

Being highly dependent on crude imports from Russia, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are asking for a longer transition period to divest themselves of their oil, even though Brussels has proposed an exception for Budapest and Bratislava that would give them one year longer than the rest to achieve this, until December 31, 2023.

Although it was not originally included in this special treatment, Prague has also publicly requested a postponement of two, or even three years, to disengage from Russian crude.

The EU executive's proposal, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban Russian oil imports into the EU six months after the sanctions come into force, while for refined oil the deadline is extended to eight months.

The sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, that are related to the ban on Russian oil.

In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian oil in all its forms, including "ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to other flagged cargo vessels.

On the financial front, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the country's largest, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220507ei570081w


CE Noticias Financieras English
Day 74 of invasion: EU fails to reach agreement on ban on Russian crude oil purchases
513 字
2022 年 5 月 8 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The countries of the European Union (EU) were unable to reach an agreement on Sunday to ban oil imports from Russia in response to the war in Ukraine, because of the difficulties posed for some partners by their dependence on crude oil from Moscow.

The meeting of the EU-27 ambassadors to the EU began at about midday and lasted for an hour and a half, diplomatic sources explain, without the European capitals managing to unblock the reserves of countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic.

The oil embargo continues to be the main difficulty in moving forward with the bloc's sixth retaliation package against the Kremlin, despite the fact that the European Commission's original proposal contemplates a generic withdrawal period until the end of the year and gives Hungary and Slovakia an extra year because of their dependence on imports of Russian crude oil by pipeline.

During the last hours "very important progress" has been made on "most of the elements" that make up the package, but "work remains to be done" to reach an agreement, the same sources specify.

In particular, on the guarantees sought by Budapest, Bratislava and Prague to ensure a sufficient supply of this hydrocarbon when they renounce Russian crude, on which they are very dependent through imports by pipeline.

The European club's objective, therefore, is to continue contacts "at all levels" at the beginning of next week in order to reach an agreement on the sixth package of sanctions "as quickly as possible".

The EU executive's proposal, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban Russian oil imports into the EU six months after the entry into force of the sanctions, while in the case of refined oil the deadline is extended to eight months.

In the case ofHungary and Slovakia, they would enjoy a longer period, until December 31, 2023, but both countries find it short and they were also joined by the Czech Republic, which asked for three years.

In any case, the sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, related to the ban on Russian oil.

In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian oil in all its forms, including"ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to other flagged cargo vessels.

On the other hand, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the largest in the country, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220508ei580052h


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU still no agreement to ban oil purchases from Russia
508 字
2022 年 5 月 8 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Madrid 8 MAY 2022 - 15:28CEST European Union countries were unable to reach an agreement on Sunday to ban oil imports from Russia in response to the war in Ukraine, because of the difficulties posed for some partners by their dependence on Moscow's crude. The European club's goal, therefore, is to continue contacts "at all levels" early next week to reach "as quickly as possible" an agreement on the sixth sanctions package.

The meeting of the ambassadors of the EU-27 to the EU began at approximately midday and lasted for an hour and a half, diplomatic sources explain, without the European capitals managing to unblock the reserves of countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic.

The oil embargo continues to be the main difficulty in moving forward with the bloc's sixth retaliation package against the Kremlin, despite the fact that the European Commission's original proposal contemplates a generic withdrawal period until the end of the year and gives Hungary and Slovakia an extra year because of their dependence on imports of Russian crude oil by pipeline.

During the last hours "very important progress" has been made on "most of the elements" that make up the package, but "work remains to be done" to reach an agreement, the same sources specify.

In particular, on the guarantees sought by Budapest, Bratislava and Prague to ensure a sufficient supply of this hydrocarbon when they renounce Russian crude, on which they are very dependent through imports by pipeline.

Possible sanctions The proposal of the Community Executive, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban imports of Russian oil into the EU six months after the entry into force of the sanctions, while in the case of refined oil the period is extended to eight months

. In the case of Hungary and Slovakia, they would enjoy a longer period, until December 31, 2023, but both countries find it short and they were also joined by the Czech Republic, which asked for three years.

In any case, the sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, related to the ban on Russian oil. In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian oil in all its forms, including "ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to other flagged cargo vessels.

On the other hand, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the largest in the country, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220508ei58005cs


Ukraine needs further anti-Russian sanctions - Zelenskiy
491 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日 16:05 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds last three paras.

Bratislava, May 10 (CTK) - Ukraine needs Western countries to adopt further anti-Russian sanctions, including energy measures, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy told deputies to the Slovak parliament in an address via video conference today.

The EU member states have not reached an agreement on the sixth package of the sanctions targeting Russia. Among others, a ban on import of Russian oil is included in the package.

Slovak deputies and government members gave Zelenskiy a standing ovation, while some opposition deputies ignored the speech.

Ukraine needs another sanction package, Zelenskiy said. It is necessary to reject Russian oil, because it is a matter of freedom, he added.

The Russian invasion of Ukraine started on February 24.

The Ukrainian president said he can understand it is difficult for Slovakia to cut off Russian oil supplies. Bratislava asked for a transition period if an embargo of oil import were put in place, but previous information suggests that the country is not going to block the ban on Russian oil. By contrast, Hungary is probably not going to back the oil embargo.

Zelenskiy thanked Bratislava for help during the conflict in Ukraine.

All countries want to live free and choose its future, he said in his speech, referring to 1968 when the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact troops invaded Czechoslovakia. The Ukrainian president is of the view that the Russian military has to be stopped now, otherwise it may further advance, which may concern Slovakia, too.

According to Zelenskiy, weapons are the main tool that helps Ukraine. He indirectly encouraged Western countries to provide aircraft and helicopters.

The Slovak government gave a Soviet-made defence system, S-300, to Ukraine in April.

Slovak PM Eduard Heger and members of his government listened to the speech in the parliament seat, too.

By contrast, some opposition representatives said in advance that they would leave the hall before the speech. Among them, there was former prime minister Robert Fico (Smer-Social Democracy) who called Zelenskiy a liar on Monday. Fico expressed his disagreement with Slovak arms supplies for Ukraine.

Before Zelenskiy's speech, parliament chairman Boris Kollar said Slovakia belonged to the countries that condemned Russian aggression against Ukraine. The country helps Ukrainian refugees, too, he added.

Later today, Slovak parliament passed a resolution condemning the Russian military aggression towards Ukraine including crimes against humanity and war crimes. In the resolution, the parliament called on Moscow to stop the fighting and respect the territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders.

Simultaneously, the resolution appreciated the citizens of Russia and representatives of institutions in Russia who have condemned the invasion of Ukraine.

On the proposal of the deputies for the government coalition, the parliament also suspended the activities of the parliamentary group for friendship with Russia and Belarus, the latter's territory, too, having been used by Russian troops to attack Ukraine.

vok,rtj/mr/hol,kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220510ei5a0000a


Slovakia This Week - May 13, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 13 日, 4098 字, (英文)
EBRD expects 30% GDP contraction in Ukraine in 2022, lowers emerging Europe projectionsA severe contraction now expected at 30% this year in war-torn Ukraine has dragged down the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development's (EBRD) ...

Foreign Policy
Korcok Doesn't Expect Breakthrough in Talks on Sixth Sanction Package at FAC
86 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 10:33 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Brussels, May 16 (TASR-correspondent) - Slovak Foreign Affairs Minister Ivan Korcok (a Freedom and Solidarity/SaS nominee) doesn't expect Monday's Foreign Affairs Council (FAC) meeting in Brussels to lead to a breakthrough in negotiations on the sixth package of European Union sanctions against Russia.

The negotiations are still ongoing, said Korcok, adding that Slovakia's stance on these sanctions and on an embargo on Russian oil remains the same.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220516ei5g000p1


Turkey, Hungary leaders delay unity in NATO, EU Objections center on Kurdish group, new energy system
Steven Erlanger; Matina Stevis-Gridneff
796 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日
The Capital (Annapolis)
CPGN
A.2
英文
Copyright (c) 2022 The Capital (Annapolis). Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS - Europe's effort to stand up to Russia and Vladimir Putin, its president, is being slowed by two strongmen leaders insisting on the priority of their national interests and playing to domestic audiences.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey on Wednesday blocked a procedural vote on NATO moving ahead quickly with the membership applications of Sweden and Finland, handed in with much publicity Wednesday, a senior European diplomat said.

And Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary continues to block even a watered-down European Union effort to put an embargo on Russian oil, part of a sixth package of sanctions aimed at Moscow for its war against Ukraine.

While NATO and the EU have shown remarkable unity in their response to Putin's war, the actions of the two authoritarian leaders show the strains building as the war drags on, peace talks appear to go nowhere, and Western sanctions are contributing to economic pain and high inflation at home, as well as in Russia.

On Wednesday, a meeting of NATO ambassadors could not reach consensus on a first vote to proceed with the requests for membership because Turkey said it first wanted NATO to address its security concerns.

In particular, Turkey wants Finland and especially Sweden to end what Erdogan has called support for "terrorist organizations" in their countries, primarily the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, as well as to lift export bans on certain arms sales to Turkey.

Addressing his lawmakers in Parliament on Wednesday, Erdogan criticized at length Western support for Kurdish groups that Turkey sees as a terrorist threat.

Turkey "asked for 30 terrorists," he said. "They said: 'We are not giving them,' " Erdogan told the Parliament. "You won't hand over terrorists but you want to join NATO. We cannot say yes to a security organization that is devoid of security."

The PKK is a Kurdish guerrilla group that has fought a decadeslong separatist insurgency in parts of Turkey. It was designated by the United States as a terrorist organization in 1997.

Erdogan remains angry over support from Washington and Stockholm for a PKK-affiliated militia in Syria, where the group was fighting the Islamic State. And Turkey has demanded the extradition of six alleged PKK members from Finland and 11 alleged PKK members from Sweden.

Erdogan has said these issues cause him to not have "favorable thoughts" about the membership of the Nordic countries. But he has not said that he would veto their applications.

National security is Orban's argument too. Hungary is dependent on Russia for its energy, getting 85% of its natural gas and 65% of its oil supply from Russia, as well as using Russian technology for its nuclear power plants.

While Hungary has approved all previous sanction packages, including an embargo on Russian coal, Orban said an oil embargo would be the equivalent of an "atomic bomb" for the Hungarian economy.

But like Erdogan in NATO, Orban this time is the sole holdout, in his case, in the weekslong EU efforts to finalize a gradual embargo on Russian oil, the headline measure in a sixth package of sanctions since the invasion of Ukraine.

Talks began in April. After consultation between EU officials and diplomats from the bloc's 27 member states, a proposal was put on the table incorporating different positions in early May.

But Hungary seemed to be moving the goal posts. The first proposal gave extensions to Hungary and Slovakia to find alternative suppliers. While the other 25 EU members would have until the end of the year, Hungary and Slovakia would have through 2023.

Then Hungary demanded, and secured, even more time. The latest version of the package would grant it until the end of 2024, but Orban has insisted that Hungary would need billions from the bloc to shield his nation's economy. His foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, said that to use different oil and modernize Hungary's energy system would cost $15.7 billion to $18.8 billion and take five years.

Diplomats said they expect Orban eventually to acquiesce to an oil embargo, having secured both a long extension and extra funding for Hungary, but that he could drag the talks out even longer, perhaps until the end of the month.

NATO officials expressed the same confidence about Erdogan - that he will eventually agree to back Sweden and Finland joining NATO in return for some concessions that will help him politically at home, with his economy in crisis and new elections only a year away.

Caption: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg displays documents as Sweden and Finland applied for membership Wednesday in Brussels, Belgium. Johanna Geron/Pool photo via AP

Capital Gazette Communications

文件 CPGN000020220519ei5j0000i


Russia's Aeroflot, Ural Airlines and Rossiya Airlines have been targeted with...
922 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日 15:13 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Russia's Aeroflot, Ural Airlines and Rossiya Airlines have been targeted with new sanctions to prevent them selling off landing slots at UK airports.

The slots, which are now unused as a result of the ban on Russian airlines, could have been worth around £50 million.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "As long as (Vladimir) Putin continues his barbarous assault on Ukraine, we will continue to target the Russian economy.

"We've already closed our airspace to Russian airlines. Today we're making sure they can't cash in their lucrative landing slots at our airports.

"Every economic sanction reinforces our clear message to Putin, we will not stop until Ukraine prevails."

Some 53,800 people have arrived in the UK under Ukraine visa schemes, according to Government figures published on Thursday.

This includes 20,800 people under the family scheme, and 33,000 people under the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme as of Monday.

The figures also show that, as of Tuesday, around 128,100 applications have been made for visas, and 107,400 visas have been issued.

These include 43,700 applications under the family scheme, of which 38,700 visas have been granted, and 84,400 applications under the sponsorship scheme, of which 68,700 visas have been granted.

Boris Johnson has raised "significant concerns" with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky about rising food prices linked to the Russian invasion.

In a call on Thursday morning, the pair looked at options to "open up critical sea and land supply routes for Ukrainian grain stocks", and committed to directing their teams to "work urgently on the next steps", Downing Street said.

A No 10 spokesperson said: "The Prime Minister spoke to Ukrainian President Zelensky today to discuss a range of issues, including military support and global food security.

"The Prime Minister raised his significant concerns about the growing global fallout from Russia's illegal invasion and President (Vladimir) Putin's craven and reckless blockade of Ukraine's Black Sea ports, including rising food prices in developing countries.

"They looked at options to open up critical sea and land supply routes for Ukrainian grain stocks, and committed to direct their teams to work urgently on the next steps."

The PM also stressed his "undimmed admiration for the brave defenders of Mariupol" and urged Russia to treat any prisoners of war with dignity and respect, No 10 said.

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK has emphasised the need to put senior Russian figures on trial for war crimes committed in his country.

Speaking to the PA news agency, Vadym Prystaiko said: "To set an example for many of the dictators in the world, we have to do it.

"The example of post-World War Two has already sort of vanished from people's memory, so they have to be revitalised, the image itself."

He added that the trial of individuals involved in shooting down Malaysian Airways jet MH17 over Ukraine in 2014 would be "a very good litmus paper".

Mr Prystaiko said: "If you can have people responsible for killing a whole plane of people, deliberately, not just the guy who pushed the button sitting next to the rocket, but the chain of command, this will show the resolve of the whole of Western civilisation."

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK has expressed concern about Ukrainian refugees made homeless after falling out with their British hosts.

Speaking to the PA news agency, Vadym Prystaiko said: "It's a big, big deal."

He added: "We were building the plane while we were flying. We understand, ourselves and your Government, that that's an issue and we are trying to address it."

As well as developing a "rematching" system, Mr Prystaiko suggested a "hybrid approach" with some people staying in a hotel would mean Ukrainian refugees would be less dependent on relationships with individual hosts.

More than one million Ukrainian refugees have already returned home, the country's ambassador to the UK has said.

Vadym Prystaiko told an event in Westminster: "We see Ukrainians are frustrated with the growing discomfort, the growing struggle with different systems around the European Union, because they are missing their loved ones, they're missing their homes, they're missing their jobs."

He added that the mayors of Kyiv and Kharkhiv had had to tell people not to return to the cities as it was still unsafe.

Mr Prystaiko said: "One of the things I'd like to address is how we can still be able to hold them here somewhere in Europe, the European Union, sometimes across the pond in Canada and the United States."

The family of Ukraine's ambassador to the UK had to wait more than a month for a British visa after fleeing their homes.

Ambassador Vadym Prystaiko told the PA news agency: "They managed to get to Slovakia just from the northern border and for a month, a month and a half, they were waiting until their visas will be considered."

He said some refugees had never made it to the UK due to the length of time it took to process visa applications.

But he added that he did not want to make too much of his family's case, saying: "There are so many families which cannot be as fortunate as having their son already settled in London, which can provide. Imagine you have no relatives, you have no money, you have no language, this is so much a different thing from my case."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220519ei5j0035x


Foreign Policy
Fico: Winner of EU Summit in Brussels Was Viktor Orban
269 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 15:53 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, May 31 (TASR) - The winner of the Brussels summit on sanctions against Russia was Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who managed to secure an exemption for supplies of Russian oil via the Druzhba pipeline, said Smer-SD chair Robert Fico on TASR TV on Tuesday.

The multi-year exemption will apply not only to Hungary, but also the Czech Republic and Slovakia. "Orban, not [Slovak Prime Minister Eduard] Heger, managed to secure the exemption for Slovakia where supplies of Russian oil via the Druzhba pipeline are concerned," claimed Fico.

The ban on Russian oil supplies via tankers is a sanction that will "certainly cause pain" to Russia, although Moscow still has the option to sell the resource on alternative markets. "But on behalf of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, Viktor Orban was very right to put up a fight and make sure that the Druzhba pipeline will go on," stated Fico.

According to the Smer-SD chair, Prime Minister Eduard Heger (OLaNO) was attempting at the beginning to convince the Hungarian prime minister to accept the EU's original proposal. "Heger, who has no real political power, attempted to persuade a man who has been consistent since the outset and enjoys the kind of mandate that Heger can't even dream of," said Fico.

Late on Monday (May 30), EU leaders concluded a deal on introducing a partial oil embargo against Russia. The embargo applies only to Russian oil transported by sea and allows temporary exemptions for supplies via pipelines to several countries, including Hungary and Slovakia.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220531ei5v001b9


Ukraine's president welcomes new sanctions but criticises "unacceptable" delay
88 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 16:03 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
(Reuters) - Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy on Tuesday welcomed a sixth package of European Union sanctions against Russia but criticised what he called an "unacceptable" delay in the bloc agreeing the latest measures.

"When over 50 days have passed between the 5th and 6th sanction packages, the situation is not acceptable for us," Zelenskiy said, speaking alongside Slovakia's President Zuzana Caputova in Kyiv.

(Reporting by Max Hunder; Editing by Gareth Jones)

Released: 2022-5-31T16:03:20.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220531ei5v02ypp


EU summit LIVE: Gleeful Orban declares 'victory' over EU and mocks Brussels after oil row
Francesca Edwards,Olivia Stringer,Tara Fair
8375 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 19:54 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
VIKTOR ORBAN has declared "victory" over the EU as a compromise was reached on the sixth package of EU sanctions against Putin.

The Hungarian leader was opposed to a complete ban on Russian oil but agreed to a compromise that would allow Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic to continue being supplied via the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline that runs through Ukraine. Following a two-day summit of EU leaders, Mr Orban declared via a social media post a "victory report from Brussels." Appearing to mock the EU, he added: “The father is a man, the mother is a woman, petrol is 480." This is a reference to the ruling Hungarian party's message that Hungary is fighting Brussels to safeguard traditional gender norms. The “480” references Hungary's legal price cap on fuel.

FOLLOW BELOW FOR LIVE UPDATES...

KEY EVENTS Huge EU rift opens as nations slap down Eastern block on Russian gas ban17:08EU announces new ban on Russian oil imports to cripple Putin's war machine 07:40'This is a good sign'- Scholz14:32Orban blames EU for delay14:23Ukraine accused EU of 'hypocrisy to great extent'12:19

20:48 Olivia Stringer

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has said that all major EU countries except Italy are against Ukraine joining the EU.

However, he added: "Ukraine’s rapid move towards the EU cannot be ruled out. And it seems to me that the European Commission also agrees with this view."

19:56 Olivia Stringer

Berlin will give Greece infantry fighting vehicles so that Athens can pass on Soviet-style weapons to Ukraine, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Tuesday.

Following a two day summit of EU leaders in Brussels, he said: "We will provide Greece with German infantry fighting vehicles.

Mr Scholz gave no details on the kind of infantry fighting vehicles it will give to Greece or what kind of weapons Greece will pass on to Kyiv.

He said: "The defence ministries will work out the details and quickly implement this agreement.

18:57 Olivia Stringer

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has said that a seventh package of EU sanctions on Russia "will happen" but added: “it’s difficult for me to predict how long it will take.”

Mr Rutte said he did not want to "speculate" on whether the next round of sanctions would include further fossil fuels sanctions.

Commenting on the drawn-out talks on the sixth package, he said: “I think what we can learn from the sixth package is that it’s best to first have a discussion on technicalities and then to decide on the exact size and makeup of the whole sanctions package itself.”

18:19 Olivia Stringer

The West risks alienating African nations if it cannot stabilise global food supplies, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi said on Tuesday.

Mr Draghi warned that Russia is already spreading propaganda in Africa that food shortages are the result of Western sanctions.

He said: “Winning the battle of food security for Africa is also important from a strategic point of view … because the thesis that is spread is that a possible famine would depend on sanctions,” he said. “When we know that sanctions depend on the war.”

Many African countries, he added, “are not on the side of the West, you have seen their votes at the United Nations — most of them have abstained. So what the alliance would like to do is to bring them to our side.

“If you lose the war on food security, there will never be any hope that these countries can come to the side of the alliance because they will naturally feel betrayed, then whose fault is this is the least relevant issue for them.

So “beyond the humanitarian consequences, which are tragic, there are the strategic consequences which are very, very serious."

17:49 Olivia Stringer

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said that the reconstruction of Ukraine following the war will be a "very big task" for the next few years, that must not be underestimated.

Mr Scholz said the EU will work with international organisations and experts to develop the best solutions.

He stressed the need to involve “many international organizations that can develop, with the greatest expertise, a concrete way forward” for Ukraine, which was suffering from “a great pile of debt and great destruction.”

17:28 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has welcomed the new package of EU sanctions, however, he criticised the "unacceptable" delay between the fifth and sixth sanctions packages.

In an address to EU leaders on Monday, Mr Zelensky said that 74 children had died in the 52 days since the last package of EU sanctions.

Today, he added: "When over 50 days have passed between the 5th and 6th sanction packages, the situation is not acceptable for us."

17:08 Olivia Stringer

A huge rift has opened up on the second day of the EU Summit as nations slap down the eastern block on a Russian gan ban.

On Monday night, the EU announced that an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels. The EU is now divided on whether the bloc should go further and target Russian gas next.

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has dismissed the possibility that the EU would go after Russian gas next after sanctioning Russian oil. He said: “Gas behaves very differently from oil in terms of security of supply — it is much easier to compensate for oil." But Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has said it is important that Russian gas is part of the next package.

16:56 Olivia Stringer

Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo has called for an EU price cap on gas following today's summit.

Mr De Croo said that a price cap would help the EU hide a "stick behind the door" so that prices do not become“speculative and detached from reality.”

He described the move towards a price cap as an unwelcome necessity.

He said: “I'm not a proponent of having to use [price caps] either, but it's a bit like defence: I'm not a proponent of using the army either, but you have to have it ready."

16:28 Olivia Stringer

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has called the EU summit "reasonably successful" while acknowledging compromises had to be made to get a deal on a Russian oil emabrgo.

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi gave an upbeat assessment of the summit, while acknowledging leaders were forced to make some compromises to get a deal on a ban on Russian oil.

Asked by POLITICO whether the summit had been successful, Draghi replied: “Yes, yes. It was reasonably successful.”

“We reached lots of objectives. We managed to have the embargo on oil. We were quite united on that. It was a difficult decision. Some countries that are landlocked were given an exemption but all this would account for less than 10 percent of the oil embargo.

“We managed to discuss the electricity market, the possibility of a price cap. The Commission will have a mandate to study this issue. We discussed defense and we discussed food security. So it was a good summit.”

16:14 Olivia Stringer

Hungarian President Viktor Orban has declared via a social media post a "victory report from Brussels.

He said: “The father is a man, the mother is a woman, petrol is 480."

This is a reference to the ruling Hungarian party's message that Hungary is fighting Brussels to safeguard traditional gender norms.

The “480” references Hungary's legal price cap on fuel.

15:42 Olivia Stringer

French President Emmanuel Macron has said he is not ruling out more sanctions on Russia after a sixth package of EU sanctions was agreed upon following a two-day summit in Brussels.

Speaking to reporters following the summit, Mr Macron also said he hoped that soon an agreement could be reached with Russia to get more exports of grain out of Russia.

He said: "I hope that the next few days or weeks will make it possible to resolve this situation".

15:20 Olivia Stringer

The EU will keep working to make sure it closes any loopholes in Russian sanctions, Ursula vo der Leyen has said.

She added that the global food crisis is solely the fault of Russia as the EU has not put any sanctions on food.

She said: "The only reason we are struggling now is because of this brutal war."

15:14 Olivia Stringer

Germany has already managed to reduce its dependence of Russian oil from 35 per cent to 12 percent , Ursula von der Leyen has said.

She said that this shows that just by working hard to finish contracts and look for alternative contracts, the EU can wind down its tolerance on Russian oil.

15:06 Olivia Stringer

The best option for getting grain out of Ukraine is a maritime corridor, Chares Michel has said.

He said the EU supports the UN in their attempts to get grain out of Ukraine.

Mr Michel added that the EU is also looking at ways to facilitate alternative routes, however, he said this will be more expensive and more difficult.

15:04 Olivia Stringer

Good afternoon, I'm Olivia Stringer and I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: olivia.stringer@reachplc.com

Twitter: @Livstringer_

14:33 Tara Fair

The EU is a political and economic union of 27 countries that trade with each other and allow citizens to move easily between the countries to live and work.

The UK joined the EU, then known as the EEC , in 1973.

A referendum was held June 23 2016 to decide whether the UK would remain inside the EU.

The Leave side won by nearly 52 percent to 48 percent - 17.4 million votes to 16.1 million.

14:23 Tara Fair

Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades said he briefed EU leaders at the summit about the “latest illegal actions by the Turkish occupying forces in Cyprus, inter alia, in the fenced-off area of Varosha.”

He said: “Despite United Nations and European calls, Turkey continues to create new faits accomplis, inter alia, at the expense of prospects of resuming negotiations.

“Reiterated my proposal for confidence building measures that can build trust and pave the way for restarting meaningful talks, aimed at a viable solution."

He called for EU assistance to make this possible and expressed full solidarity with the Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis “amid Ankara’s recent inflammatory rhetoric.”

14:03 Tara Fair

EU leaders are set to discuss the bloc's military capabilities after concluding their debate about a looming global food crisis.

The conversation comes just days after Germany agreed on a giant €100billion investment fund to boost its own chronically under-financed armed forces.

13:39 Tara Fair

The African Union chair, President of Senegal Macky Sall, has thanked the EU for their efforts during the joint discussion on global food security.

He said: "On behalf of the African Union, I thank the European Leaders who associated me with the European Council meeting to discuss solutions to the food crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, which is impacting Africa.

"The AU will continue its consultation with the EU."

Au nom de l\u2019Union Africaine, je remercie les Dirigeants Europ\u00e9ens qui m\u2019ont associ\u00e9 \u00e0 la r\u00e9union du Conseil europ\u00e9en pour \u00e9changer sur les solutions \u00e0 la crise alimentaire engendr\u00e9e par la guerre en Ukraine, qui impacte l\u2019Afrique.L\u2019UA poursuivra sa concertation avec l\u2019UE.

13:12 Tara Fair

French President Emmanuel Macron has warned world leaders not to fall into the Russian "disinformation trap" as they meet to discuss food security.

Meanwhile, Senegalese President Macky Sall stressed the need to counter a Russian propaganda campaign blaming Western sanctions for food export blockages.

An EU official told Politico the two leaders made their points during a session on food security.

The official recalled Mr Macron saying Europe and Africa should “be vigilant not to fall into the trap” of Russian disinformation, calling for strong coordination between the EU and the African Union.

12:47 Tara Fair

Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal has thanked EU leaders after they agreed to ban the purchase of most Russian oil.

He said he was "grateful" for the development.

#EUCO agreed a 6th package of sanctions, which will allow a ban on oil imports from russia. Grateful to @EUCouncil, @vonderleyen & @eucopresident for support of \ud83c\uddfa\ud83c\udde6! The sanctions will impact 75% of russian oil imports just now. And 90% will be banned by the end of the year.

12:35 Tara Fair

Poland is working hard to increase the export capabilities of Ukraine amid a looming food security crisis, according to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki.

He said: “I showed Polish capabilities, I showed how much Poland is doing to increase the export capabilities from Ukraine and how much more we could do, especially if we are supported by EU partners."

12:09 Tara Fair

The President of the European Council, Charles Michel has accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of "using food as a weapon of war".

He said the Kremlin was destroying crops, blocking tonnes of grain and risking global famine.

"The EU is sparing no efforts to free Ukraine's exports over land and exploring alternative sea routes," Mr Michel insisted.

Thanks @Macky_Sall for joining #EUCO to address food security #AUEU

Russia is using food as weapon of war.

Destroying crops, blocking tonnes of grain, risking global famine.

EU is sparing no efforts to free #Ukraine's exports over land and exploring alternative sea routes. pic.twitter.com/InTkQfiQ6c

11:48 Tara Fair

The Irish Prime Minister has accused Vladimir Putin of attempting to create a global food crisis.

Micheal Martin said there is “no doubt” the Russian President was trying to create this problem and said the EU would be discussing this issue on Tuesday morning.

There are concerns among European countries, Mr Martin said that “if you combine the impact of the war with drought in the Horn of Africa, we are facing into very challenging times around food security and famine across the Middle East and Africa.”

The Irish prime minister warned: “A significant humanitarian crisis still awaits us in respect of the food dimension.”

11:29 Tara Fair

The new sanctions on Russian oil will push the EU to accelerate renewable energy projects, according to Irish Prime Minister Micheál Martin.

He noted countries must now establish offshore wind capacity “much sooner” than they had previously anticipated.

Ireland has focussed on developing its offshore wind energy capacity since Russia invaded, Mr Martin said.

He hopes this move will eventually end the dependence on imported fossil fuels.

11:16 Tara Fair

The African Union chair, President of Senegal Macky Sall, has addressed the leaders on the second day of the EU Summit.

The leaders will today discuss food security after reaching an agreement on a Russian oil ban on Monday.

At #EUCO @eucopresident now invited @Macky_Sall chair of @_AfricanUnion to address #EU27 leaders on food security. pic.twitter.com/ZdTzq942sn

10:58 Tara Fair

A Ukrainian official has slammed the EU for its reluctance to introduce sanctions on Russia.

In a tweet, the advisor, Mykhailo Podolyak, said: “Russia must not win, but we won’t give heavy weapons – it may offend.

"Putin must lose but let’s not impose new sanctions.

"Millions will starve, but we’re not ready for military convoys with grain.

"Rising prices are not the worst that awaits a democratic world with such a policy.”

\ud83c\uddf7\ud83c\uddfa must not win, but we won\u2019t give heavy weapons - it may offend Rf. Putin must lose but let\u2019s not impose new sanctions. Millions will starve, but we\u2019re not ready for military convoys with grain. Rising prices are not the worst that awaits a democratic world with such a policy.

10:41 Tara Fair

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán sent a message to Hungarians overnight that he has succeeded in protecting their oil price reductions.

Mr Orbán boasted in a video posted to social media that a deal to ban Russian oil included exemptions that would allow Hungary to stick to its old supply routes.

This exemption is intended to be temporary and EU leaders have vowed to return to this issue.

But Mr Orban is celebrating the deal as a victory for his administration.

10:24 Tara Fair

Latvia’s Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš has said the EU is "determined" to stop the flow of money to Vladimir Putin's war machine.

He said: “Three months after the start of the war, we have gone sanction after sanction after sanction, ever tighter ever tighter, notwithstanding the fact that the sanctions also negative never negatively affect us, European Union's member states.

“We're still determined to stop the flows of money to Moscow and the unity is there.”

10:10 Tara Fair

Mark Rutte has interrupted Brussels' oil celebration to point out that Viktor Orban "had a point" after the EU announced it would ban 90 percent of Russian oil imports by the end of the year - with Hungary exempted.

On Monday night, the EU announced that an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels.

Hungarian Prime Minister Mr Orban has been issued an exception for pipeline imports without a deadline and a provision that would allow Hungary to buy oil via shipments if pipeline supplies are cut off.

Dutch Prime Minister Mr Rutte said: “I think to have the whole picture we have to acknowledge that they are in a difficult position because they are using Russian oil. And because their refineries are only working on this particular crude [oil].

"So, in that sense, I think they have a point.”

10:06 Tara Fair

Latvia’s Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš urged EU countries to keep passing progressively harsher energy sanctions on Russia, hours after leaders agreed to a near-embargo on Russian oil.

He said: “The stronger the sanctions, the quicker the war will end.

“Once again, I have argued from February 24 that we need immediate and full energy sanctions on oil, coal and gas.”

09:51 Tara Fair

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has dismissed the possibility that the EU would go after Russian gas next after sanctioning Russian oil.

He said: “Gas behaves very differently from oil in terms of security of supply — it is much easier to compensate for oil.

“Therefore, the gas embargo will also not be discussed in a next sanctions package.”

EU leaders late Monday agreed to ban Russian oil purchases, after negotiating a carve-out for pipeline oil that flows to landlocked countries.

09:47 Tara Fair

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has said the sanctions are "painful" for the EU, but is "nothing compared with the suffering in Ukraine.

Mr Nehammer said the oil sanctions are “a measure that will certainly be painful for the member states.”

“But we must be realistic.

“The pain we are suffering is nothing compared to what the Ukrainian people are suffering.”

09:37 Tara Fair

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has urged the EU to go after Russian gas in its next sanction package.

Ms Kallas said: “We discussed it briefly already yesterday, but gas is of course much more difficult than than oil already was.

“All the next sanctions will be more difficult because so far they have only hurt Russians.

“But now they’re also having effects on Europeans, and that’s why it’s much more politically difficult.

“I think that the gas has to be in the seventh package, but I’m realistic as well.

“I don’t think it will be there.”

09:16 Tara Fair

The Prime Minister of Belgium has said after banning most of Russian oil, the EU should stop sanctioning Russian energy.

Alexander De Croo argued Monday that the bloc had reached its limit in terms of sanctions.

He said: “In my view, this is the end of the road, especially in the area of sanctions in the field of energy.

“Besides, today's decisions should be about how we can better control energy prices so that we don't have the same problems this winter.”

“That should be the priority.”

08:59 Tara Fair

EU diplomat Josep Borrell has defended the bloc's deal to bar Russian oil with an exception for Hungary.

Mr Borrell argued that the concessions, which carved out Russian pipeline oil deliveries to landlocked countries, was a “reasonable way out to the discussion.”

Between the now-agreed-to ban on Russian oil delivered by ship and pledges from Germany and Poland to cut off Russian pipline oil, the EU will effectively eliminate 90 percent of Russian oil imports by year's end, Mr Borrell noted.

Asked whether the new package will actually weaken Russia, Mr Borrell said: “Certainly, we cannot prevent Russia to sell their oil to someone else.

"We're not so powerful. We are the most important client for Russia. They will have to look for another one. And certainly they will have to decrease the price.”

08:46 Tara Fair

The EU "should not stop here" with sanctions against Russia, according to Latvian Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš.

Mr Kariņš tweeted that a “significant step has been taken to hinder Russia’s ability to finance the brutal war,” but added that “we should not stop there – pressure on Russia should be continued.”

Significant step has been taken to hinder Russia's ability to finance the brutal war. Tonight we agreed on the sixth package of #EU sanctions including oil embargo. We should not stop there - pressure on Russia should be continued. #EUCO

08:33 Tara Fair

EU chief Ursula von der Leyen has said she is "very glad" that European leaders have reached a new agreement "in principle" on banning oil imports from Russia.

"I am very glad that the leaders were able to agree in principle on the sixth sanctions package," she said.

"Council should now be able to finalise a ban on almost 90 percent of all Russian oil imports by the end of the year. This is an important step forward. On the remaining 10 percent, on these we will soon return to the issue of these remaining 10 percent of pipeline oil."

I am glad that tonight leaders agreed in principle on the sixth sanctions package. This is an important step forward.

We also agreed to work on a mechanism to provide Ukraine with a new, exceptional macro-financial assistance package of up to \u20ac9 billion. https://t.co/La3bZl6JNp[https://t.co/La3bZl6JNp]

08:22 Tara Fair

Poland's Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki praised the leaders' decision on a Russian oil ban, stressing that without this agreement it would be “difficult to talk about an effective fight against Putina's war machine.”

“In spite of pessimistic announcements, our diplomacy and the diplomacy of the European Commission and a couple of other governments worked well,” he said.

08:08 Tara Fair

Volodymyr Zelensky has slammed the length of time it has taken the EU to agree on another sanctions package.

The last package was introduced nearly two months ago.

In an address to the Ukrainian people, he said he was grateful to Charles Michel, the President of the European Council, for "trying to find the necessary compromises" to make the measures possible.

He said: "Russia must feel a much higher price for its aggression.

"The key point is, of course, the oil. I believe that Europe will have to give up Russian oil and oil products in any case.

"Because this is about the independence of Europeans themselves from Russian energy weapons.

"And the sooner this happens, the more complete the abandonment of Russian oil will be, the greater the benefit will be for Europe itself in the end."

08:00 Tara Fair

French President Emmanuel Macron claims the fresh sanctions brought in by the EU shows the bloc's solidarity with Ukraine.

On Twitter, he said: "Russia has chosen to continue its war in Ukraine.

"Tonight, as Europeans, united and in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, we are taking new decisive sanctions.

"We have decided to stop importing 90 percent of Russian oil by the end of 2022."

Russia has chosen to continue its war in Ukraine. Tonight, as Europeans, united and in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, we are taking new decisive sanctions. We have decided to stop importing 90% of Russian oil by the end of 2022.

07:47 Tara Fair

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has claimed Viktor Orban "had a point" when he pushed back against the EU over a Russian oil ban.

The comment comes as the EU announced it had reached an agreement to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels.

Hungarian Prime Minister Mr Orban has been issued an exception for pipeline imports without a deadline and a provision that would allow Hungary to buy oil via shipments if pipeline supplies are cut off.

Dutch Prime Minister Mr Rutte said: “I think to have the whole picture we have to acknowledge that they are in a difficult position because they are using Russian oil. And because their refineries are only working on this particular crude [oil].

"So, in that sense, I think they have a point.

"It is true that [Orban] very much pleaded for an exemption temporarily for Hungary, but also for the Czechs and Slovaks.

"But at the same time, they have this issue where we always acknowledged that there was a problem with the fact [that] they are very much dependent on Russian oil.

"We agreed tonight that we'll come back to the next European Council.

"Of course, we have to assess how much time it takes for countries like Hungary to rebuild their refineries and what is reasonable in terms of the time-lapse.”

07:40 Tara Fair

The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, has announced an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

He said this will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia which is funding the war in Ukraine.

On Twitter, he said: "Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war."

The deal would see 90 percent of imports stop by the end of the year.

This sanctions package includes other hard-hitting measures:

de-Swifting the largest Russian bank Sberbank,

banning 3 more Russian state-owned broadcasters,

and sanctioning individuals responsible for war crimes in #Ukraine#EUCO

07:13 Tara Fair

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told EU leaders that 74 Ukrainian children have died since the last set of EU sanctions were imposed on Russia, as he urged them to swiftly approve a sixth round of sanctions.

EU leaders are meeting in Brussels on Monday and Tuesday with the main item on the agenda being the proposed ban on Russian oil.

In a videoconference, Mr Zelensky said he does not blame the EU for the atrocities occurring in Ukraine but hopes that they can come to a swift agreement on the next round of EU sanctions.

He said: "On April 8, the 44th day of this war, the EU’s fifth sanctions package was introduced. And 52 days have passed since then. What happened during this period?

“Then, as of April 8, there were 169 children on the list of those killed by the Russian occupiers in Ukraine. As of today, 243 children.

“Of course, I want you to understand me: I’m not blaming any of you.

“The blame for everything that is happening is only on the Russian state.

"But I am convinced that it is obvious to each and every one of you that there should be progress in sanctions for this aggression.

"And for us, it is very necessary. It will help us a lot!”

He added: “I am grateful to everyone who promotes the sixth sanctions package and tries to make it effective. However, unfortunately, for some reason, it is not there yet.”

07:11 Tara Fair

Good morning from London. I’m Tara Fair, I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU Summit. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: Tara.fair@reachplc.com

Twitter: @TaraFair_

22:05 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has asked EU leaders why Ukraine is still not recognised as a terrorist state.

During his address to EU leaders via videoconference, Mr Zelensky recalled European Council President Charles Michel's recent visit to Ukraine, during which Michel and Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal had to take shelter after a missile attack set off air raid sirens.

Mr Zelensky said: "Mr President Michel, you were recently in Odesa and were forced to take shelter due to a missile attack.

"Mr. President has felt for himself what I am talking about now. And if this was felt even at such level, why is Russia still not recognized as a terrorist state? A state sponsor of terrorism?”

21:21 Olivia Stringer

Irish Europe Minister Thomas Byrne has said he is reasonably confident that EU leaders could come to an agreement on Russian oil sanctions on Monday night.

Mr Byrne said he spoke with Irish leader Micheal Martin during a break in the summit and heard there was a “very constructive mood in the meeting” and “people want to get this done.”

Mr Byrne admitted that some countries "certainly have issues" with the proposals.

However, he insisted: “I think people want to get it done in the best possible way.”

20:23 Olivia Stringer

Discussions on what happens to pipeline oil should take place at leaders' level since the issue is very political, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban told EU leaders, according to two diplomats.

This remark contradicts those made by other EU officials who have insisted questions related to sanctions on Russian oil imports are mainly technical at this stage and could be resolved by specialist officials.

Mr Orban is still holding out against the current compromised package of sanctions - even though it includes an exemption on Russian oil coming via pipeline.

If Orban insists that the matter can only be resolved by leaders, the issue will have to wait until the next EU summit on June 22 and 23.

19:53 Olivia Stringer

74 Ukrainian children have died since the last set of EU sanctions on Russia, President Zelensky said in a videoconference with EU leaders.

Mr Zelensky called on the EU to act faster to impose further sanctions on Russia.

He said: “On April 8, the 44th day of this war, the EU’s fifth sanctions package was introduced. And 52 days have passed since then. What happened during this period?”

“Then, as of April 8, there were 169 children on the list of those killed by the Russian occupiers in Ukraine. As of today, 243 children,” the president told the EU chiefs.

“Then, as of April 8, 928 educational institutions were destroyed: kindergartens, schools, universities. As of today: 1,888.”

“Of course, I want you to understand me: I’m not blaming any of you.

“The blame for everything that is happening is only on the Russian state. But I am convinced that it is obvious to each and every one of you that there should be progress in sanctions for this aggression. And for us, it is very necessary. It will help us a lot!”

He added: “I am grateful to everyone who promotes the sixth sanctions package and tries to make it effective. However, unfortunately, for some reason, it is not there yet.”

19:13 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has urged EU leaders to approve the sixth round of sanctions against Russia in a video address to the summit, an EU official has said.

The official said that Zelensky also urged EU leaders to find a way to unblock exports of grain from Ukraine.

Zelensky warned that Putin is having success in Asia and Africa blaming the blockade on Ukraine.

He also noted that Ukraine has completed the questionnaire to become a candidate for EU membership and expects a swift response from the bloc.

18:51 Olivia Stringer

Danish energy company Ørsted today said it has no plans to pay for Russian gas in rubles as Russia has demanded.

A company statement read: “We have no legal obligation under the contract to do so, and we have repeatedly informed Gazprom Export that we will not do so.

The statement added that because of this, there is a risk that Gazprom will stop supplying gas to Ørsted.

It added: "In Ørsted’s view, this will be a breach of contract.”

18:11 Olivia Stringer

Greece’s Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has urged his colleagues to reopen a debate on capping the price of natural gas in order to lower EU energy prices.

He said: “All European member states are currently facing very high energy prices, the result of excessively high gas prices, prices which — as I have said many times — are not justified by the laws of supply and demand."

Mr Mitsotakis added that he would be bringing up Turkey’s “recent intense provocativeness and its impact on the stability of the Eastern Mediterranean", during the meeting.

Tensions over disputed territory have been recently flaring up between the two countries.

He said: “Greece faces these challenges with confidence and determination,” he said. “We are a country that has international law on its side, we have strong allies and of course, we have invested even more in our deterrent capacity so that we do not allow anyone to challenge our sovereignty and sovereign rights.”

17:52 Olivia Stringer

Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger said he will back the EU's proposed ban on Russian oil if Slovakia can obtain oil from its neighbours in case of supply disruptions.

He said: “We are fully supporting the alternatives for Russian oil and gas — on the other hand, we need the help of our partners.

“We've always been a reliable partner in transiting oil and gas.

“Now, in case of an emergency, we'll need the same from the partners around us who have access to the sea.”

Mr Heger added that he had spoken to Hungarian leader Viktor Orban ahead of the summit.

He said: “I expressed to him that unity is very important, I was trying to get him on board.

“I also … emphasized that the money given for Russian oil and gas is financing the Russian aggression in Ukraine.”

17:32 Olivia Stringer

Irish Premier Micheal Martin has said he urges Hungarian PM Viktor Orban to support the latest package of EU sanctions.

Mr Martin said he is fully supportive of the sanctions and will be using the EU summit to make his position clear.

17:22 Olivia Stringer

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has asked whether the EU has done all it could to stop the war in Ukraine.

He said: "We have to ask ourselves a question if we have done everything to end this war as soon as possible and end in a victorious way."

Mr Morawiecki said that Poland's "basic demand" is that the EU stops buying Russian oil.

He added: "We’re trying to build a consensus around it.

“We understand that there are countries that don’t have access to the sea and that’s why they are dependent on pipelines. We have special solutions for them.”

17:14 Olivia Stringer

Dutch gas trader GasTerra announced its refusal to comply with Russia's decree mandating that Russian gas payments be transferred to rubles via Russian bank accounts.

A company statement read: “In response to GasTerra’s decision, Gazprom declared to discontinue supply with effect from 31 May 2022.

“The cessation of supply by Gazprom means that, between now and 1 October 2022, the date on which the contract ends, approximately 2 billion [cubic meters] of contracted gas will not be delivered … GasTerra has repeatedly urged Gazprom to respect the contractually agreed payment structure and supply obligations, but to no avail.”

The Netherlands’ Minister for Energy and Climate Rob Jetten said “the government understands GasTerra’s decision not to agree to Gazprom’s unilaterally imposed payment terms. This decision has no consequences for the physical delivery of gas to Dutch households. GasTerra has bought extra gas in preparation for this situation. Therefore, it is expected that there will be no consequences for physical deliveries of gas to the Dutch business sector either. However, the government will continue to monitor the situation closely in the coming period.”

16:58 Olivia Stringer

If the latest package of EU sanctions on Russia does not include a Russian oil embargo, it will be hard to trigger other elements of the package, a senior European Commission official said on Monday.

The official said: "It is true - if there was no agreement on it either today or in the next days ... we would have difficulties with the rest of the package.

"But since we're confident that over time there will be a solution, I don't see a reason to think that one could split it or it would even make sense to split it."

16:34 Olivia Stringer

The future of Hungarian families is "at stake" due to the proposed ban on Russian energy, Hungarian President Viktor Orban said in a Facebook post.

16:25 Olivia Stringer

It is important that there is both fairness and competitiveness in the EU, President of the European Commission Ursula vo der Leyen has said.

Speaking ahead of the meeting of the European Council, she said: "It is in fact very important that there is fairness for everyone as well as competitiveness for everyone. Esp when it comes to the issue of oil and the issue of Russian oil. And this is exactly the issue we haven’t solved yet.

Different proposed solutions are on the table. But we haven’t reached this step, that we are able to take a joint position. I am confident that we will be able to find a solution. Whether during the council - the probability isn’t very high- or afterwards, one thing is clear: we will revisit the issue of replacements for oil via the sea route, which has already been clarified, and the issue of pipeline oil from Russia.

16:07 Olivia Stringer

Latvian Prime Minister Arturs Krisjanis Karins has said that talking with Putin makes little sense as he is not interested in making concessions.

Speaking ahead of today's EU Council summit, he said that if the EU continues to supply Ukraine with weapons and isolate Russia's economy and Putin realises he is losing to war, that is when he will talk.

Krisjanis Karins added that he has no sympathy with Hungarian Prime Minister Orban stating that a ban on Russian oil would be hard for Hungary as he said a ban would be difficult for Latvia as well.

15:55 Olivia Stringer

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has stressed the importance of moving away from Russian fossil fuels.

Speaking ahead of the EU council meeting, she said: "It is very important and in the Union we agree that we need to get out of fossil fuels from Russia. First, it is bad for our climate but secondly and much more importantly it fills Putin’s war chest and therefore we have to do everything to get rid of the fossil fuels from Russia.

"This means on the one hand we have to be independent, on the other sanctions against fossil fuels. We have already done so when it comes to coal, we are now working on oil, but above all else find other reliable providers worldwide. For this we are building a common purchasing platform, which is a good thing.

"And the most important topic: massive investments in renewable energy. It is the future, makes us independent, creates good jobs here in Europe and they are good for the climate."

15:43 Olivia Stringer

Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda has suggested using the assets of sanctioned Russian oligarchs to pay for the rebuilding of Ukraine.

He added that the EU must use "all the instruments in our hands" to stop Putin.

He said he hopes the EU will come to an agreement on the current package of sanctions today and can move on to the seventh package.

15:29 Olivia Stringer

Finnish PM Sanna Marin has said that the EU needs to be united over Russian sanctions and said it is important that Russian sanctions are hard enough that they affect Russia's economy.

She added that Finland is on board with all of the sanctions the EU has proposed.

15:23 Olivia Stringer

The EU is getting too bogged down with the problem of Russian oil imports and is forgetting the bigger picture, Latvia's Prime Minister has said.

Speaking ahead of today's EU summit Krišjānis Kariņš said:" “We're getting a little bogged down in all of the details and we're forgetting the big picture,” he said. “The Ukrainian people are fighting for their independence.”

“What we’re dealing with is not normal politics, each country's self-interest: We are in a situation where a European country is being attacked.”

15:11 Olivia Stringer

The EU will find a compromise on the proposed embargo on Russian oil,Luxembourg's Prime Minister Xavier Bettel said on Monday.

Speaking to reporters ahead of today's European council summit, he said: "We will always find a compromise. There are still talks going on. As long as there are talks, I am hopeful.

15:07 Olivia Stringer

Good afternoon, I'm Olivia Stringer and I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU council summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: olivia.stringer@reachplc.com

Twitter: @Livstringer_

14:46 Francesca Edwards

Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins criticised leaders saying the EU is "forgetting the big pictures".

NR Karins"It's only money, the Ukrainians are paying with their lives. "We can and we must support them, if only out of self-interest because only when Russia is defeated can we in Europe feel safe."

14:39 Francesca Edwards

Asked what the future will look like with a Russian oil ban, Olaf Scholz said "you shouldn’t count your chickens before they hatch."

The German Chancellor added: It looks like everybody is discussing this constructively and well with each other.. but what I perceive is that there are talks which are led with the willingness to come to an understanding and this is a good thing."

14:32 Francesca Edwards

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said it is "important" for him that today marks a "special fund" being formed for the German Armed forces.

He said: " It is a good thing that we are all coming together here in Brussels to do what we have been showing in the past weeks, which is to act united and to discuss our policies together which we are developing against the Russian aggressions, against the Russian attack on Ukraine.

"This is a good sign that Europe has so far managed to stand together like this and I am very confident that we will continue to do this in the future.

"Something that is especially important for me is that today will also be the day on which it can be said that in Germany a special fund for our Bundeswehr is formed

14:23 Francesca Edwards

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has blamed the "irresponsible behaviour of the commission" for the issues surrounding banning Russian oil imports.

Mr Orban said leaders are in a "difficult position" blaming the bloc.

"What is a problem for us, and why we have to fight today, is that if something happens to the Russian oil coming by pipeline... if there is no oil coming, then we should have the right for purchases by sea," Orban said. "This is the guarantee we need."

14:10 Francesca Edwards

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said he expects the European Union to reach a consensus on an oil embargo against Russia, but did not give a time frame when it might happen.

"Everything I hear sounds like there could be a consensus - and sooner or later there will be", he told reporters as he arrived for an EU summit in Brussels.

He added: "I strongly believe that we will be able to discuss a good solution together today or tomorrow. I have already reported that everything here points to us coming together, nobody can predict whether this will in fact be the case but everything I can hear points to there possibly being agreement and sooner or later there will be agreement."

14:07 Francesca Edwards

European leaders are "not there yet" on reaching an agreement for the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, Ursula von der Leyen said.

The European Commission President said the bloc has "one success and this is the solidarity of the European Union".

Speaking at the EU summit Ms von der Leyen said they have "basically solved all the issued but one" citing the issues surrounding banning Russian oil.

She added "I have not too high expectations that we're going to solve within the next 48 hours, but they're after my call is very clearly on the member states. The key to success was and is solidarity with Ukraine and unity in the European Union."

13:49 Francesca Edwards

European Union member states should be able to reach an agreement on an import ban for Russian oil under certain conditions on Monday, Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said, several hours before the start of the summit.

"I think it will pass with certain derogations", Petkov said about plans for an embargo on Russian oil imports.

"Overall it should pass, depending on some individual characteristics and criteria that member states may have."

13:28 Francesca Edwards

European leaders have arrived in Brussels for the two-day summit.

The member states are aiming to reach an agreement on banning Russian oil.

"The European Council agrees that the sixth package of sanctions against Russia will cover crude oil, as well as petroleum products, delivered from Russia into Member States, with a temporary exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline," the latest draft conclusions, seen by Reuters, said.

"The European Council therefore urges the Council to finalise and adopt it without delay, ensuring fair competition and a level playing field in the EU Single Market, and solidarity among Member States in case of sudden interruptions of supply," the draft said.

13:00 Francesca Edwards

Spain is breaking EU ranks as one of its MEPs has tabled an "alternative plan" that could deal a hammer blow to Vladimir Putin.

Spanish MEP Luis Garicano has put a plan forward to punish Moscow.

He claims his plan is more effective than wasting time mulling over tactics to try and get Hungarian President Viktor Orban on board.

Mr Garicano slammed the EU in an op-ed for Politico entitled “Putting an end to Europe’s hide-and-seek: the oil tariff”, arguing that the bloc is “prolonging Putin’s war”.

READ MORE HERE.

12:36 Francesca Edwards

Volodymyr Zelensky will directly address EU leaders on Monday.

It comes amid his continued calls for the bloc to impose more sanctions on Russia and expand its military support to Ukraine.

Over the weekend the Ukrainian president said the country's success "depends on the partners, on their readiness to provide Ukraine with everything necessary to defend freedom".

He continued: "And I expect good news on this already next week".

12:19 Francesca Edwards

Ukraine accused the EU of "hypocrisy to a great extent" over its failure to agree on more sanctions against Russia.

A senior official said the EU should return to its core roots and principles.

“Basically what we are doing is we are now bringing the EU back to where it started as a peace project,” the senior Ukrainian diplomat said. “So to generate peace, to generate security, in a broader sense, they [should] take responsibility.”

Ukraine continues to call for more sanctions against Russia and for the EU to provide military support.

12:00 Francesca Edwards

European leaders will not decide on imposing a cap on gas prices on Monday, the European Commissioner for Economy said.

"If this is agreed among member states, the Commission will act very quickly to analyse this possibility," Paolo Gentiloni told reporters at the Foreign Press Association in Rome.

He said it would be difficult to make any predictions regarding the timing of a decision.

11:55 Francesca Edwards

Good afternoon I'm Francesca Edwards, I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU Summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: francesca.edwards@reachplc.com

Twitter: @FrankieLEdwards

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220530ei5u002mq


Council of Slovak Exporters Publishes Overview of Sanctions Imposed on Russia and Belarus
162 字
2022 年 6 月 3 日 08:54 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, June 3 (SITA) - The Council of Slovak Exporters has published a summary of economic sanctions slapped on Russia and Belarus titled “Navigating the Business Environment in the Current Climate of Sanctions”. The almost 50-page-long document offers a consolidated and complex overview of the current sanction mechanisms against Russia and Belarus in connection with the war in Ukraine. The council informs that the paper is available in Slovak and English on its website.

“Slovak enterprises are asking us various questions, including what they can or cannot within their business activities and exports. The development of sanctions and retaliatory measures is extremely dynamic, and yesterday already the sixth package was approved. Only sanctions adopted at the EU level are commonly communicated here, but we have to consider also sanctions imposed by the US and the UK or Russia’s retaliatory measures,” head of the council Lukas Parizek explained.

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020220603ei630002x


Slovak refiner Slovnaft warns of impending fuel shortage in Central Europe]]
Michal Hudec
295 字
2022 年 6 月 6 日 06:23 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Slovak oil refiner Slovnaft says it cannot guarantee fuel supplies to its traditional export destinations in Central Europe under the terms of the EU’s new Russia sanction package, the company has said.

Last week EU leaders agreed[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-leaders-back-partial-russian-oil-ban/] on a Russian oil embargo for oil coming via the Druzhba pipeline, a condition pushed for by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and backed by  Slovak Economy Minister Richard Sulík who argued that the two country’s need more time to adjust because of their high dependence on Russian imports.

However, according to the embargo’s full text published on Friday (3 June), the three-year exemption will not cover exports to other EU countries.

While Slovnaft, a subsidiary of Hungarian fossil fuel giant MOL, can continue refining Russian oil it cannot be exported to other member states after February 2023, though exports to Czechia can continue until December 2023.

According to the company’s leadership, this will force Slovnaft to import its oil from other countries from next year if its refinery is to run at full capacity, which will have radical negative effects on fuel supplies in the region.

“We will not be able to guarantee market supply in the Central European region. The current wording of the sanctions will not allow us to export key products to our traditional markets such as the Czech Republic, Austria and Poland,” said Slovnaft spokesman Anton Molnár.

“The current sanctions proposal does not give Slovnaft the originally requested three-year timeframe to make technological adjustments and logistical support for the import and processing of alternative crude oil. We are not aware of the reasons for changing the three-year period to eight months,” Molnár added.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220606ei660000n


Turkey’s Nordic demands spark Western Balkan déjà vu]]
EURACTIV Network
1195 字
2022 年 6 月 6 日 07:34 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

Before you start reading today’s edition of the Capitals, feel free to have a look at the article “Third-party security guarantor could help unblock Ukraine’s grain exports[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/third-party-security-guarantor-could-help-unblock-ukraines-grain-exports/]“.

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

Today’s edition is powered by NESTE

Waste can help power sustainable mobility

We need to reduce transport emissions and we need to reduce the amount of waste that cannot be recycled. What if each of these problems was actually the solution to the other? We call it Waste-to-Wheels.

Learn more[https://eurac.tv/9W1i].

In today’s news from the Capitals:

Turkey’s move to pressure Sweden and Finland into extraditing alleged “terrorists” they harbour is a method Ankara used for several years against countries in the Western Balkans, including EU candidate countries, under the idle gaze of Brussels.

While Turkey wields investment and aid as a sword of Damocles over the heads of poorer, less powerful countries, when it comes to the Nordic duo, it is their NATO application filed in May that hangs in the balance.

Meanwhile, the similarities between Putin and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, particularly in terms of “crude blackmail tactics” are being noted, as is the need to protect EU borders from revisionist and violent threats from whichever neighbour. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/turkeys-nordic-demands-spark-western-balkan-deja-vu/]

///

BERLIN

German rail overcrowded after €9 ticket launch. Germany’s trains and railway stations were plagued with crowds following the launch on 1 June of the €9 universal travel pass meant to help consumers battle rising prices. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/german-rail-overcrowded-after-e9-ticket-launch/]

/// 

PARIS

‘Submission to Russia’: Macron slams challengers ahead of June elections. French President Emmanuel Macron criticised his opponents, leftist Jean-Luc Mélenchon and far-right Marine Le Pen, labelling their political projects as being about “disorder and submission,” in his first press interview since his re-election on Friday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/submission-to-russia-macron-slams-challengers-ahead-of-june-elections/]

///

VIENNA

Austria releases oil stocks after refinery malfunction. A technical issue at oil giant OMV’s Schwechat refinery on Saturday forced the government to release strategic gasoline stocks while OMV considers what to do about its investments in Russia. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/austria-releases-oil-stocks-after-refinery-malfunction/]

UK AND IRELAND

DUBLIN 

War paves way for new EU ‘defence format’, Ukraine’s deputy PM says. Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Olga Stefanishyna has called for an ambitious agenda that could include “a new security and defence policy of the EU”. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/war-paves-way-for-new-eu-defence-format-ukraines-deputy-pm-says/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS 

STOCKHOLM

Erdogan wants Swedish PM to fire defence minister. Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson should dismiss Defence Minister Peter Hullqvist, said Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the newspaper Expressen reported on Saturday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/erdogan-wants-swedish-pm-to-fire-defence-minister/]

///

HELSINKI

Finnish government lends helping hand to transport companies. According to a proposal for a new temporary act announced by the government on Friday, a fixed-term fuel subsidy could be given to transport companies struggling with rising fuel prices. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/finnish-government-lends-helping-hand-to-transport-companies/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME

Italy’s ruling parties divided over minimum wage. Ruling parties are divided over introducing a statutory minimum wage in response to rising inflation as negotiations on the EU Directive on adequate minimum wages enter the final round. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/italys-ruling-parties-divided-over-minimum-wage/]

///

MADRID

Spain to welcome 2,000 Ukrainian refugees from Moldova. Spain is willing to accommodate 2,000 Ukrainian refugees from Moldova, Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez said during a visit to Chişinău. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spain-to-welcome-2000-ukrainian-refugees-from-moldova/]

VISEGRAD 

BRATISLAVA

Slovak refiner Slovnaft warns of impending fuel shortage in Central Europe. Slovak oil refiner Slovnaft says it cannot guarantee fuel supplies to its traditional export destinations in Central Europe under the terms of the EU’s new Russia sanction package, the company has said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/slovak-refiner-slovnaft-warns-of-impending-fuel-shortage-in-central-europe/]

///

PRAGUE

Czech capital demands relocation of refugees to other regions. Even though the number of Ukrainian refugees registering with Czech immigration police or requesting temporary protection is falling, some regions are overburdened. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czech-capital-demands-relocation-of-refugees-to-other-regions/]

///

WARSAW 

Polish motorists block petrol station in protest of high fuel prices. Protests began in Poland as fuel prices reached historical highs, and experts predict further rises due to the EU oil embargo on Russia, local media report. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/polish-motorists-block-petrol-station-in-protest-of-high-fuel-prices/]

///

BUDAPEST

Government bars Hungarian municipalities, SMEs from energy price cap. Municipalities and small to medium enterprises (SMEs) will no longer be able to enjoy the capped utility bills now exclusively available to households, Minister of Economic Development Márton Nagy announced Sunday morning on the public radio. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/government-bars-hungarian-municipalities-smes-from-energy-price-cap/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA | SKOPJE

Sofia condemns burning of Bulgarian cultural centre in North Macedonia. Bulgarian authorities condemned what they have called the deliberate burning of a Bulgarian cultural centre in North Macedonia on Saturday morning. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/sofia-condemns-burning-of-bulgarian-cultural-centre-in-north-macedonia/]

/// 

BUCHAREST

Romanian businesses call for country’s ‘total territorial reorganisation’. Romania urgently needs a total territorial reorganisation to reduce budget expenditures, according to the conclusions of the Chamber of Commerce following a work meeting with employers and professional organisations. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/romanian-businesses-call-for-countrys-total-territorial-reorganisation/]

/// 

ZAGREB

Sunken Adriatic platform leaks gas, Greenpeace Croatia warns. A gas rig that sank in the northern Adriatic in 2020 may be leaking gas, possibly methane, Greenpeace Croatia warned over the weekend. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/sunken-adriatic-platform-leaks-gas-greenpeace-croatia-warns/]

///

BELGRADE 

Serbia, Russia agree to gas deal in principle, Lavrov says. Serbian President  Aleksandar Vučić and Russian President Vladimir Putin have discussed the terms of gas supply arrangements and reached an agreement in principle, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the Bosnian Serb entity TV on Sunday in an interview. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/serbia-russia-agree-to-gas-deal-in-principle-lavrov-says/]

///

EU sanctions fallout: Serbia to stop receiving Russian oil via Adriatic pipeline. Oil company Naftna industrija Srbije (NIS), of which 56.15% of the share capital is owned by Russia’s Gazprom Neft, will no longer receive Russian crude oil from the Adriatic oil pipeline JANAF following the EU’s latest set of Russia sanctions, the energy ministry announced Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/eu-sanctions-fallout-serbia-to-stop-receiving-russian-oil-via-adriatic-pipeline/]

///

SARAJEVO 

Bosnian Serb leader plans to meet Lavrov, Putin. Secessionist Bosnian Serb leader Milorad Dodik plans to meet Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Belgrade on Tuesday and President Vladimir Putin on 17 June in Moscow, istraga.ba reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bosnian-serb-leader-plans-to-meet-lavrov-putin/]

///

TIRANA

Albania elects ex-military chief of staff as president. Bajram Begaj, the former chief of staff of the Armed Forces, will be Albania’s next president – the seventh following the fall of Communism – after 78 MPs voted in his favour Saturday afternoon. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/albania-elects-ex-military-chief-of-staff-as-president/]

Agenda

* EU: Commission Vice-President Margaritis Schinas meets UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in Washington.

* European Parliament plenary session begins.

* Agriculture Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski addresses the European Parliament plenary session in Strasbourg for the 60th anniversary of Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).

* European Parliament President Roberta Metsola meets European Commission President Ursula Von der Leyen.

* Germany: Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock visits Islamabad.

* Austria: UN nuclear watchdog IAEA holds the quarterly Board of Governors meeting.

* Serbia: Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov visits Belgrade.

* Slovenia: Austrian Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg will be in Slovenia as the first foreign senior official to visit after the new government was sworn in.

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Vlad Makszimov, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Eleonora Vasques, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220606ei6600004


Economy and Finacie
Kollar: We Should Have Insisted on Three-year Exemption from Russian Oil Embargo
245 字
2022 年 6 月 6 日 12:25 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, June 6 (TASR) - Slovakia should have firmly insisted on a three-year exemption when the EU embargo on Russian oil imports was being approved, as the current wording of the sanction package against Russia, okayed in Brussels among others by Premier Eduard Heger (OLaNO), damages Slovakia, Parliamentary Chair Boris Kollar (We Are Family) told a news conference on Monday.

"As we could have negotiated three years, we should have firmly insisted on three years. In my view, it was very unfortunate, and I firmly believe that it won't happen again in the future," said Kollar, adding that he would be pleased if 150 MPs, and not only the economy minister and premier, decided on such key issues.

The EU-sanction package introduces an embargo on Russian oil imports, leaving in place the option of importing oil through the Druzhba pipeline until the technical problems of refineries are resolved. However, a ban on the import of Russian oil products to EU-member states is a thorny problem for Slovak refinery Slovnaft. The refinery exports a major part of its production and would have to reduce its output below the technological minimum following this ban. It would thus have much less time than the originally proposed three years to change its technology, and there is a risk of a possible shortage of some products associated with further price growth.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220606ei66001e1


Schedules, Summaries
SUMMARY - Monday, June 6, 2022 - 5 p.m.
373 字
2022 年 6 月 6 日 15:00 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
BRATISLAVA - The 'We Are Family' coalition party has no problem cooperating with the extra-parliamentary Voice-SD and other non-parliamentary or opposition parties in the autumn elections, party head and Parliamentary Chair Boris Kollar said on Monday, adding that it may happen that a partnership with the far-right LSNS or extra-parliamentary Republic will be established.

BRATISLAVA - Slovakia should have firmly insisted on a three-year exemption when the EU embargo on Russian oil imports was being approved, as the current wording of the sanction package against Russia, okayed in Brussels among others by Premier Eduard Heger (OLaNO), damages Slovakia, Parliamentary Chair Boris Kollar (We Are Family) told a news conference on Monday.

BRATISLAVA - Should President Zuzana Caputova veto the inflation aid package for families, We Are Family MPs will support it during a repeated vote in Parliament, We Are Family head Boris Kollar claimed on Monday.

PEZINOK - Lubos F. [name abbreviated due to legal reasons], considered to be a Nitra crime boss, was given a suspended sentence of three years with five years of probation by the Specialised Criminal Court on Monday.

BRATISLAVA - Prosecutor-General Maros Zilinka has filed a protest motion against a certain regulation drawn up by the village of Varin in Zilina region, calling on it to change the name of its street named after Jozef Tiso - the president of the Slovak wartime fascist state in 1939-45.

BRATISLAVA - Average gross salaries in Slovakia grew in all 19 monitored sectors of the economy in the first quarter of this year, but real salary growth was only seen in seven of them, as consumer prices grew rapidly as well, the Statistics Office reported on Monday.

TRNAVA - Two people died and three were injured in a traffic accident on the old road between Trnava and Piestany (Trnava region) on Monday, the Firefighter and Emergency Corps (HaZZ) told TASR, adding that in the accident, a lorry with a car crashed down from an overpass to the road below.

BRATISLAVA - The police have pressed charges of possessing drugs against a 25-year-old Austrian who attempted to intoxicate two women with drinks containing ecstasy at a disco in Bratislava on Saturday.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220606ei66001up


Slovak Press Today
1378 字
2022 年 6 月 6 日 07:27 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, June 6 (SITA) -

COALITION: Coalition MP Gyorgy Gyimesi (OLaNO) has urged Economy Minister Richard Sulik (SaS) to resign. As he told Friday’s news conference, the reason is demonstrable extensive economic damage related to the latest sanction package adopted by the European Commission. “Richard Sulik publicly slashed Slovnaft’s throat; Richard Sulik caused Slovakia extreme damage with his amateurish approach and indolence,” the MP announced, adding that Sulik should not be at the ministry at all. He stressed that although it was Prime Minister Eduard Heger who negotiated in Brussels measures targeting the trade in Russian oil, all documents were prepared by the Economy Ministry. “This is Richard Sulik’s doing, do not drag Premier Heger here,” Gyimesi maintained. In his words, Slovakia had a chance to negotiate at the EU level such conditions that would not harm the refinery Slovnaft, Slovak citizens, and the state budget. Gyimesi argues that without intervention, Slovnaft may shut down in eighteen months as the production will not pay. “Either the factory will be closed down, or we will pay 2.2-2.3 euros per liter,” he estimated. The MP also thinks that due to this step, Slovakia has most likely lost an investment up to 1.5 billion euros in Slovnaft. Economy Minister and leader of the co-ruling party Freedom and Solidarity (SaS) Richard Sulik responded that MP Gyimesi does not understand the issue. “If he criticizes me and calls for my resignation, he should first study the facts. It was Prime Minister Eduard Heger who agreed to the embargo at the summit, so, ultimately, Gyimesi slams the prime minister,” Sulik added. He reminded that a few days ago, Finance Minister Igor Matovic accused him of advocating Slovnaft. “Now, his right-hand man accuses me of harming Slovnaft,” the minister commented. Sulik claims that he directly consulted with the premier the position of the Slovak Republic which the Economy Ministry sent. “If he has the feeling that I am not doing my job properly, he can dismiss me,” Sulik concluded. According to Premier Eduard Heger, Slovakia will not be left without oil. He negotiated for Slovakia in Brussels that oil will flow from Russia until we have a full-fledged alternative. "At the negotiations at the level of leaders, the prime minister follows the negotiations of respective ministers, in this case the Economy Ministry. And completes negotiations that have been left open at the level of ministers," reads Heger's stance. He added that each ministry should act in such a way that it is always in Slovakia's interests. For the time being he does not know that they would have been acting to the detriment of our interests. SME-5 (4.6.) PLUS-6,7 (4.6.) PRAVDA-1,8,9 (6.6.) NC-4,5 (6.6.)

OIL: The embargo on Russian oil imports, imposed within the sixth package of sanctions targeting the Russian Federation, will have a direct impact on Slovakia, the Economy Ministry admits. The department explains that the ban will have a negative influence not only on the price of motor fuels in Slovakia and neighboring countries, but also on the volumes of petroleum products. “We perceive the concerns presented by Slovnaft as well as the fact that of all EU member states, Slovakia will face the strongest negative impact of restrictions. Given the declared solidarity, we therefore expect special access to resources within REPowerEU. In the case of VAT on motor fuels, the Finance Ministry, under whose scope of authority this area falls, has a room now to open at the EU level the question of reduced VAT rates on motor fuels,” the ministry's press department commented. Prime Minister Eduard Heger led the negotiations on behalf of Slovakia at the summit. “Unfortunately, it was not possible to enforce a three-year transition period for non-application of sanctions on oil transported via pipelines proposed by the Slovak Economy Ministry, whereby the approved version is ‘the softest’ for us among the remaining options,” the ministry added. The embargo on the imports of Russian oil and petroleum products will take effect eight months after the sanctions enter into force. First, the transition period will be free of restriction. Later, a ban on Russian oil shipped by tankers will apply, and in the ten following months Slovakia will be allowed to produce motor fuels and petroleum products from Russian oil shipped via pipelines and export these products to the Czech Republic. Once the 18-month period is over, oil sent via pipelines can be used only for motor fuel production for the domestic market. PLUS-1,6,7 (4.6.) NC-4,5 (4.6.)

TAXES: The embargo on Russian oil is "shuffling cards" in European energy markets, including the Slovak market. Slovakia’s refinery Slovnaft is warning about the problems that the ban on raw materials will cause. The security of supplies to Slovakia will not be guaranteed due to sanctions. However, a shortage of fuels is not the only problem that the sixth package of sanctions will cause. Slovnaft's exit from Russian oil will also have an impact on the oil tax announced by Finance Minister Igor Matovic. He intended to use this tax to finance a part of the pro-family package. However, if Slovnaft cuts down production and switches to a commodity of another origin, the state secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Karol Galek, says that it is important to think about what will actually be taxed. "The question is what fate will the oil tax have now for a company that is likely to reduce production as well as profits," he said. The Ministry of Finance stated that it would evaluate the situation according to the development. Many analysts also agree that the megalomaniacal idea of Igor Matovic may really face an obstacle in the future, if it will have anything to tax at all. "This situation clearly shows that reliance on short-term tax sources is irresponsible," says INESS analyst Radovan Durana. HN-1,2

POLL: If the parliamentary elections were held at the end of May, VOICE-SD party would win with 20.3 percent. SMER-SD would take the second place (14.9 percent), followed by Freedom and Solidarity (11.1 percent), showed the poll conducted by the Focus agency for the TV Markiza. The Progressive Slovakia would take the fourth place (9.1 percent), followed by OLaNO (8.1 percent), Republic (6.8 percent), KDH (6.5 percent) and We Are Family (5.6 percent). The Alliance (3.7 percent), Slovak National Party (3.7 percent), People's Party (3.1 percent), LSNS (2.8 percent), Good Choice (1.4 percent), Hungarian Forum (1.1 percent) and Together (1.1 percent) would not pass the electoral threshold. HN-12 SME-2 (6.6.) N-3 PRAVDA-2,3 (6.6.) PLUS-3 (6.6.) NC-4,5 (6.6.)

PROSECUTOR: Businessman Ladislav B. has been indicted in another criminal matter. Based on publicized information, at stake reportedly are VAT refunds in connection with the Bonaparte apartment complex. “I confirm the submission of the given charges on June 2,” Prosecutor with the Special Prosecutor’s Office Jan Santa said. He did not offer details because he is undertaking criminal proceedings acts. In August 2021, the Bratislava V District Court found the businessman guilty of the crime of tax and levy evasion but did not impose a total and aggregate penalty. The judge found the sentence handed down by the Bratislava II District Court in 2018 and upheld by the court of appeal to be sufficient. The prosecution claimed that Ladislav B. filed a VAT return for February 2013 on behalf of a company whereby he concealed a taxable transaction in the form of the transfer of real estate, specifically apartments in the Five Star Residence housing complex. He thus reduced VAT by 200,000 euros. The Bratislava Regional Court confirmed the five-year prison sentence in March 2019, which the Bratislava II District Court handed down in November 2018. It also decided on the forfeiture of his property. Ladislav B. was found guilty of tax and levy evasion. SME-5 (4.6.) PLUS-4 (4.6.) NC-5 (4.6.)

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020220606ei6600001


Schedules, Summaries
MORNING NEWS HIGHLIGHTS - Tuesday, June 7 - 9 a.m.
430 字
2022 年 6 月 7 日 06:56 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
TASR brings a quick morning overview of the most important events seen in Slovakia on the previous day (Monday, June 6):

BRATISLAVA - The unemployment rate decreased by 0.7 percentage points (p.p.) in the first quarter of this year when compared to the same period of 2021, falling to 6.4 percent, the Statistics Office reported on Monday.

The number of unemployed amounted to 174,900 in 1Q22, going down in all regions. However, the number of long-term unemployed continued to grow.

BRATISLAVA - The municipal and regional elections will be held on October 29, House Chair Boris Kollar (We Are Family) officially announced on Monday.

Speaking at a press conference, Kollar claimed that the date of the elections near to the All Souls Day public holiday was the outcome of an agreement within the coalition. According to the House Chair, many people travel far from their permanent residences for the holidays, and it's quite likely that they wouldn't be willing to do so two weekends in a row. The coalition thus hopes to see a higher voter turnout because of this.

BRATISLAVA - Slovakia should have firmly insisted on a three-year exemption when the EU embargo on Russian oil imports was being approved, as the current wording of the sanction package against Russia, okayed in Brussels among others by Premier Eduard Heger (OLaNO), damages Slovakia, Parliamentary Chair Boris Kollar (We Are Family) told a news conference on Monday.

"As we could have negotiated three years, we should have firmly insisted on three years. In my view, it was very unfortunate, and I firmly believe that it won't happen again in the future," said Kollar, adding that he would be pleased if 150 MPs, and not only the economy minister and premier, decided on such key issues.

BRATISLAVA - I'll present a proposal for a ten-percent increase in salaries in education at the Government meeting on Wednesday (June 8), together with a proposal to tax gambling, alcohol, Russian oil and increase the regulated levy, Finance Minister Igor Matovic (OLaNO) said following a meeting with representatives of the Slovak Education and Science Labour Union Association (OZPSaV) on Monday.

BRATISLAVA - The Freedom and Solidarity (SaS) party rejects the blackmailing practices of Finance Minister Igor Matovic (OLaNO), maintaining that he takes teachers hostage and connects them with higher taxes, SaS spokesman Ondrej Sprlak told TASR on Monday, adding that they're repeatedly vetoing higher taxes and call on Prime Minister Eduard Heger (OLaNO) to finally step in.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220607ei670005l


Slovak Press Today
2375 字
2022 年 6 月 7 日 07:31 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, June 7 (SITA) -

TAXES: Finance Minister Igor Matovic (OLaNO) plans to present a draft bill to the Cabinet on Wednesday, June 8, which will increase taxes on alcohol, gambling and rich companies and at the same time give a 10-percent pay hike to public administration employees. He announced the move after negotiations with leaders of the Trade Union of Education and Science in Slovakia on Monday. The chairman of the Trade Union of Workers in Education and Science of Slovakia Pavel Ondek noted that the protest to improve conditions in education, which they plan for June 15, will not be canceled yet. Ondek said they had discussed several points. "The first point concerned a demand to raise tariffs for all education staff by 10 percent," he said. According to him, this measure requires 145 million euros. As the tax collection increased and 370 million euros flowed into the state budget, trade unionists asked the ministry to finance this increase with this money. "We have not reached any particular agreement on this point," Ondek said, adding that he was notified that it would depend on an increase in taxes on gambling, alcohol, tobacco, wealthy or refinery Slovnaft. Matovic stated that it must go through together and "one pleasant part cannot be taken out of it". He was referring to the SaS and Education Minister Branislav Grohling who are calling for higher salaries in education, but refuse to raise taxes. Grohling responded that Matovic was taking teachers hostages and was making a show of their salaries "to cover up the deterioration of public finances." "If hasty packages for 1.3 billion euros were not adopted, salaries could have already been raised by 10%. Salaries in education can be raised easily thanks to higher tax collection and there is no need for dubious taxes on oil or alcohol whose revenues cannot be predicted by anyone," Grohling said. The SaS reiterated that it rejects blackmailing. "The SaS party has repeatedly vetoed higher taxes, and it will do so again this time. We are calling on Prime Minister Eduard Heger to finally intervene," SaS said. SME-3 PRAVDA-8 PLUS-3 NC-5

SOCIAL: Employers believe that President Zuzana Caputova should not sign the anti-inflation package approved by the House. They met with the head of state on Monday. As they emphasized, they do not view it as a real anti-inflation package, they are concerned about its budgetary implications and are also critical of the way it was approved. If, despite the president's disapproval, MPs repeatedly endorse the changes, they want the head of state ponder bringing the package to the Constitutional Court. As Miroslav Kiralvarga, President of the National Union of Employers, emphasized, companies across Europe are not opposed to social packages that would help citizens get compensated for their difficult situation. "We can agree that we do not represent opposition to a package that would be created by relevant government officials, experts and would be passed by the tripartite," he said, emphasizing the need to comply with legislative procedures. Alexej Beljajev, the head of the Association of Industrial Unions and Transportation (APZD) added they do not claim the right to decide whether a family should receive 200 or 100 euros, but what they have attacked is the current "raping" of the legislative process. "We would like the law-making process to return to where it should be, for discussion in the Economic and Social Council and through due proceedings through parliament," he said. In addition to employers, representatives of pensioners also took part in the meeting. According to Valeria Pokorna, deputy chairwoman of the Slovak Union of Pensioners, it is the pensioners who have completely dropped out of this aid package. PRAVDA-1,2,3 PLUS-2

SOCIAL: The subsistence level per adult person is to increase by 7.5% from July 1 this year, i.e., by 16.36 euros to 234.42 euros. This follows from the Labor and Social Affairs Ministry's draft measure that the department has submitted for comments. Several social benefits or tax benefits are linked to the increase in the subsistence level. From the beginning of July, the amount of the minimum early retirement pension, contributions for the performance of graduate internships, and activation work in the form of voluntary service, contributions to support alternative care, or the maximum amount of substitute child support from the state will also go up. All these benefits, just as the subsistence minimum, are to increase by 7.5%. The amount of minimum early retirement pension will be 281.40 euros from the beginning of next month, an increase of 19.70 euros. NC-10

WAGE: The average nominal monthly wage of an employee increased 7.8% y-o-y to 1,212 euros in the first quarter of this year. As the Statistical Office informed, wages grow at a higher pace for several quarters in a row. The current value exceeded the growth in the last quarter of 2021. Nevertheless, alongside wages, consumer prices also rose dynamically, so the real wage adjusted for inflation showed a decline of 1.4%. "People were able to buy on average less goods and services for their incomes than a year ago. The last time we saw a decline in real wages was in the second quarter of 2020. While the pandemic was the cause of the decline at the time, lower real wages at the beginning of this year were attributable to accelerating inflation,” the statisticians said. The seasonally adjusted average wage increased by 1.4% q-o-q. The growth of the average nominal wage in the first quarter was seen in all 19 monitored sectors of the economy. Wages in financial and insurance activities grew relatively most dynamically in a y-o-y comparison, by 19.8%. In other activities it was a growth of 16.1%. The third-highest growth of 14.6% was recorded in accommodation and food services, which were most affected by the pandemic. At the same time, according to the Statistical Office, it has long been the sector with the lowest average wage in the Slovak economy, currently at 659 euros a month. In total, 11 sectors of the economy had a wage lower than the average in the Slovak economy and eight branches reported higher wages. HN-4

UNEMPLOYMENT: The number of unemployed according to the Labor Force Sample Survey amounted to 174,900 in the first quarter of this year, down 8.1% y-o-y. Compared to the previous quarter, the seasonally adjusted number of unemployed decreased 3% to 177,500. According to the Statistical Office, the unemployment rate fell by 0.7 percentage point to 6.4% compared to the same period last year. In the first quarter of 2022, 116,000 long-term unemployed were reported, a y-o-y increase of almost 36%. According to the office, the share of long-term unemployed was much higher than a year ago when in the first quarter of 2021, people out of work for more than 11 months made up only 45% of all unemployed, currently it is over 66%. Short-term unemployment rate fell by almost half at the beginning of 2022, with fewer than 59,000 people out of work for less than 12 months. The number of unemployed in the first quarter fell y-o-y in all eight regions. PLUS-9

EMPLOYMENT: In January to March this year, employment in Slovakia increased by 2.8% y-o-y, the Statistical Office has informed. Employment in the first quarter reached 2.572 million people. After an adjustment for seasonal effects, total employment decreased by 0.2% y-o-y to 2.589 million persons. The employment rate, which shows the share of workers in the total population, increased by 2.9 percentage points y-o-y to 75.9%. Out of a total of 18 monitored sectors of the economy, the number of workers posted a y-o-y increase in twelve in the first quarter of 2022. Employment growth was recorded in both manufacturing sectors and services, but the situation was volatile i services and only part of the sector recorded a growth. In industry, which has the highest share in the Slovak labor market, the number of workers increased 2.4% y-o-y to 696,000. At the beginning of 2022, the number of workers also increased in the construction industry, by 4.4% to 247,000. HN-4

ELECTIONS: Slovakia's municipal and regional elections will be held on October 29 this year. Speaker of Parliament Boris Kollar (We Are Family) officially announced the date at Monday's news conference. By law, the House Chairman has to announce the elections no later than 110 days before election day. He said that the autumn elections could have been held a week sooner, but his colleagues from the coalition allegedly persuaded him to hold the elections near to the All Souls Day public holiday when people travel to their permanent residences for the holidays, where they can vote. If they merge visiting graves with casting the vote it will be worth for people to travel to their permanent residences. He said that the date of the elections was the outcome of an agreement within the coalition. "We hope to see a higher voter turnout because of this," said Kollar. However, he did not dare to estimate the turnout as he does not have survey results that would confirm a higher turnout during the October 29 elections. He added that he would always "upset" some people, no matter what election date they would choose. Kollar says to possible cooperation of his party We Are Family and the opposition party VOICE-SD in the regional and municipal elections that it is up to regional structures. He stressed that if at stake is a decent candidate from the opposition party Republic or another non-parliamentary party, they will have no problem with support. He said about the cooperation with VOICE-SD in the future that he will no longer beat about the bush because it would not be possible to form a ruling coalition without this party. "Is a totally ridiculous idea to pretend now that VOICE stinks," he added. HN-5 PRAVDA-6,7 PLUS-4

COALITION: Speaker of Parliament and head of the coalition movement We Are Family Boris Kollar is "very sorry" that the coalition dispute over the embargo on Russian oil imports is being resolved through the media and not behind closed doors. As he told journalists on Monday, "what we have done was not a fortunate solution, and our people will pay for it when the price of petrol and diesel will climb well above two euros," Kollar reacted to MP Gyorgy Gyimesi (OLaNO), who last week called on Economy Minister Richard Sulik (SaS) to resign. According to Gyimesi, the reason is the provable large-scale economic damage from the latest sanction package adopted by the European Commission. Kollar said on Monday that much is being done for Ukraine. He is also in favor of helping Kyiv, and he was the first who supported the presence of NATO troops here. However, he also is among the first to protest against harming Slovakia economically. "We should have insisted on three years," Kollar said to the exemption on Russian oil imports. He added that he would be pleased if the House, and not only two politicians, decided on such issues. He later specified that he spoke about Prime Minister Eduard Heger (OLaNO) and minister Sulik. According to the House Chair, MP Gyimesi "stirred up the problem intensively" and it will certainly be discussed at the Coalition Council. According to Finance Minister Igor Matovic (OLaNO) Economy Minister Richard Sulik (SaS) deceived PM Eduard Heger(OLaNO) in talks on the sixth package of sanctions against Russia. These accusations concern the ban on Russian oil imports. “PM Eduard Heger was unfortunately duped by Richard Sulik in this matter and that is the root of the problem. He cheated Edo Heger, he cheated Slovnaft, he cheated Slovakia, and people will pay for it at filling stations,” Matovic added. According to him, the action of the Freedom and Solidarity (SaS) party leader is a disastrous failure and the economy minister has a lot to explain. Matovic claims that Sulik’s steps caused about 2-billion-euro damage to Slovakia and endangered MOL’s key investment worth 1.5 billion euros. “When a minister causes damage of 4 billion euros, their departure should certainly be considered,” Matovic concluded. HN-1 NC-5

COURTS: The retrial in the case of the murders of journalist Jan Kuciak and his fiancée Martina Kusnirova continued at the Specialized Criminal Court in Pezinok on Monday. This case has been merged with the one of the planned murders of prosecutors Maros Zilinka, Daniel Lipsic and Peter Sufliarsky. The prosecution continued questioning convict Zoltan Andrusko, who received an unconditional 15-year sentence in the case after he pleaded guilty. Andrusko, who has already testified in the matter at two hearings in May this year, is also involved in the preparation of the murders of the three prosecutors. The hearing is also scheduled for Tuesday, June 7, when a convicted member of the Sered drug gang, Ilija Weiss, is to testify. In June 2021, the Supreme Court annulled the Specialized Criminal Court verdict of September 2020 in the case of the murders of Jan Kuciak and his fiancée Martina Kusnirova. The senate returned the case to the Specialized Criminal Court that is to deal with the indictment against Marian K. and Alena Zs. again. The chairman of the senate Peter Paluda stated in the reasoning of the decision ordering a retrial that the court of first instance acted prematurely when acquitting Marian K. and Alena Zs. of the charges, in the part concerning the murders of Kuciak and Kusnirova. It failed to take some proposed evidence and did not even decide on other evidence. The charged persons in the case of preparing the murders of the three prosecutors are Marian K., Alena Zs., Tomas Szabo, Dusan Kr., and a citizen of Bosnia Darko D. PRAVDA-2,3

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020220607ei6700001


International
Russia-Ukraine live updates: Here’s what happened on Mar. 16; Also: Russia’s RT network can no longer be legally broadcast on Canadian screens, CRTC rules; Slovakia to discuss giving defence systems to Ukraine
Globe staff
6191 字
2022 年 6 月 9 日
The Globe and Mail (Breaking News)
GMBN
英文
©2022 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
This digest has now been archived. Find the latest Russia-Ukraine updates here.[https://tgam.ca/ukraine-live-updates]

Here are the latest updates on the war in Ukraine:

* Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the U.S.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/us-politics/article-ukrainian-president-volodymyr-zelensky-calls-on-us-to-do-more-to-stop/] to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine and put Russia under a complete trade embargo in an emotional address to Congress. He compared the current moment to the Japanese bombing of the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor in 1941 and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. President Joe Biden’s administration has stopped short of providing a no-fly zone.

* U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan warned Russia “about the consequences and implications of any possible Russian decision to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine,” the highest level engagement between the U.S. and Russia since the invasion began.

* U.S. President Joe Biden announced another US$800-million in military aid to Ukraine. Mr. Biden will also head to Europe to discuss the war with NATO allies.

* Russia’s military forces blasted Kyiv and other major cities Wednesday[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-russian-forces-try-to-crush-ukraine-defenses-amid-diplomacy-2/] as they tried to crush a Ukrainian defence that has frustrated their progress nearly three weeks after invading.

* Ukraine and Russia have expressed cautious optimism about peace negotiations. Moscow has not captured any of Ukraine’s biggest cities since it invaded last month. President Zelensky said negotiations now sound “more realistic.”

9:05 p.m. ET

Nearly 3,400 Ukrainians have arrived in Canada since Russian invasion

As millions of Ukrainian refugees flee the Russian invasion, flooding into neighbouring countries, Canada’s border agency says 3,368 Ukrainians have arrived in Canada since the start of the war[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-nearly-3400-ukrainians-have-arrived-in-canada-since-russian-invasion/] .

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government is facing calls to make it easier for Ukrainians to travel to Canada by lifting visa requirements – as other countries have – and co-ordinating a special airlift effort from the region.

Speaking to reporters Wednesday, Mr. Trudeau said the government will start accepting applications for its new streamlined immigration program for Ukrainians soon. However, he would not commit to an airlift.

-Michelle Carbert , Marieke Walsh , Kathryn Blaze Baum

8:50 p.m. ET

International Court of Justice orders Russia to cease hostilities in Ukraine

An international court has ordered Russia to stop the war in Ukraine immediately[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/canada/article-international-court-of-justice-orders-russia-to-cease-hostilities-in/] , leaving enforcement an open question as attacks continue.

The International Court of Justice, the top legal body of the United Nations, voted 13-2 on Wednesday to make the order. A judge from Russia and a judge from China were the only dissenters, saying the court lacks jurisdiction.

Harold Hongju Koh, a lawyer for Ukraine, explained the country’s strategy for making constructive use of the court order, in an interview with The Globe and Mail: Encourage China to advise Russian President Vladimir Putin to negotiate; weaken Mr. Putin’s leverage in negotiations; and push for a UN-authorized peacekeeping force, beyond Russia’s power to veto, that would patrol humanitarian corridors in Ukraine.

The ruling is a kind of injunction – an emergency order – in response to a request from Ukraine, which said Russia falsely accused it of genocide as a pretext for an illegal war. Under the UN’s 1948 Genocide Convention, member states can ask the court to settle disputes over whether a genocide is under way.

– Sean Fine

7:25 p.m. ET

Russian troops stalled outside Kyiv, U.S. defence official says

A senior U.S. defence official said Wednesday that the Russians continue to make little tangible progress across most of Ukraine. The official said Russian forces are still stalled outside Kyiv while continuing to bombard the capital city with missiles.

One key development, said the official, has been increased Russian naval activity in the northern Black Sea, where ships were shelling suburbs of Odesa. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss U.S. military assessments, said it’s not clear what the Russians intend to do, but the shelling could be the start of preparations to launch a ground assault on Odesa. Russia has warships and landing ships that carry troops and tanks in the Black Sea.

The official said the Russians have launched more than 980 missiles in Ukraine, and they are still flying around 200 sorties per day, although the total goes up and down. Ukrainians are still flying between five and 10 sorties a day.

The official said Ukraine continues to control Brovary and Mykolaiv, but the Russians have largely isolated Chernihiv and Mariupol. Roughly 75 per cent of all of Russia’s battalion tactical groups – which make up their ground forces – are committed to the fight in Ukraine, the official said.

– The Associated Press

6:45 p.m. ET

U.S. trade chief seeks to mitigate impacts from Russia sanctions on U.S.

Western sanctions and other actions to punish Russia over its invasion of Ukraine will impose costs[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-us-trade-chief-seeks-to-mitigate-impacts-from-russia-sanctions-on-us/] on the United States and its allies, and policy-makers needed to consider how to mitigate those impacts, U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai said on Wednesday.

Tai, asked about effects on U.S. auto makers of revoking Russia’s Permanent Normal Trade Relations status – a move that would allow higher tariffs on imports from Russia – said that the action was aimed at imposing costs on Russia.

“Those consequences are intended to have a cost on Russia. But they also will require us to bear some costs,” Tai told reporters at an SK Siltron silicon wafer plant in Michigan.

“What we need to do – and this is really a key to policy making – is to figure out how to take action that maximizes the consequences for Russia while we figure out how to mitigate the impacts on our economic interests,” Tai said.

She did not provide any specifics on whether certain metals imported from Russia, including palladium, rhodium and platinum used in vehicle exhaust catalytic converters and aluminum increasingly used in vehicle bodies, could be spared from higher tariffs.

She said that Russia’s actions had undermined a long-standing system of global economic integration, with consequences for the global economy.

– Reuters

6:00 p.m. ET

Insurers warned to prepare for more cyber claims during Ukraine conflict

Property and casualty insurers have been told[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-insurance-rates-could-be-driven-up-by-cyber-attacks-during-russian/] to prepare for an increase in cyber insurance claims as companies in Canada and the United States are at high risk of being online targets for cyberattacks if Russia decides to retaliate against government sanctions.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine, the federal government has warned Canadian businesses and organizations that the threat of cyberattacks [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-ottawa-warns-of-increased-threat-of-cyberattacks/] and malicious software has increased. U.S. intelligence officials have briefed Congress on potential threats to homeland security, emphasizing that the most serious threats include cyberattacks.

Cybersecurity experts, government agencies and insurance analysts have voiced concerns that state-sponsored attacks will become more sophisticated in the coming weeks, potentially affecting physical and financial infrastructure in most countries.

Cyber insurance, also known as cyber risk insurance or cyber liability insurance, has seen tremendous growth over the past three years, with premiums totalling more than US$7-billion globally in 2020. The specialty insurance typically covers business owners for financial losses from cyberattacks and hacking.

DBRS analyst Marcos Alvarez published a report last week that said insurers are likely to see increases in cyber claims.

– Clare O’Hara[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/clare-ohara/] , from Toronto

5:15 p.m. ET

Facebook removes more Russia posts claiming children’s hospital bombing a hoax

Facebook on Wednesday removed official Russian posts[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-facebook-removes-more-russia-posts-claiming-childrens-hospital-bombing/] that falsely claimed reports of Russia bombing a children’s hospital in Ukraine were a hoax, a company spokesperson said, even as similar messages appeared on other social media platforms.

The misinformation, on Russian Embassy Twitter, Facebook and Telegram accounts, circulated even after Twitter Inc and Meta Platform’s Facebook took down posts from the Russian Embassy in the United Kingdom for breaking their rules against denying violent events, an Israeli watchdog found..

A survey by the watchdog, FakeReporter, and verified by Reuters showed the posts were still circulated on at least 18 Russian Embassy or ministry Twitter, Facebook and Telegram accounts.

A Meta spokesperson confirmed the company removed the posts after Reuters contacted them early on Wednesday.

Twitter and Telegram did not respond to Reuters’ requests for comment. Russian embassies in Costa Rica, Denmark, Greece, Iceland, Jamaica, Japan, Mexico and Tunisia did not immediately respond to a request for comment about their postings on Facebook.

At least three people including a child were killed in the March 9 air strike on the maternity and children’s hospital in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said.

– Reuters

5:10 p.m. ET

Pro-Ukrainian movement sweeps orchestral world and beyond

The Ukrainian-Finnish conductor Dalia Stasevska began a concert[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/arts/music/article-pro-ukrainian-movement-sweeps-orchestral-world-and-beyond/] by the National Arts Centre Orchestra in Ottawa last week with a full-hearted speech condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine and calling on Western leaders to do more to help the embattled county.

“Ukrainians are fighting for the whole world,” she said. Then, quoting the adage that “music begins where words end,” the guest maestro introduced a rendition of the Ukrainian national anthem.

The solemn moment at Southam Hall is emblematic of a movement currently sweeping the orchestral world and beyond. Concerts are being dedicated to the Ukrainian cause, with the defiant national anthem (Ukraine’s Glory Hasn’t Perished) serving as a stoic rallying point.

In New York on Monday, with the exterior of the Metropolitan Opera House awash in blue and yellow, the colours of the Ukrainian flag, the Met Orchestra and Chorus gave a benefit performance, titled A Concert for Ukraine. A recent episode of Saturday Night Live opened with the Ukrainian Chorus Dumka of New York singing the Ukrainian national anthem. The piece, which began life as the 19th-century poem Ukraine Is Not Dead Yet, was banned when Ukraine became part of the Soviet Union in the early 1920s and revived after the fall of the communist state.

- Brad Wheeler[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/brad-wheeler/] , in Toronto

4:50 p.m. ET

Russian troops destroy theatre in Mariupol

Ukrainian officials say Russian forces destroyed a theatre in the city of Mariupol where hundreds of people were sheltering.

There was no immediate word on deaths or injuries in what the Mariupol city council said was an air strike on the theatre Wednesday.

The Maxar satellite imagery firm said images from Monday showed the word “children” had been written in large white letters in Russian in front of and behind the building.

Nowhere has suffered more than the encircled city of Mariupol, where local officials say missile strikes and shelling have killed more than 2,300 people. The southern seaport of 430,000 has been under attack for almost all of the three-week war in a siege that has left people struggling for food, water, heat and medicine.

– The Associated Press

4:45 p.m. ET

UN Security Council to vote Friday on Russian efforts for aid access in Ukraine

The UN Security Council is due to vote[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-un-security-council-to-vote-friday-on-russian-efforts-for-aid-access/] on Friday on a Russian-drafted call for aid access and civilian protection in Ukraine, but diplomats say the measure is set to fail because it does not push for an end to the fighting or withdrawal of Russian troops.

The draft resolution, seen by Reuters, also does not address accountability or acknowledge Russia’s invasion of its neighbour.

Britain’s UN Ambassador Barbara Woodward described these as “glaring omissions” in a video posted on Twitter on Tuesday and said Russia was “game playing.” She said Britain would not vote for Russia’s draft text.

“Their resolution calls for parties to respect international humanitarian law, but leaves out the fact that Russia is committing war crimes,” she said. “It is their invasion and their actions driving this unfolding humanitarian crisis.”

A Security Council resolution needs at least nine votes in favour and no vetoes by Russia, China, Britain, France or the United States to be adopted. Diplomats said the Russian move would fail because most of the 15 members would likely abstain.

– The Associated Press

4:30 p.m. ET

Russia’s RT network can no longer be legally broadcast on Canadian screens, CRTC rules

Canada’s federal broadcast regulator has ruled that[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-russias-rt-network-can-no-longer-be-legally-broadcast-on-canadian/] RT, a Kremlin-controlled network, can no longer legally be carried on Canadian television screens.

“Freedom of speech and a range of perspectives are a necessary part of our democracy. However, it is a privilege and not a right to be broadcast in Canada.” the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission wrote in its decision on Wednesday.

The CRTC statement added that the regulator is “concerned with programming from a foreign country that seeks to undermine the sovereignty of another country, demean Canadians of a particular ethnic background and undermine democratic institutions within Canada.”

The decision came after an expedited hearing into whether the channel should be allowed on Canadian TV screens, following Russia’s recent invasion of Ukraine.

Susan Krashinsky Robertson[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/susan-krashinsky-robertson/] , from Toronto

4:15 p.m. ET

Slovakia to discuss giving defence systems to Ukraine

Slovakian defence officials expect to discuss a possible transfer of their Soviet-era S-300 air defence systems to Ukraine when U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin visits there Thursday, a Slovak military spokesperson said.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky mentioned the S-300s by name when he spoke to U.S. lawmakers by video Wednesday, appealing for anti-air systems that would allow Ukraine to “close the skies” to Russian warplanes and missiles.

Slovak Defense Ministry spokesperson Martina Koval Kakascikova said Slovaks expect the issue to be on the agenda when Austin comes to Bratislava for talks.

Slovakia has no objections to providing its S-300s to Ukraine, she said. “But we can’t get rid of a system that protects our air space if we don’t have any replacement.”

The S-300s use long-range missiles that are capable of flying hundreds of miles and knocking down cruise missiles as well as warplanes. The Soviet-era anti-air defence systems could be valuable in thwarting Russian air attacks on cities and other targets.

U.S. President Joe Biden said Wednesday that the U.S. would help provide long-range air defence systems to Ukraine, but gave no details. U.S. officials had no comment on any S-300 swap. Three NATO members – Slovakia, Greece and Bulgaria – are reported to have S-300s.

– The Associated Press

3:55 p.m. ET

Biden denounces Putin as a ‘war criminal’

President Joe Biden on Wednesday called Russian President Vladimir Putin a war criminal as the atrocities in Ukraine mount and the president there begged the U.S. Congress for more help.

“He’s a war criminal,” the president said of Putin as he left an unrelated event. It’s the sharpest condemnation yet of Putin and Russian actions by a U.S. official since the invasion of Ukraine.

While other world leaders have used the words, the White House had been hesitant to declare Putin’s actions those of a war criminal, saying it was a legal term that required research.

But in a speech Wednesday, Biden said Russian troops had bombed hospitals and held doctors hostage. He pledged more aid to help Ukraine fight Russia.

– The Associated Press

3:40 p.m. ET

Ukraine’s national anthem echoes around the world

2:40 p.m. ET

Ukrainian mayor no longer in Russian custody

The mayor of the southeastern Ukrainian city of Melitopol has been freed after he was seized by Russian forces five days ago, a Ukrainian official said Wednesday.

Andriy Yermak, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky’s chief of staff, announced the news but did not share details about how Ivan Fedorov became free.

Surveillance video last week showed Fedorov being marched out of city hall apparently surrounded by Russian soldiers.

Prior to the start of the invasion, U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration had warned of Russian plans to detain and kill targeted people in Ukraine, with Zelensky himself likely top target.

– The Associated Press

2:22 p.m. ET

Denmark fast-tracks new law to welcome Ukrainian refugees

Denmark on Wednesday passed legislation[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-denmark-fast-tracks-new-law-to-welcome-ukrainian-refugees/] allowing Ukrainians fleeing the war in Ukraine to start working, going to school and receiving social benefits soon after arrival in the Nordic welfare state.

The law, which was fast-tracked in parliament, allows Ukrainian refugees to apply for temporary residency in Denmark for up to two years, effectively bypassing the slower process of applying for asylum.

Integration Minister Mattias Tesfaye said in a statement he wanted the first residence permits to be granted at the weekend.

“After that, it will be a few days before we can start getting Ukrainian refugees as colleagues, and our children will have new schoolmates,” Tesfaye said.

Ukrainians coming to Denmark would be provided with rights similar to those offered to citizens within the European Union, as well as relief and accommodation.

– Reuters

2:10 p.m. ET

‘True patriots from the scum’: Putin warns Russia against pro-Western ‘traitors’

President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday delivered a stark warning to Russian “traitors” who he said the West wanted to use as a “fifth column” to destroy the country.

The Kremlin leader assailed Russians who he said were more mentally in tune with the West than Russia, and said the Russian people would quickly be able to tell the difference between traitors and patriots.

“Of course they (the West) will try to bet on the so-called fifth column, on traitors – on those who earn their money here, but live over there. Live, not in the geographical sense, but in the sense of their thoughts, their slavish thinking,” he told government ministers, three weeks into Russia’s war with Ukraine.

“Any people, and especially the Russian people, will always be able to distinguish the true patriots from the scum and the traitors, and just to spit them out like a midge that accidentally flew into their mouths.”

– Reuters

1:50 p.m. ET

Hit with sanctions, Russia teeters on brink of historic default

The economic cost of Russia’s assault on Ukraine was further exposed on Wednesday as the sanctions-hit country teetered on the brink of its first default on international debt since the Bolshevik revolution.

Moscow is due to pay $117 million in interest on two dollar-denominated sovereign bonds it sold in 2013. But the limits it now faces in making payments, and talk from the Kremlin that it might pay in rubles – triggering a default anyway – has left even veteran investors guessing at what might happen.

One described it as the most closely watched government debt payment since Greece’s default at the height of the euro zone crisis. Others said a grace period that allows Russia another 30 days to make the payment could drag the saga out.

“The thing about defaults is that they are never clear-cut and this is no exception,” said Pictet emerging market portfolio manager Guido Chamorro.

“There is a grace period, so we are not really going to know whether this is a default or not until April 15,” he said referring to the situation if no coupon payment is made. “Anything could happen in the grace period.”

Creditors had not received funds by close of business in London, two sources familiar with the situation said.

Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov meanwhile said Moscow had made the payment which had reached the correspondent American bank, and it was now down to Washington to clarify whether settlement is possible.

– Reuters

1:35 p.m. ET

Biden sending more anti-aircraft systems, drones to Ukraine

President Joe Biden said Wednesday the U.S. is sending more anti-aircraft, antiarmor weapons and drones to Ukraine to assist in its defence against Russia.

The president’s comments came as he formally announced his administration was sending an additional $800 million in military assistance to Ukraine, making a total of $2 billion in such aid sent to Kyiv since Biden took office more than a year ago. About $1 billion in aid has been sent in just the last week.

“We’re going to give Ukraine the arms to fight and defend themselves through all the difficult days ahead,” Biden said.

Biden spoke hours after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky delivered a video address to members of U.S. Congress in which he made an impassioned plea for the U.S. and West to provide more help to save his young democracy than world leaders have so far pledged to provide.

– The Associated Press

1:18 p.m. ET

Russia charges three in first known criminal cases for ‘false information’ about war on Ukraine

Russian law enforcement has announced the first known criminal cases against people posting what is deemed to be “false information” about the war in Ukraine.

The Investigative Committee, a law enforcement agency, listed three suspects, including Veronika Belotserkovskaya, who is a Russian-language cookbook author and popular blogger living abroad.

It said Belotserkovskaya made posts on Instagram containing “deliberately false information about the use of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation to destroy cities and the civilian population of Ukraine, including children.”

Belotserkovskaya, whose Instagram profile says she was born in Ukraine, responded to the announcement by writing that “I have been officially declared to be a decent person!”

The other suspects were identified only as a man and a woman in the Tomsk Region of Siberia. The Investigative Committee said they had posted false messages about Russian military operations and casualties and that their homes had been searched.

The invasion of Ukraine is being characterized in Russia as a “special military operation,” not a war. President Vladimir Putin on March 4 signed legislation allowing for jail terms of up to 15 years for posting false information about the military.

– Reuters

12:51 p.m. ET

NATO vows more help for Ukraine, begins planning to adapt to ‘new reality’

The United States and other NATO members said on Wednesday they would keep helping Ukraine fight off Russia’s invasion, while also adapting the alliance’s own security to the “new reality” triggered by the war.

Diplomats and military analysts estimate that NATO allies have sent more than 20,000 anti-tank and other weapons to Ukraine since the invasion started on Feb. 24.

“We remain united in our support of Ukraine,” U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said at an emergency meeting of NATO defence ministers in Brussels. “We support their ability to defend themselves and will continue to support them.”

NATO countries will continue to deliver weapons to Ukraine even as those deliveries could become the target of Russian attacks, Dutch defence minister Kajsa Ollongren told reporters, adding: “Ukraine has the right to defend itself.”

Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a “special operation” that it says is not designed to occupy territory but to destroy its southern neighbour’s military capabilities and capture what it regards as dangerous nationalists.

Ukraine is not a member of NATO. Although it has repeatedly said it wants to join to benefit from its protection, Kyiv said on Tuesday it understood it does not have an open door to NATO membership and was seeking other types of security guarantees.

Fearing that an attack on NATO territory was also part of Moscow’s broader military plans, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said that defence ministers agreed to tell military commanders to draw up plans for new ways to deter Russia.

Those plans will likely be approved by NATO leaders at a summit in Madrid in June and will also be discussed briefly next Thursday by leaders when they meet in Brussels at allied headquarters in a bid to show unity.

– Reuters

12:25 p.m. ET

‘Heartbreaking decisions’ had to be made in Canada’s response to Ukraine, Trudeau says

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says Canada has had to make[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-heartbreaking-decisions-had-to-be-made-in-canadas-response-to-ukraine/] “heartbreaking decisions” when it comes to responding to Ukraine’s request for a no-fly zone.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky reiterated his request for allied nations to secure the skies over his country in his address to the U.S. Congress this morning after his impassioned speech before the Canadian Parliament Tuesday.

North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies including Canada have denied Zelensky’s request for a no-fly zone over concerns that it would cross a red line and spark a large-scale international conflict.

Rather, Trudeau says Canada has responded to Ukraine’s request for help with continued deliveries of lethal weapons, humanitarian aid and refugee support.

Trudeau plans to travel to Brussels next week to discuss further support for Ukraine with other NATO nations.

He says the discussion will centre on how to protect lives in Ukraine and globally.

– The Canadian Press

12:01 p.m. ET

Israel’s Bennett emerges as a mediator in Russia-Ukraine war

Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has leveraged Israel’s good relations with both Ukraine and Russia and his personal rapport with their leaders to turn himself into an unexpected mediator.

He is one of the few world leaders to speak regularly to both sides. Bennett himself has said little in public about his mediation since making a surprise visit to Moscow for talks with President Vladimir Putin on March 5. His office says there have been two more phone calls with Putin and six with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

Bennett describes his efforts as a moral obligation to do whatever is possible to end the fighting. Underscoring that message, Bennett flew to Moscow to meet Putin on the Jewish sabbath, when observant Jews like himself do not travel unless it is a life-saving situation.

Israel’s ties with Russia and Ukraine run deep. Both countries have large Jewish communities, and over 1 million Jews from the region have moved to Israel since the collapse of the Soviet Union three decades ago.

– The Associated Press

11:42 a.m. ET

Putin acknowledges sanction pain, says invasion is “going to plan”

President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that Russia would achieve its goals in Ukraine and would not submit to what he called a Western attempt to achieve global dominance and dismember Russia.

Putin said Russia was ready to discuss neutral status for Ukraine, three weeks into a war that has killed thousands of people and forced millions of Ukrainians to flee their homes.

He said that what Russia calls its special military operation was “going to plan.”

In his most explicit acknowledgment of the pain inflicted by Western sanctions, Putin said inflation and unemployment would rise, and structural changes to the economy would be needed. But he promised support to families with children.

“The West doesn’t even bother to hide that their aim is to damage the entire Russian economy, every Russian,” Putin said.

– Reuters

11:19 a.m. ET

U.S. warns Russia against using chemical weapons

U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan spoke and Gen. Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of the Russian Security Council, spoke by phone on Wednesday, the highest level engagement between the U.S. and Russia since the invasion nearly three weeks ago.

Sullivan warned Patrushev “about the consequences and implications of any possible Russian decision to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine,” according to a White House spokesperson. The White House last week accused China of spreading Russian disinformation that could be a pretext for Russian President Vladimir Putin’s forces to attack Ukraine with chemical or biological weapons.

– The Associated Press

10:46 a.m. ET

Child refugees prove a challenge for host countries

Thousands of Ukrainian children who have found shelter in hastily converted housing facilities across central and eastern Europe are struggling to come to terms with their new reality as refugees fleeing Russia’s invasion of their country.

According to figures released by UNICEF on Tuesday, children account for about half of the more than 3 million Ukrainians who have fled their country, mostly for Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Moldova.

Countries bordering Ukraine have provided sanctuary to a seemingly unending flow of refugees, and their authorities are facing the additional, monumental task of providing long-term mental care to traumatized Ukrainian children.

New arrivals are expected to overwhelm underfunded and poorly managed public schools in tiny Moldova, but also in relatively affluent Poland, where classes are held in Polish, which most Ukrainians do not speak.

Psychologists say young Ukrainian refugees appear unable to comprehend the longer-term nature of their absence from home and separation from their fathers, who are forbidden to leave Ukraine in order to fight in the war.

– The Associated Press

9:35 a.m. ET

Zelensky calls on U.S. to do more to stop Putin

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the U.S.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/us-politics/article-ukrainian-president-volodymyr-zelensky-calls-on-us-to-do-more-to-stop/] to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine, transfer more military equipment including fighter jets to his military, and put Russia under a complete trade embargo in an emotional address to Congress.

“This is a terror that Europe has not seen in 80 years,” he said. “Is this too much to ask for a no-fly zone over Ukraine?”

Mr. Zelensky compared the current moment to the Japanese bombing of the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor in 1941 and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. He also quoted Martin Luther King Jr.

“We need you right now. Remember that terrible morning of Dec. 7, 1941 when your sky was black from the planes attacking you? Remember September 11th, a terrible day in 2001 when evil tried to turn your cities … into battlefields?” he said. “I have a dream – these words are know to each of you. Today I can say I have a need. I have a need to protect the sky.”

– Adrian Morrow[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/adrian-morrow/]

9:35 a.m. ET

Putin-Zelensky meeting should be to seal deal: Russia

Russia said on Wednesday there were no obstacles to a meeting between President Vladimir Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky, but that such a meeting would only take place to seal a specific agreement.

“There are no obstacles to the organization of such a meeting with the understanding that it would not be just for its own sake; it would have to seal concrete agreements which are currently being worked out by the two delegations,” Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told reporters.

– Reuters

8:15 a.m. ET

Eastern Europe works to integrate Ukrainian refugees

Thousands of refugees from Ukraine crossed into Eastern Europe on Wednesday, where authorities are providing food, social services and school places to help people rebuild their lives away from war.

Three weeks into Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, there are some signs the exodus is slowing although tens of thousands of people are arriving daily.

More than 3 million people have left Ukraine so far. The front line states – Poland, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary and Moldova – have been providing help to drive, feed or house refugees.

In Poland, which has taken nearly 2 million people from Ukraine, authorities on Wednesday began issuing national identification numbers to the refugees so they can access social services and benefits, and more easily find jobs.

– Reuters

6:51 a.m. ET

Swiss add more sanctions on Russia to align with EU

Switzerland has adopted more European Union sanctions against Russian individuals and entities.

“Switzerland’s list of sanctions now fully mirrors that of the EU,” the Swiss government said in a statement, adding the individuals sanctioned included further oligarchs and prominent business people whose assets in Switzerland must be frozen as of midday.

– Reuters

6:15 a.m. ET

Mariupol descends into despair

Each air strike and shell that relentlessly pounds Mariupol – about one a minute at times – drives home the curse of a geography that has put the city squarely in the path of Russia’s domination of Ukraine. The city is now encircled by Russian soldiers, who are slowly squeezing the life out of it, one blast at a time.

Several appeals for humanitarian corridors to evacuate civilians went unheeded, until Ukrainian officials said Tuesday that about 4,000 passenger cars carrying civilians had fled Mariupol in a convoy. Air strikes and shells have hit the maternity hospital, the fire department, homes, a church, a field outside a school. For the estimated hundreds of thousands who remain, there is quite simply nowhere to go.

The surrounding roads are mined and the port blocked. Food is running out, and the Russians have stopped humanitarian attempts to bring it in. Electricity is mostly gone and water is sparse, with residents melting snow to drink. Some parents have even left their newborns at the hospital, perhaps hoping to give them a chance at life in the one place with decent electricity and water.

Local officials have tallied more than 2,500 deaths in the siege, but many bodies can’t be counted because of the endless shelling. They have told families to leave their dead outside in the streets because it’s too dangerous to hold funerals.

– The Associated Press

5:36 a.m. ET

Russia says parts of a compromise deal are close, Ukraine could be like Austria

Russia said on Wednesday that some parts of a possible peace deal with Ukraine were close to being agreed after Kyiv agreed to discuss neutrality,

“Neutral status is now being seriously discussed along, of course, with security guarantees,” Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said told RBC news.

“Now this very thing is being discussed in negotiations – there are absolutely specific formulations which in my view are close to agreement.”

Lavrov cautioned that the negotiations were not easy but that there was “some hope of reaching a compromise.” He said key issues included the security of people in eastern Ukraine, the demilitarization of Ukraine and the rights of Russian-speaking people in Ukraine.

The Kremlin said on Wednesday that a neutral Ukraine with its own army along the lines of Austria or Sweden was being looked at as a possible compromise in talks with Kyiv.

– Reuters

5:15 a.m. ET

Zelensky cautiously optimistic on peace talks

Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelensky struck a cautiously optimistic note over ongoing peace talks with Russia in a Wednesday video address

“It is difficult, but important, as any war ends with an agreement. The meetings continue, and, I am informed, the positions during the negotiations already sound more realistic.”

Moscow has not captured any of Ukraine’s 10 biggest cities since it invaded last month, seeding hope among Ukrainian officials who say the war could end sooner than expected.

A possible point of compromise may be NATO. Zelensky said earlier Ukraine was prepared to accept security guarantees from the West that stop short of its long-term goal of joining NATO. Russia sees any possibility of Ukraine joining NATO as a threat and has demanded guarantees it will never be a member.

– The Associated Press

5:10 a.m. ET

Russian assault on major cities continues

Russia’s military forces blasted Ukraine’s capital region and other major cities Wednesday[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-russian-forces-try-to-crush-ukraine-defenses-amid-diplomacy-2/] as they tried to crush a Ukrainian defence that has frustrated their progress nearly three weeks after invading.

Russia rained shells on areas around Kyiv and within the city, where a 12-story apartment building erupted in flames after being hit by shrapnel.

A senior U.S. defence official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the Pentagon’s assessment, said the Russians were using long-range fire to hit civilian targets inside Kyiv with increasing frequency but that their ground forces were making little to no progress around the country. The official said Russian troops were still about 15 kilometres from the centre of the capital.

– The Associated Press

12:31 a.m. ET

Zelensky to address U.S. Congress

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will address the U.S. Congress virtually on Wednesday.

Nearing the three-week mark in an ever-escalating war, Zelensky has used his campaign to implore allied leaders to “close the sky” to prevent the Russian air strikes that are devastating his country. President Joe Biden’s administration has stopped short of providing a no-fly zone or the transfer of military jets from neighbouring Poland as the U.S. seeks to avoid a direct confrontation with Russia.

Instead, Biden will deliver his own address following Zelensky’s speech, in which he is expected to announce an additional $800 million in security assistance to Ukraine, according to a White House official familiar with the matter. That would bring the total announced in the last week alone to $1 billion. It includes money for antiarmor and air-defence weapons, according to the official.

Late on Tuesday, the White House announced that Mr. Joe Biden will make his first visit to Europe since Russia invaded to discuss the crisis.

– The Associated Press

Follow this link to view this story on globeandmail.com: Russia-Ukraine live updates: Here’s what happened on Mar. 16[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-russia-ukraine-live-updates-zelensky-address-us-congress/]

The Globe and Mail

The Globe and Mail Inc.

文件 GMBN000020220609ei69004s9


REPORT OF THE FINANCE, TRANSACTIONS AND INVESTMENTS COMMITTEE
Anonymous
6863 字
2022 年 7 月 1 日
Energy Law Journal
NRGLAW
1-15
Volume 43; Issue 2; ISSN:02709163
英文
Copyright © 2022 Energy Law Journal. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved.
This report summarizes developments in international energy law between January 1, 2021, and June 30, 2022.·

I. U.S. and North America Energy Supply & Trade Developments

A. Executive Order 14008: Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad

In January 2021, President Biden issued an executive order intended to address climate change.1 Executive Order 14008 sets out several initiatives including making "climate change considerations" an integral part of "United States foreign policy and national security."2 The Executive Order also addresses steps to take domestically to deliver a "clean energy future" and endeavor "to achieve netzero emissions by 2050."3 Those steps include creating more clean energy infrastructure projects built by union members and accelerating the deployment of renewable energy on public lands and waters, including actions to advance offshore wind.4 The approaches outlined in the Executive Order seek to "combat the climate crisis" both at home and across the world, including proposals to rebuild infrastructure for a sustainable economy, advancement of reforestation and agriculture, and "revitalizing energy communities."5

B. The Department of Commerce

1. Inquiry into Imports of Solar Panels

On March 28, 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) announced it is investigating whether imports of solar panels assembled in "Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam" are circumventing duties intended to limit imports of solar cells and panels from China, in violation of anti-dumping rules, which could ultimately result in retroactively applied tariffs on up to 80% of solar imports.6 "The Department of Commerce's investigation is being launched in response to a complaint filed by Auxin Solar, a photovoltaic solar manufacturer based in California's Silicon Valley."7 "Auxin Solar claims that the solar cells imported from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam are identical to those from China that are subject to tariffs."8 The uncertainty caused by the inquiry is impacting the U.S. solar industry.9

Proponents of the DOC investigation argue that the alleged circumvention makes it impossible for U.S. based manufacturers to compete against solar panels in Asia and that increased tariffs would support domestic solar panel production. However, opponents of the DOC inquiry fear that the investigation will cause significant harm to U.S. crystalline silicone module producers, as these companies depend on imports of solar cells due to the lack of production capacity within the United States.10

2. Biden Administration's Proclamation on Tariffs

On June 6, 2022, President Biden issued a Proclamation ensuring that no new tariffs can be enforced on solar imports for 24 months to temporarily allow the importation of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells and modules from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam free from collection of antidumping and countervailing (AD/CVD) duties or estimated duties.11 The Proclamation refers specifically to the circumvention provision,12 new investigations13 and administrative reviews,14 and paves the way for imports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells and modules free of AD/CVD duties for 24 months, or until June 6, 2024.15

The President issued the Proclamation as the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) investigated whether to impose AD/CVD duties on imports of solar cells and modules from Southeast Asia.16 The duties - that could be over 238.95% - originally targeted imports from China, but one module assembler in the United States (Auxin Solar) petitioned for expansion of the China duties, alleging that Chinese companies set up production in Southeast Asia to circumvent the AD/CVD duties by producing cells and modules with Chinese inputs.17

The China duties were imposed in 2012, but since then, supply chains have shifted, resulting in approximately 80% of imports originating from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam, totaling over $5 billion in trade annually.18 At the same time, U.S. cell production has shut down and only solar modules are assembled domestically.19 "As the U.S. module industry has grown, they remain reliant on imported cells, leading domestic producers to openly oppose the circumvention inquiries that threaten their supply of a key component."20

II. War in Ukraine and the Aftershocks to the Oil and Natural Gas Markets

On February 24, 2022, after months of troop build-up, Russia "launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine."21 In response to Russia's attack, the United States, the European Union ("EU"), and other allied countries have imposed wide-ranging sanctions on Russia.22 As revenue from fossil fuel exports is a huge component of Russia's federal budget, many of the imposed sanctions target Russia's oil and natural gas sectors.23 But, as certain countries, especially those in central and eastern Europe, rely heavily on Russian oil and natural gas, the sanctions aim to punish Russia and deter Russian aggression in Ukraine while also trying to limit the impact of those sanctions on domestic energy security, reliability, and affordability.24 A summary of the main European Union and American oil and natural gas sanctions against Russia, and responses to those sanctions, is below.25

A. Import Bans on Russian Oil

1. United States

On March 8, 2022, amid increasing energy prices, the Biden Administration issued Executive Order 14066, which imposed an immediate ban on imports into the United States of Russian oil, liquefied natural gas, and coal.26 The executive order also prohibited any "new investments in the energy sector in the Russian Federation by a United States person."27 Although "Russia is one of the three largest crude oil producers in the world," the United States has less dependence on Russian oil than many other countries.28 In fact, "only 8% of all U.S. petroleum imports" in 2021 were from Russia ("include[ing] a 3% share of crude oil imports and [a] 20% share of petroleum product imports").29

On April 8, 2022, following up on Executive Order 14066, President Biden signed into law H.R. 6968 (Ending Importation of Russian Oil Act), which statutorily "prohibits] the importation of energy products from Russia."30 President Biden also signed into law the companion bill H.R. 7108 (Suspending Normal Trade Relations with Russia and Belarus).31

2. European Union

As compared to the United States, European countries are much more dependent on Russian oil.32 For example, in 2021, numerous European Union countries such as Slovakia, Lithuania, and Poland received over 50% of their oil imports from Russia.33

On June 3, 2022, after months of negotiations, the EU agreed to a sixth major package of sanctions, which included an embargo on Russian crude oil and petroleum products but made an exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline.34 The oil embargo did not take effect immediately, and instead will be introduced in phases.35 "Seaborne imports of Russian crude oil [are banned] as of December 5,

2022," and Russia "petroleum product imports [are banned] as of February 5,

2023."36 But, "in a compromise with [countries such as] Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic" that are dependent on Russian crude oil imports from the Druzhba pipeline, the embargo does not cover pipeline imports of Russian crude oil and petroleum products although such oil is prohibited from being resold to other EU member states.37 In addition, Bulgaria was allowed to continue importing Russian "seaborne crude oil" through the end of 2024 and Croatia was permitted to continue "import[ing] Russian vacuum gas oil (a refinery feedstock) [through] the end of 2023."38

In addition to the EU measures in the sixth sanctions package, Germany and Poland have also voluntarily agreed to halt pipeline imports of Russian crude oil by the end of 2022.39 The combined Polish and German stoppage and the European Union embargo are anticipated to cut 90% of Russian oil imports to the EU.40

3.Russian Markets

As the EU, the U.S. and certain other allied countries have shunned Russian oil; countries such as China and India have been stepping in, as global oil prices soar, to purchase additional Russian oil, often at steep discounts.41 For example, India has become a significant importer of Russian crude oil and now accounts for 18% of Russia's crude oil exports.42 While India imported "12 million barrels" of Russian oil "in all of 2021," India has already imported almost "60 million barrels of Russian oil" through mid-2022.43 China is now the single largest importer of oil from Russia, overtaking Germany.44 In addition, as compared to the first couple of months of 2022, "Russian crude [oil] export to Turkey have also doubled to 260,000 barrels per day and Bulgaria imports have also more than trebled to over 200,000 barrels per day."45

Russia's oil exports have shown to be resilient in the face of sanctions, with Russia maintaining its position as third largest oil producer in the world after Saudi Arabia and the United States.46 In fact, in the first 100 days since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Russia is estimated to have earned approximately "93 billion [euros] in revenue from fossil fuel exports," although the EU member states remain responsible for 61% of this total, "worth approximately 57 billion euros."47 In the first half of June 2022, Russia's seaborne oil exports averaged approximately 3.88 million barrels per day, which represents the highest level for such imports since May 2019.48 Crude oil prices are now approximately double the level from 2021, and with the high commodity prices, Russian state revenues from fossil fuels are actually forecasted to be higher in 2022 than last year.49

B. Export Controls

1. United States

Building upon export controls previously announced in other sectors after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, on March 3, 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced stringent new export controls "targeting] Russia's oil refining sector."50 This action is intended to impede "Russia's oil refining sector," thereby limiting the revenue Russia would be able to generate through the sale of refined petroleum products, such as gasoline.51 These export controls build on existing restrictions the Department of Commerce enacted in 2014 after the Russian invasion of Crimea on "Russian deepwater oil and gas exploration and extraction industries"52

2. European Union

On March 15, 2022, as part of its fourth package of sanctions against Russia, the EU announced that it would "prohibit new investments in the Russian energy sector" and enact "comprehensive export restrictions on equipment, technology, and services for the [Russian] energy industry."53 In addition, as part of the sixth package of sanctions agreed to on June 3, 2022, the EU mandated that, after a six month phase in period, companies in the EU will be prohibited from providing shipping insurance for the transport of Russian oil.54 Considering the EU oil embargo, this action aims to hinder Russia's ability to redirect oil sales away from Europe to other markets.55

C. Russian Natural Gas

While not an issue for the United States, the EU is faced with its dependence on Russian natural gas and has taken a different approach to sanctions on Russian natural gas and has not yet placed any embargoes on the importation of natural gas from Russia.56 "Russia supplied Europe with [approximately] 40% of its natural gas [in 2021], with Germany as the continent's largest importer in 2020."57 Compared to oil, substitutes for Russian natural gas are much harder to come by.58 Europe has looked to liquid natural gas (LNG) imports from the United States to replace Russian natural gas.59 However, the shift to sourcing natural gas outside of Russia has been difficult, especially in light of the June 2022 explosion at the Freeport LNG plant in Texas, which harmed the U.S.' LNG export capacity.60

Russia has sought to leverage its natural gas position, including threats to withhold natural gas supplies, to pressure the EU on its sanctions against Russia.61 In a move to avoid EU banking sanctions, on March 31, 2022, Russian President Putin announced a decree forcing foreign buyers to "pay for Russian natural gas in roubles . . . or else have their [natural gas] supplies cut."62 European natural gas contracts primarily use euros for payment.63 Pursuant to President Putin's decree, foreign buyers would open special accounts in the Russian bank Gazprombank, and then "Gazprombank would buy rubles on behalf of the gas buyer."64 Since then, Russia has cut off natural gas supplies to certain European countries that refused to pay for gas in rubles, including EU member states "Poland, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Finland."65 In addition, Russia has also been cut ting natural gas supplies flowing to Germany through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline.66 While Russia has cited maintenance and technical repairs for the Nord Stream 1 shut offs, German leaders have dismissed such assertions and argue instead that Russia is using economic pressure to try to weaken European support for Ukraine.67

With all of the natural gas shut offs, the International Monetary Fund estimates that the most-affected countries in Central and Eastern Europe, such as Hungary, the Slovak Republic, and the Czech Republic, could face "shortages of as much as 40% of gas consumption," and a "gross domestic product shrinking by up to 6%."68 The European Commission has also warned that a natural gas cut off during "winter could have a major impact on EU [member state] economies."69 Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, natural gas prices in Europe have already been soaring - with natural gas prices approximately six times higher than in 2021.70 While Russian gas exports fell about in quarter in June 2022 as compared to a year ago, earnings rose from $3.6 billion to $11.1 billion.71

In preparation for further cuts to the natural gas supply, the EU energy ministers, except for Hungary, have agreed to cuts in natural gas consumption.72 While the energy plan starts as "a voluntary 15% reduction in gas consumption across the bloc" from August 2022 through March 2023, those reductions could become mandatory if faced with extreme gas storages and after the activation of Union Alert system by a "qualified majority vote."73 However, the mandatory cuts are subject to multiple exceptions, including for countries that are not interconnected with neighboring countries, and for countries that "can demonstrate they use their [LNG] infrastructure to import from non-Russian suppliers" and will export natural gas to other EU member states as possible.74 In addition, countries can also request exemptions from the mandatory cuts based on certain enumerated reasons, including for surpassing gas storage targets.75

D.Nord Stream 2 Pipeline

The Nord Stream 2 Gas Pipeline ("Nord Stream 2") is an approximately $11 billion, 1,200-kilometer offshore natural gas pipeline connecting Greifswald in northeastern Germany to Ust-Luga in northwestern Russia.76 The pipeline crosses the Baltic Sea (bypassing Ukraine) and was intended to double the flow of natural gas between Russia and Germany.77 Nord Stream 2 lies next to the already operational Nord Stream 1 pipeline.78 Gazprom, the Russian state-owned energy company, is the upstream owner of Nord Stream 2.79

Nord Stream 2 has been controversial since its inception, with the United States and numerous Eastern European countries opposing the pipeline over concerns that Nord Stream 2 would further deepen European dependence on Russian energy.80

Although construction on Nord Stream 2 finished in September 2021 and operations were expected to start in 2022, the German energy regulator temporarily halted the certification process needed to start operating the pipeline in November 2021, and then, in response to Russia's actions towards Ukraine, suspended the process on February 22, 2022, after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz withdrew an official opinion that the pipeline did not pose a threat to supply security.81

The following day, the Biden Administration announced increased economic sanctions on Nord Stream 2, including sanctions on its parent company Nord Stream 2 AG and its chief executive officer.82 Nord Stream 2 has since filed for bankruptcy in Switzerland.83

III. Climate Change: Impacts and Adaptation

The international agenda has recognized climate change as an urgent matter since the signing of the United Nations Framework on Climate Change (UNFCC) in 1992.84 The UNFCC established an international environmental treaty where 154 state members agreed to adapt their national policies and regulations to reduce greenhouse gases and develop measures to minimize the effects of climate change.85 Since the UNFCC, the international climate change agenda has relied on the conclusions of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC).86 The IPCC is the United Nations body for assessing the science related to climate change and provides scientific information that governments across the world can use to develop climate policies.87 The IPCC has issued a series of working group reports that discuss the science behind climate change and methodology reports that address greenhouse gas emissions.88

A. Paris Agreement Greenhouse Gas Emissions Goals

The First IPCC Report, published in 1990, stated that human activities may be changing the climate of the globe through a greenhouse effect, by past and "continuing emissions of carbon dioxide" causing the "temperature of the Earth's surface to increase."89 This information formed the basis for the UNFCC.90 Likewise, the information released by the Fifth IPCC Report (2014) stating that "the temperature change . . . can be kept to less than 2°C relative to pre-industrial levels,"91 led state members, in the 2015 Paris Agreement92, to compromise to "hold[] the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and [to] pursue[] efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels."93 This goal remains in effect.94

The Sixth IPCC Report (2021) stated that significant changes to reduce greenhouse emissions need to be made.95 This information provided support for the Twenty-Sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.96 This conference is commonly referred to as COP26.97

B. COP26

COP26 took place in Glasgow, United Kingdom, from October 31-November 13, 2021.98 At COP26, state members agreed to the (non-legally binding) Glasgow Climate Pact (COP26).99 The most significant outcomes of CoP26 are detailed below.

1. Emissions Reduction

State members reaffirmed the Paris Agreement temperature goal.100 They "recognize[d] that [the] impacts of climate change will be much lower at the temperature increase of 1.5 °C compared with 2 °C, and resolve[d] to pursue efforts to limit the increase of temperature" to such level.101 This results in a rapid reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions to achieve "net zero [by] mid-century."102

To make the transition towards a low-emissions state, members agreed to scale up the deployment of clean power generation and energy efficiency measures, making efforts to "phase-down" coal power and "phase-out" inefficient fossil fuel subsidies.103 Thus far, the U.S., Japan and Canada have submitted climate targets before COP26, and India is preparing to submit new climate goals in September 2022.104

2. China and the United States Substantive Cooperation

The U.S. and China engaged in "The U.S.-China Joint Glasgow Declaration on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s" to avoid catastrophic impacts of climate change and strengthen implementation of the Paris Agreement goals.105 The two countries agreed to cooperate on regulatory frameworks that reduce emissions and develop decarbonization and electrification policies.106 The declaration also addresses key areas for circular economies, green designs, direct air capture and Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage technologies.107 More broadly, the U.S. and China agreed to reduce methane emissions as well as carbon dioxide.108 For such purposes, the United States announced the "U.S. Methane Emissions Reduction Action Plan" as well as its goal to reach 100% carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035, and China stated its intention to develop a "National Action Plan on methane"109 and a "phase down coal consumption during the 15th Five Year Plan."110

3. Developing Country Assistance

In continuation of existing compromises under the Paris Agreement, state members pledged to significantly support developing countries, among others, through financial resources to implement mitigation and adaptation measures.111 Moreover, they recognized that the previous goal to mobilize $100 billion per year by 2020 has not been met and agreed upon to increase economic support beyond $100 billion per year through 2025.112

4. Countries Pledge to Stop Deforestation by 2030

Previous efforts to end deforestation have resulted in the "Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests and Land Use," where 141 countries agreed on the "sustainable management of forests."113 These countries committed to work to reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030, while making efforts to conserve and restore forest; facilitate policies that promote sustainable development, reduce vulnerability in rural livelihoods, "redesign agricultural policies," and "reaffirm international financial commitments."114

Twelve governments committed $12 billion to fight deforestation and private companies pledged $7.2 billion which included $1.7 billion for Indigenous peoples.115 Likewise, more than "30 financial institutions . . . vowed to stop investing in companies responsible for deforestation."116

5. Financial Organizations Backing Clean Technology

The Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (The Alliance) was launched in April 2021 to provide a forum for leading financial institutions to accelerate the transition to a net-zero global economy in the Paris Agreement context.117 Accordingly, 450 financial organizations agreed to support clean technology development and "finance away from fossil fuel-burning."118 It is estimated that the Alliance could "deliver as much as $100 trillion of financing to help" a cleaner transition by 2050.119

Finally, the COP26 stated as urgent that "operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, multilateral development banks and other financial institutions . . . scale up investments in climate action"120 and "accelerate the alignment of their financing activities with the goals of the Paris Agreement."121

C. Further Meetings on Climate Change

The Egyptian government will host the next Conference of the Parties (COP27) in November 2022 and "has promised to make climate finance a central theme of the gathering."122 State members met in Bonn, Germany on December 6, 2021, and June 6, 2022 to address "technical issues and to prepare decisions for adoption" at COP27.123

On June 2, 2022, the United Nations "Stockholm+50" Conference took place.124 The four plenary sessions featured calls for bold actions to accelerate the implementation of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.125

D. Renewable Energy Developments in Africa and Latin America.

1. Africa

In 2022, several solar developments had been proposed in South Africa.126 Among them: (a) a request of the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Program to develop 1,000 MW on solar capacity; (b) an approved proposal by the National Energy Regulator to develop 200 MW of solar energy by Cape Town-based energy firm, SOLA Group; (c) a three-project plan to deploy up to 175 MW of solar capacity across the Mining firm, Sibanye-Stillwater sites; and, (d) a commitment of R2.3 billion by African Development Bank to help fund towards Redstone concentrated solar power project in the Northern Cape province.127

2. Latin America

A quarter of Latin America's primary energy comes from renewable energy, mostly hydropower.128 In 2021, Latin America installed more than "16.5 GW of . . . renewable capacity" and it is estimated that 13 GW of solar will be produced in 2022.129

Among some of the solar projects to be implemented are (a) "the supply and installation of photovoltaic equipment and internal installations in public buildings of 19 provinces of Argentina;" (b) A-4 2022 new energy auction [in Brazil], with 1894 registered projects approved to participate . . . (around 75,250 MW) including wind, photovoltaic, hydroelectric and biomass thermoelectric plants;" (c) 24 MW through "Solar Project Helios" and Grenergy Renovables in Colombia.130

* The Finance, Transactions and Investments Steering Committee thanks Jennifer Mersing, Bertha Silva, and Annette Moreno for their contributions to this report.

1. Exec. Order No. 14,008, 86 Fed. Reg. 7,619 (Feb. 1, 2021).

2. Id.

3. Id.

4. FACT SHEET: President Biden Takes Executive Actions to Tackle the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad, Create Jobs, and Restore Scientific Integrity Across Federal Government, White House (Jan. 27, 2021), https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takesexecutive-actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad-create-jobs-and-restore-scientific-integrityacross-federal-government/[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takesexecutive-actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad-create-jobs-and-restore-scientific-integrityacross-federal-government/].

5. Id.

6. George Strobel, Department of Commerce Decision Puts Fate of U.S. Solar Industry in Jeopardy, Forbes (May 27, 2022), https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesfinancecouncil/2022/05/27/department-of-commerce-decision-puts-fate-of-us-solar-industry-in-jeopardy/?sh=776548b4a67b[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesfinancecouncil/2022/05/27/department-of-commerce-decision-puts-fate-of-us-solar-industry-in-jeopardy/?sh=776548b4a67b].

7. Peter Maloney, Commerce Department to Investigate Solar Imports, Am. PUB. POWER Ass'N (Mar. 29, 2022), https://www.publicpower.org/periodical/article/commerce-department-investigate-solar-imports[https://www.publicpower.org/periodical/article/commerce-department-investigate-solar-imports].

8. Id.

9. Strobel, supra note 6.

10. IdU.S. Department of Commerce Investigation of Solar Panel Imports Puts Solar Projects at Risk, McGuire Woods (Apr. 15, 2022), https://www.mcguirewoods.com/client-resources/Alerts/2022/4/us-department-commerce-investigation-solar-panel-imports-puts-solar-projects-risk[https://www.mcguirewoods.com/client-resources/Alerts/2022/4/us-department-commerce-investigation-solar-panel-imports-puts-solar-projects-risk].

11. See Proclamation No. 10414, 87 FR 35,067 (June 6, 2022) (citing Tariff Act of 1930 § 318(a), 19 U.S.C. § 1318(a) (1930) to grant the Secretary of Commerce additional authority to respond to the issues raised in the Proclamation).

12. 19 U.S.C. § 1677j (1930).

13. 19 U.S.C. § 1671 (2012). See 19 U.S.C. § 1673 (1994).

14. 19 U.S.C. § 1675 (2016).

15. See Proclamation No. 10414, supra note 11.

16. Norton Rose Fulbright, Tariffs, Inflation and Other Challenges (2022), https://www.projectfinance.law/media/5762/pfn_0622a.pdf[https://www.projectfinance.law/media/5762/pfn_0622a.pdf].

17. Id. at 9.

18. Id. at 5, 9.

19 . Id.

20.President Biden Allows Duty-Free Importation of Solar Panels from Southeast Asia and Funding for Domestic Manufacturing, Akin GUMP (June 10, 2022), https://www.akingump.com/en/news-insights/president[https://www.akingump.com/en/news-insights/president]- biden-allows-duty-free-importation-of-solar-panels-from-southeast-asia-and-funding-for-domestic-manufacturing.html.

21. Russia has launched full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Kyiv says, REUTERS (Feb. 23, 2022, 10:35 PM), https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-has-launched-full-scale-invasion-ukraine-kyiv-says-2022-02-24/[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-has-launched-full-scale-invasion-ukraine-kyiv-says-2022-02-24/].

22. FACT SHEET: Joined by Allies and Partners, the United States Imposes Devastating Costs on Russia, WHITE House (Feb. 24, 2022), https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/factsheet-joined-by-allies-and-partners-the-united-states-imposes-devastating-costs-on-russia/[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/factsheet-joined-by-allies-and-partners-the-united-states-imposes-devastating-costs-on-russia/].

23. FACT SHEET: United States Bans Imports of Russian Oil, Liquefied Natural Gas, and Coal, WHITE House (Mar. 8, 2022), https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/08/fact-sheetunited-states-bans-imports-of-russian-oil-liquefied-natural-gas-and-coal/[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/08/fact-sheetunited-states-bans-imports-of-russian-oil-liquefied-natural-gas-and-coal/].

24. Mike Fulwood, Russian gas to the EU: to sanction or not to sanction, Oxford INST. FOR ENERGY STUD. (Apr. 2022), https://www.oxfordenergy.org/publications/russian-gas-to-the-eu-to-sanction-or-not-tosanction/[https://www.oxfordenergy.org/publications/russian-gas-to-the-eu-to-sanction-or-not-tosanction/].

25. See Russia's War on Ukraine: A Sanctions Timeline, PETERSON INST. FOR INT'L Econ., https://www.piie.com/blogs/realtime-economic-issues-watch/russias-war-ukraine-sanctions-timeline[https://www.piie.com/blogs/realtime-economic-issues-watch/russias-war-ukraine-sanctions-timeline] (last updated Oct. 7, 2022).

26. Exec. Order No. 14,066, 87 Fed. Reg. 13,625 (Mar. 8, 2022).

27. Id.

28. The United States Imports More Petroleum Products Than Crude Oil From Russia, U.S. ENERGY INFO. Admin. (Mar. 22, 2022), https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=51738[https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=51738].

29. Id.

30. Ending Importation of Russian Oil Act, H.R. 6968, 117th Cong. (2022).

31. Suspending Normal Trade Relations with Russia and Belarus Act, H.R. Res. 7108, 117th Cong. (2022).

32. Charlotte Edmond, How much energy does the EU import from Russia?, WORLD Econ. F. (Mar. 17, 2022), https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/03/eu-energy-russia-oil-gas-import/[https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/03/eu-energy-russia-oil-gas-import/].

33. Infographic: How much of your country's oil comes from Russia?, AL Jazeera, (Mar. 10, 2022), https://www.aļjazeera.com/news/2022/3/10/infographic-how-much-of-your-countrys-oil-comes-from-russia-interactive[https://www.aļjazeera.com/news/2022/3/10/infographic-how-much-of-your-countrys-oil-comes-from-russia-interactive].

34. Russia's aggression against Ukraine: EU adopts sixth package of sanctions, COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN Union (June 3, 2022), https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/06/03/russias-aggression-against-ukraine-eu-adopts-sixth-package-of-sanctions/[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/06/03/russias-aggression-against-ukraine-eu-adopts-sixth-package-of-sanctions/].

35. Id.

36. Ben Cahill, European Union Imposes Partial Ban on Russian Oil, CTR. FOR STRATEGIC & INT'L STUD. (June 8, 2022), https://www.csis.org/analysis/european-union-imposes-partial-ban-russian-oil[https://www.csis.org/analysis/european-union-imposes-partial-ban-russian-oil].

37. Id.

38. Council Regulation 2022/879 of June 3, 2022, Amending Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 Concerning Restrictive Measures in View of Russia's Actions Destabilizing the Situation in Ukraine, 2022 O.J. (L 153) 57; see Cahill, supra note 36.

39. Cahill, supra note 36.

40. Id. See Russian oil deliveries via the southern Druzhba pipeline halted, ENERDATA (Aug. 10, 2022), https://www.enerdata.net/publications/daily-energy-news/russian-oil-deliveries-southern-druzhba-pipelinehalted.html#:~:text=When[https://www.enerdata.net/publications/daily-energy-news/russian-oil-deliveries-southern-druzhba-pipelinehalted.html#:~:text=When].

41. Ben Cahill, Big Challenges for Russian Oil Price Cap, Ctr. FOR STRATEGIC & INT'L STUD. (Sept. 9, 2022), https://www.csis.org/analysis/big-challenges-russian-oil-price-cap[https://www.csis.org/analysis/big-challenges-russian-oil-price-cap].

42. Manoj Sharma, Russia now accounts for 18% of India's crude imports; up from 1%, FORTUNE INDIA (June 13, 2022), https://www.fortuneindia.com/macro/indias-crude-oil-imports-from-russia-rise-to-18-from-1before-ukraine-war/108574[https://www.fortuneindia.com/macro/indias-crude-oil-imports-from-russia-rise-to-18-from-1before-ukraine-war/108574].

43. India's imports of Russian Oil Grow, ASSOCIATED PRESS (June 14, 2022), https://www.nwaonline.com/news/2022/jun/14/indias-imports-of-russian-oil-grow/[https://www.nwaonline.com/news/2022/jun/14/indias-imports-of-russian-oil-grow/].

44. India and China increasingly welcome shunned Russian oil, PBS (June 13, 2022, 8:33 AM), https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/india-and-china-increasingly-welcome-shunned-russian-oil[https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/india-and-china-increasingly-welcome-shunned-russian-oil]; see Lauri Myllyvirta et al., Financing Putin's War: Fossil Fuel Imports from Russia in the First 100 Days of the Invasion, CTR. FOR Rsch. ON Energy and Clean air (June 12, 2022), https://energyandcleanair.org/publication/russianfossil-exports-first100-days[https://energyandcleanair.org/publication/russianfossil-exports-first100-days]

45. Robert Perkins, Russian seaborne oil exports at 3-year highs despite sanctions shake-up, S&P GLOBAL (June 16, 2022), https://www.spglobal.com/commodityinsights/en/market-insights/latest-news/oil/061522-russia-seaborne-oil-exports-at-3-year-highs-despite-sanctions-shakeup#:~:text=In%20the%20first%20two%20weeks,million%20b%2Fd%20in%20February[https://www.spglobal.com/commodityinsights/en/market-insights/latest-news/oil/061522-russia-seaborne-oil-exports-at-3-year-highs-despite-sanctions-shakeup#:~:text=In%20the%20first%20two%20weeks,million%20b%2Fd%20in%20February].

46. Id.

47. Myllyvirta et al., supra note 44, at 2.

48. Perkins, supra note 45.

49. Victor Jack & Sarah Anne Aarup, Western sanctions sting but don't devastate Russia's economy, POLITICO (July 26, 2022, 4:44 PM), https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/07/western-sanctions-stingbut-dont-devastate-russias-economy-00048034?source=email[https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/07/western-sanctions-stingbut-dont-devastate-russias-economy-00048034?source=email].

50. Commerce Takes Further Actions to Target Russian Strategic Industries and Punish Enablers of Aggression, U.S. DEP'T OF Com. (Mar. 4, 2022), https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2022/03/commerce-takes-further-actions-target-russian-strategic-industries-and[https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2022/03/commerce-takes-further-actions-target-russian-strategic-industries-and].

51. Id.

52. Id.

53. See Russia's military aggression against Ukraine: fourth EU package of sectoral and individual measures, COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (Mar. 15, 2022), https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/pressreleases/2022/03/15/russia-s-military-aggression-against-ukraine-fourth-eu-package-of-sectoral-and-individualmeasures/[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/pressreleases/2022/03/15/russia-s-military-aggression-against-ukraine-fourth-eu-package-of-sectoral-and-individualmeasures/].

54. COUNCIL OF the European Union, supra note 34; Jackie Northam, The EU moves to bar insurance on ships carrying Russian oil. It'd be a big blow, NPR (June 3, 2022, 5:11 PM), https://www.npr.org/2022/06/03/1102990015/the-eu-will-likely-bar-insurance-on-ships-carrying-russian-oilitd-be-a-big-blow[https://www.npr.org/2022/06/03/1102990015/the-eu-will-likely-bar-insurance-on-ships-carrying-russian-oilitd-be-a-big-blow].

55. Cahill, supra note 36. See Northam, supra note 54.

56.Ciara Nugent, Why Sanctions on Russia Aren't Targeting Oil and Gas, TIME (Feb. 25, 2022, 2:55 PM), https://time.com/6151493/russia-oil-gas-embargo-sanctions-ukraine/[https://time.com/6151493/russia-oil-gas-embargo-sanctions-ukraine/].

57. Tom Espiner, EU told to prepare for Russian gas shut-off, BBC NEWS (July 20, 2022), https://www.bbc.com/news/business-62230201[https://www.bbc.com/news/business-62230201].

58. Clifford Krauss, Europe's Quest to Replace Russian Gas Faces Plenty of Hurdles, N.Y. TIMES (May 5, 2022), https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/05/business/energy-environment/natural-gas-europe-russiaukraine.html#:~:text=Climate%20concerns%2C%20investor%20reticence%20and,North%20Africa%20and%20the%20Mediterranean[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/05/business/energy-environment/natural-gas-europe-russiaukraine.html#:~:text=Climate%20concerns%2C%20investor%20reticence%20and,North%20Africa%20and%20the%20Mediterranean].

59. Liz Hampton et al., Freeport LNG plant blast adds to strain on global supplies, REUTERS (June 9, 2022, 4:56 AM), https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/explosion-hits-freeport-lng-plant-us-natgas-pricesplunge-2022-06-08/[https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/explosion-hits-freeport-lng-plant-us-natgas-pricesplunge-2022-06-08/]; U.S. liquefied natural gas exports to Europe increased during the first 4 months of 2022, U.S. ENERGY Info. Admin (June 7, 2022), https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=52659#:~:text=During%20the%20first%20four%20months,EIA%20estimates%20for%20April%202022[https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=52659#:~:text=During%20the%20first%20four%20months,EIA%20estimates%20for%20April%202022].

60. Liz Hampton et al., supra note 59; U.S. liquefied natural gas exports to Europe increased during the first 4 months of 2022, supra note 59.

61. Sam Meredith, Russian has cut offgas supplies to Europe indefinitely. Here's what you need to know, CNBC, https://www.cnbc.com/2022/09/06/energy-crisis-why-has-russia-cut-off-gas-supplies-to-europe.html[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/09/06/energy-crisis-why-has-russia-cut-off-gas-supplies-to-europe.html] (last updated Sept. 6, 2022, 8:30 PM).

62. Joseph Nasr & Mark Trevelyan, Putin tells Europe: Pay in roubles or we'll cut off your gas, REUTERS (Mar. 31, 2022, 3:03 PM), https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/russia-sets-deadline-rouble-gas-paymentseurope-calls-it-blackmail-2022-03-31/[https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/russia-sets-deadline-rouble-gas-paymentseurope-calls-it-blackmail-2022-03-31/].

63. Id.

64. Id.

65. Espiner, supra note 57; Jorge Liboreiro, Which EU countries have been totally or partially cut off from Russian gas?, EURONEWS (July 7, 2022), https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/07/07/which-eu-countries-have-been-totally-or-partially-cut-off-from-russian-gas#:~:text=In%20late%20April%2C%20Poland%20and,pay%20their%20bills%20in%20roubles[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/07/07/which-eu-countries-have-been-totally-or-partially-cut-off-from-russian-gas#:~:text=In%20late%20April%2C%20Poland%20and,pay%20their%20bills%20in%20roubles].

66. See Russia to cut gas through Nord Stream 1 to 20% of capacity, ASSOCIATED PRESS (July 25, 2022) https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-germany-government-and-politics1acacc374cd6d9bc860de00a73b8abee[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-germany-government-and-politics1acacc374cd6d9bc860de00a73b8abee].

67. Id.

68. Mark Flanagan et al., How a Russian Natural Gas Cutoff Could Weigh on Europe's Economies, IMF (July 19, 2022) https://blogs.imf.org/2022/07/19/how-a-russian-natural-gas-cutoff-could-weigh-on-europeseconomies[https://blogs.imf.org/2022/07/19/how-a-russian-natural-gas-cutoff-could-weigh-on-europeseconomies].

69. Espiner, supra note 57.

70. Jack & Aarup, supra note 49.

71. Id.

72. Jorge Liboreiro & Alice Tidey, Energy ministers reach deal on EU-wide 15% gas reduction plan, EURONEWS (July 26, 2022) https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/07/26/energy-ministers-reach-deal-oneu-wide-gas-reduction-plan[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/07/26/energy-ministers-reach-deal-oneu-wide-gas-reduction-plan].

73. Id.

74. Id.

75. America Hernandez, Countries agree on mandatory gas cut regulation, POLITICO (July 26, 2022, 2:17 PM), https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/07/countries-agree-on-mandatory-gas-cut-regulation-document-00047964?source=email[https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/07/countries-agree-on-mandatory-gas-cut-regulation-document-00047964?source=email]; Liboreiro & Tidey, supra note 72.

76. Holly Ellyatt, Nord Stream 2 cost $11 billion to build. Now, the Russia-Europe gas pipeline is unused and abandoned, CNBC, https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/31/the-nord-stream-2-pipeline-lies-abandoned-afterrussia-invaded-ukraine.html[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/31/the-nord-stream-2-pipeline-lies-abandoned-afterrussia-invaded-ukraine.html] (last updated Mar. 31, 2022, 2:28 AM). See Russia's Nord Stream 2 Natural Gas Pipeline to Germany Halted, CONG. RSCH. SERV., https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF11138[https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF11138] (last updated Mar. 10, 2022) (providing more details on Nord Stream 2).

77. Cong. Rsch. Serv., supra note 76.

78. Id.

79. Id.

80. Id.

81. Cong. Rsch. Serv., supra note 76.

82. Id.

83. Id.

84. U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change, Mar. 21, 1994, 1771 U.N.T.S. 165, S. Treaty Doc. 102-38.

85. Id.

86. History of the IPCC, INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE, https://www.ipcc.ch/about/history/[https://www.ipcc.ch/about/history/].

87. Id.

88. See Working Groups, INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE, https://www.ipcc.ch/working-groups/[https://www.ipcc.ch/working-groups/].

89. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change: The IPCC Scientific ASSESSMENT XII (2018), https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/03/ipcc_far_wg_I_full_report.pdf[https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/03/ipcc_far_wg_I_full_report.pdf].

90. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Summary for Policymakers 4 (2018), https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/ipcc_wg3_ar5_summary-for-policymakers.pdf[https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/ipcc_wg3_ar5_summary-for-policymakers.pdf]. See Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, IPCC Factsheet: Timeline - highlights of IPCC HISTORY (July 2021), https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2021/07/AR6_FS_timeline.pdf[https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2021/07/AR6_FS_timeline.pdf].

91. Summary for policymakers, supra note 90, at 10.

92. Paris Agreement art. 2(1)(a), Apr. 22, 2016, 3156 U.N.T.S. 27.

93. Id.

94. Id.

95. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change 2021: The Physical SCIENCE Basis (2021), https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/downloads/report/IPCC_AR6_WGI_FullReport.pdf[https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/downloads/report/IPCC_AR6_WGI_FullReport.pdf].

96. United Nations, Report of the Conference of the Parties Serving on its twenty-sixth SESSION, HELD IN GLASGOW FROM 31 OCTOBER TO 13 NOVEMBER 2021 PART TWO: ACTION TAKEN BY THE Conference of the Parties at its twenty-sixth session (Mar. 8, 2022), https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/cma2021_10_add1_adv.pdf[https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/cma2021_10_add1_adv.pdf].

97. United Nations, COP26 The Glasgow Climate Pact, https://ukcop26.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/COP26-Presidency-Outcomes-The-Climate-Pact.pdf[https://ukcop26.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/COP26-Presidency-Outcomes-The-Climate-Pact.pdf].

98. United Nations, Report of the Conference of the Parties Serving as the meeting of the parties TO THE PARIS AGREEMENT ON ITS THIRD SESSION, HELD IN GLASGOW FROM 31 OCTOBER TO 13 November 2022 Part One: Proceedings (Mar. 8, 2022), https://unfccc.int/documents/460942[https://unfccc.int/documents/460942].

99. Id. at 14.

100. Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement Decision 1/CMA.3 (March 8, 2022).

101. Id. at ¶ 21.

102. Id. at ¶ 22.

103. Id. at ¶ 36.

104. India preparing to submit new climate targets to UN in September, Straits Times (July 13, 2022), https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/south-asia/india-preparing-to-submit-new-climate-targets-to-un-in-september[https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/south-asia/india-preparing-to-submit-new-climate-targets-to-un-in-september].

105. U.S.-China Joint Glasgow Declaration on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s, U.S. Dep'T OF STATE (Nov. 10, 2021), https://www.state.gov/u-s-china-joint-glasgow-declaration-on-enhancing-climate-action-in-the-2020s/[https://www.state.gov/u-s-china-joint-glasgow-declaration-on-enhancing-climate-action-in-the-2020s/].

106 . Id.

107. Id.

108. Id.

109. U.S. DEP'T OF State, supra note 105.

110. Id.

111. The Glasgow climate pact, annotated, WASH. POST (Nov. 13, 2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/climate-environment/interactive/2021/glasgow-climate-pact-full-text-cop26/[https://www.washingtonpost.com/climate-environment/interactive/2021/glasgow-climate-pact-full-text-cop26/].

112. Id.

113. Dr. Adriana Erthal Abdenur, The Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests: Déja Vu or Solid Restart?, United Nations Univ., Ctr. for Pol'y Rsch. 1 (2022), https://collections.unu.edu/eserv/UNU:8669/COP26ForestGovernance.pdf[https://collections.unu.edu/eserv/UNU:8669/COP26ForestGovernance.pdf].

114. Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests and Land Use, UN CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE UK 2021 (Feb. 11, 2021), https://ukcop26.org/glasgow-leaders-declaration-on-forests-and-land-use/[https://ukcop26.org/glasgow-leaders-declaration-on-forests-and-land-use/].

115. Chloé Farand, Donor nations commit $1.7bn to help indigenous people protect forests, CLIMATE HOME News (Feb. 11, 2021, 4:54 PM), https://www.climatechangenews.com/2021/11/02/donor-nations-commit1-7bn-help-indigenous-people-protect-forests/[https://www.climatechangenews.com/2021/11/02/donor-nations-commit1-7bn-help-indigenous-people-protect-forests/].

116. Global Leaders Pledge to End Deforestation by 2030, N.Y. TIMES, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/11/02/climate/cop26-deforestation.html[https://www.nytimes.com/2021/11/02/climate/cop26-deforestation.html] (last updated Nov. 10, 2021).

117. About Us, Glasgow Fin. All. for Net Zero, https://www.gfanzero.com/about/[https://www.gfanzero.com/about/].

118. Angus King-Davies et al., Summary of COP26 Deal: The Glasgow Climate Pact, TENEO (Nov. 15, 2021), https://www.teneo.com/summary-of-cop26-deal-the-glasgow-climate-pact/[https://www.teneo.com/summary-of-cop26-deal-the-glasgow-climate-pact/].

119. Id.

120. Part Two: Action taken By the Conference of the Parties at its twenty-sixth session, supra note 96, at Art. V, ¶ 47.

121. Id. at Art. V, ¶ 55.

122. Zack Colman & Karl Mathiesen, Hype or hope? The rich country strategy to pay nations to ditch coal, PoliticoPro (Jun. 15, 2022), https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/06/hype-or-hope-the-rich-countrystrategy-to-pay-nations-to-ditch-coal-00039418[https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/06/hype-or-hope-the-rich-countrystrategy-to-pay-nations-to-ditch-coal-00039418].

123. Bonn Climate Change Conference Makes Progress in Several Technical Areas, But Much Work Remains, United Nations Climate Change (Jun. 16, 2022), https://unfccc.int/news/bonn-climate-change-conference-makes-progress-in-several-technical-areas-but-much-work-remains[https://unfccc.int/news/bonn-climate-change-conference-makes-progress-in-several-technical-areas-but-much-work-remains].

124. Summary of Stockholm+50, 2-3 June 2022, INT'L INST. FOR SUSTAINABLE DEV. (June 6, 2022), https://enb.iisd.org/stockholm50-summary[https://enb.iisd.org/stockholm50-summary].

125 . Id.

126. Top 5 Solar Developments in South Africa, ENERGY Cap. & POWER, https://energycapitalpower.com/south-africa-solar-energy-2022-projects/[https://energycapitalpower.com/south-africa-solar-energy-2022-projects/].

127. Id.

128. Latin America and the Caribbean, INT'L RENEWABLE ENERGY AGENCY, https://www.irena.org/lac[https://www.irena.org/lac].

129. Leila Garcia de Fonseca, Why 2022 will be a record year for Latin American power and renewables, WOOD Mackenzie (Jan. 21, 2021), https://www.woodmac.com/news/opimon/why-2022-will-be-a-record-yearfor-latin-american-power-and-renewables-2022-outlook/[https://www.woodmac.com/news/opimon/why-2022-will-be-a-record-yearfor-latin-american-power-and-renewables-2022-outlook/].

130. Erick Hernández Gallego, Renewable Energy in Latin America Updates May 2022, Nat'L Law Rev. (May 11, 2022), https://www.natlawreview.com/article/renewable-energy-latin-america-updates-may-2022[https://www.natlawreview.com/article/renewable-energy-latin-america-updates-may-2022].

Energy Bar Association

文件 NRGLAW0020230104ei710000c


Ukraine halted oil flows to Europe over payment issue, Russia's Transneft says
828 字
2022 年 8 月 9 日 16:18 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
MOSCOW (Reuters) -Ukraine has suspended Russian oil pipeline flows to parts of central Europe since early this month because Western sanctions prevented it from accepting transit fees from Moscow, Russian pipeline monopoly Transneft said on Tuesday.

International benchmark Brent crude jumped by $2 per barrel to trade near $98 as the news added to energy supply concerns, but turned negative later in the day. [O/R]

Europe is heavily reliant on Russian crude, diesel, natural gas and coal. Energy prices have rallied this year on short supply as Europe scrambles to replace Russian energy with alternative sources.

Flows along the southern route of the Druzhba pipeline have been affected while the northern route serving Poland and Germany remains uninterrupted.

The suspension of pipeline flows on Tuesday will hit countries such as Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which all rely heavily on Russian crude and have limited ability to import alternative supply by sea.

The fact that refiners have to import seaborne oil on such short notice will make the job to secure alternative supply even more difficult in an already tight oil market, traders said.

Hungarian energy firm MOL and Slovak pipeline operator Transpetrol confirmed flows have been halted for a few days over the payment of transit fees.

MOL said it had reserves for several weeks and was working on a solution. MOL's oil refiner Slovnaft said that it initiated discussions with Ukraine and Russian partners on possible payment of the transit fee by Slovnaft or MOL.

Hungary is one of the most reliant countries on Russia oil and its government has been lobbying hard to get exemption from wider EU sanctions on Moscow.

Hungary can import oil via Adria pipeline that connects the Omisalj oil terminal in Croatia to its Duna refinery in Hungary, but the capacity of the route is limited and shipments are much more expensive than via Druzhba.

Slovakia's options for alternative oil imports are even more limited as it has to import oil via Hungary.

Poland's PKN Orlen, which controls refiner Unipetrol in the Czech Republic, may secure alternative supplies from Trieste in Italy via the Transalpine (TAL) pipeline, though the route is operating close to its limited capacity and might not be enough to fulfil feedstock needs, traders said.

The Czech Republic's pipeline company MERO has operative oil stocks that can last at least until the second half of August, and the government is not currently planning to tap its near 90-day strategic reserve, Industry Minister Jozef Sikela said on Tuesday.

MERO said it expected Russian oil supplies through the Druzhba pipeline to the Czech Republic to restart within several days.

Russia's Transneft said it made payments for August oil transit to Ukrainian pipeline operator UkrTransNafta on July 22, but the money was returned on July 28 as the payment did not go through.

It said the shipments were halted from Aug. 4.

Transneft said in a statement that Gazprombank, which handled the payment, told it the money was returned because of European Union restrictions.

SANCTION RULES

Under the new sanctions, European banks have to receive approval from a relevant government authority instead of deciding by themselves whether to allow a transaction, Transneft said.

It said European regulators had yet to decide on algorithms for all the banks, which complicates the dealings.

Transneft is considering alternative payment systems, but had sent a request for the transaction to be allowed, the pipeline monopoly said.

MOL and Unipetrol are the main buyers of oil via the Druzhba route, also known as the Friendship pipeline, while Russia's Lukoil, Rosneft and Tatneft are the main suppliers of oil.

UkrTransNafta did not respond to a request for comment.

Since March, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have relied extensively on supplies of Russian Urals crude via the Druzhba pipeline and reduced purchases of maritime crude.

A decline in European demand for Russian oil since Russia invaded Ukraine at the end of February has pushed the value of seaborne Urals, used to price Druzhba deliveries, to the widest discount in history against the dated Brent benchmark.

Moscow refers to the invasion as a "special military operation".

Russia normally supplies about 250,000 barrels per day (bpd)via the southern leg of the Druzhba pipeline. If the supplies remain suspended Russian oil exporters will have to divert volumes to sea ports, traders said.

Russian oil loadings from its western ports of Primorsk, Ust-Luga and Novorossiisk were set at 8.74 million tonnes in August.

Russia, the world's second biggest oil exporter and leading gas exporter, has already reduced gas pipeline flows to many EU members, citing problems with turbine maintenance on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline as well as sanctions against some buyers Moscow describes as "unfriendly".

(Reporting by Reuters; editing by Barbara Lewis, Jason Neely and Jane Merriman)

Released: 2022-8-9T16:18:21.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220809ei8901qqd


Ukraine Halted Oil Flows to Europe over Payment Issue, Russia’s Transneft Says
Asharq Al-Awsat
808 字
2022 年 8 月 9 日
Asharq Al-Awsat
ASHAL
英文
© 2022, Asharq Al-Awsat (English Edition), All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Ukraine has suspended Russian oil pipeline flows to parts of central Europe since early this month because Western sanctions prevented it from accepting transit fees from Moscow, Russian pipeline monopoly Transneft said on Tuesday.

International benchmark Brent crude jumped by $2 per barrel to trade near $98 as the news added to energy supply concerns, but turned negative later in the day.

Europe is heavily reliant on Russian crude, diesel, natural gas and coal. Energy prices have rallied this year on short supply as Europe scrambles to replace Russian energy with alternative sources.

Flows along the southern route of the Druzhba pipeline have been affected while the northern route serving Poland and Germany remains uninterrupted.

The suspension of pipeline flows on Tuesday will hit countries such as Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which all rely heavily on Russian crude and have limited ability to import alternative supply by sea.

The fact that refiners have to import seaborne oil on such short notice will make the job to secure alternative supply even more difficult in an already tight oil market, traders said.

Hungarian energy firm MOL and Slovak pipeline operator Transpetrol confirmed flows have been halted for a few days over the payment of transit fees.

MOL said it had reserves for several weeks and was working on a solution. MOL's oil refiner Slovnaft said that it initiated discussions with Ukraine and Russian partners on possible payment of the transit fee by Slovnaft or MOL.

Hungary is one of the most reliant countries on Russia oil and its government has been lobbying hard to get exemption from wider EU sanctions on Moscow.

Hungary can import oil via Adria pipeline that connects the Omisalj oil terminal in Croatia to its Duna refinery in Hungary, but the capacity of the route is limited and shipments are much more expensive than via Druzhba.

Slovakia's options for alternative oil imports are even more limited as it has to import oil via Hungary.

Poland's PKN Orlen, which controls refiner Unipetrol in the Czech Republic, may secure alternative supplies from Trieste in Italy via the Transalpine (TAL) pipeline, though the route is operating close to its limited capacity and might not be enough to fulfil feedstock needs, traders said.

The Czech Republic's pipeline company MERO has operative oil stocks that can last at least until the second half of August, and the government is not currently planning to tap its near 90-day strategic reserve, Industry Minister Jozef Sikela said on Tuesday.

MERO said it expected Russian oil supplies through the Druzhba pipeline to the Czech Republic to restart within several days.

Russia's Transneft said it made payments for August oil transit to Ukrainian pipeline operator UkrTransNafta on July 22, but the money was returned on July 28 as the payment did not go through.

It said the shipments were halted from Aug. 4.

Transneft said in a statement that Gazprombank, which handled the payment, told it the money was returned because of European Union restrictions.

Sanction rules

Under the new sanctions, European banks have to receive approval from a relevant government authority instead of deciding by themselves whether to allow a transaction, Transneft said.

It said European regulators had yet to decide on algorithms for all the banks, which complicates the dealings.

Transneft is considering alternative payment systems, but had sent a request for the transaction to be allowed, the pipeline monopoly said.

MOL and Unipetrol are the main buyers of oil via the Druzhba route, also known as the Friendship pipeline, while Russia's Lukoil, Rosneft and Tatneft are the main suppliers of oil.

UkrTransNafta did not respond to a request for comment.

Since March, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have relied extensively on supplies of Russian Urals crude via the Druzhba pipeline and reduced purchases of maritime crude.

A decline in European demand for Russian oil since Russia invaded Ukraine at the end of February has pushed the value of seaborne Urals, used to price Druzhba deliveries, to the widest discount in history against the dated Brent benchmark.

Moscow refers to the invasion as a "special military operation".

Russia normally supplies about 250,000 barrels per day (bpd) via the southern leg of the Druzhba pipeline. If the supplies remain suspended Russian oil exporters will have to divert volumes to sea ports, traders said.

Russian oil loadings from its western ports of Primorsk, Ust-Luga and Novorossiisk were set at 8.74 million tons in August.

Russia, the world's second biggest oil exporter and leading gas exporter, has already reduced gas pipeline flows to many EU members, citing problems with turbine maintenance on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline as well as sanctions against some buyers Moscow describes as "unfriendly".

Saudi Research and Marketing

文件 ASHAL00020220810ei8900001


Oil supplies to Czechia to resume on Fri or Sat - Mero head Pantucek
460 字
2022 年 8 月 11 日 12:21 GMT
CTK Business News
CTK
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
adds Finance Ministry's statement in para 6, updates paras 5,7

Prague, Aug 11 (CTK) - Oil supplies to Czechia via the Druzhba pipeline could resume on Friday or Saturday, while oil flows to Slovakia and Hungary have already restarted, Jaroslav Pantucek, board chairman of Czech pipeline operator Mero, said on the public Czech Television (CT) today.

Ukraine stopped oil transit on August 4 because it had not received payment from Russia for the August transit. Russia did send the money, but it was returned in July as a result of anti-Russian sanctions. The transit fee was then sent to Ukraine by Slovak refinery Slovnaft and its Hungarian owner, petrochemical group MOL, in order to resume oil supplies. However, this solution does not concern supplies to Czechia, according to Slovak oil transporter Transpetrol.

"MOL's customer has taken the appropriate steps to make the southern part of the pipeline work for the Slovaks and Hungarians. I have been informed by our customer that it is taking identical steps today, so I expect that very soon, either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow (Friday or Saturday) at the latest, oil will be flowing to us as well," Pantucek said.

In Czechia, crude oil is processed by the Unipetrol company, which is owned by Poland's PKN Orlen.

It is necessary to get the state's permission to exempt the transit fees from EU sanctions, to pay them and thus unblock the situation, Pantucek said. The permission is issued by the Financial Analytical Office (FAU).

The FAU has already performed all the actions in its competence necessary to allow oil to flow to Czechia again, in line with sanction regulations, Finance Ministry spokeswoman Michaela Lagronova told CTK today. The transit fees can therefore be paid.

The fees are paid per month and if the FAU approves their payment, the same method could be used next month as well, said Pantucek.

There is no reason for concern, as Czechia has oil reserves for at least 12 more days in operating stocks for refineries and another 90 days in the state material reserves, he said. Czechia also has a full-fledged supply option via the Transalpine Pipeline (TAL) from Trieste, Italy, he added.

Mero owns and operates the Czech part of Druzhba and the IKL pipeline, which connects Czechia to TAL.

The Druzhba oil pipeline starts in Russia on the eastern bank of the Volga river and divides into two branches in Belarus - the northern one leads to Poland and Germany, while the southern one leads via Ukraine to Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. According to earlier information, transit via the northern branch has not been suspended.

hel/er

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTK0000020220811ei8b0000b


Czech Republic This Week - August 12, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 12 日, 9551 字, (英文)
Fuel prices in Czechia fall for the first time in monthsFuel prices in Czechia fell for the first time in months, dropping below CZK42 per litre for the first time since February.

Energo Monitor This Week - August 12, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 12 日, 11270 字, (英文)
Armenia generated 14.8% y/y more energy in 1H22In Armenia, power generating facilities developed over 3.8bn kWh of electricity in the first half of 2022, making growth 14.8% y/y.

Russia This Week - August 12, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 12 日, 55176 字, (英文)
Russian oil imports to resume this week, says Czech pipeline operatorCzech state-owned pipeline operator Mero says that a payment will be made to Ukrainian pipeline operator Uktransnafta to unblock supplies of Russian crude to the country.

Ukraine This Week - August 12, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 12 日, 31959 字, (英文)
Russian oil imports to resume this week, says Czech pipeline operatorCzech state-owned pipeline operator Mero says that a payment will be made to Ukrainian pipeline operator Uktransnafta to unblock supplies of Russian crude to the country.

European Court of Human Rights judgment: CASE OF P.H. v. SLOVAKIA
10774 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Brussels: European Court of Human Rights has issued the following judgment:

FIRST SECTION

CASE OF P.H. v. SLOVAKIA

(Application no. 37574/19)

JUDGMENT

Art 2 (procedural and substantive) • Life • Positive obligations • Ineffective investigation into incident involving applicant falling out of second-floor window at a police station, where she was being questioned after arrest • Respondent State responsible for applicant's injuries, in the light of officer's failure to continuously watch her under domestic rules for escorting persons

STRASBOURG

8 September 2022

This judgment will become final in the circumstances set out in Article 44 § 2 of the Convention. It may be subject to editorial revision.

In the case of P.H. v. Slovakia, The European Court of Human Rights (First Section), sitting as a Chamber composed of:

Marko Bošnjak, President, Péter Paczolay, Alena Poláčková, Erik Wennerström, Raffaele Sabato, Lorraine Schembri Orland, Davor Derenčinović, judges, and Renata Degener, Section Registrar, Having regard to:

the application (no. 37574/19) against the Slovak Republic lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ("the Convention") by a Slovak national, P.H., on 4 July 2019;

the decision to give notice of the application to the Government of the Slovak Republic ("the Government");

the decision not to disclose the applicant's name;

the observations submitted by the Government and the observations in reply submitted by the applicant;

the comments submitted by (i) Harvard Law School Project on Disability and Centre For Disability Law and Policy ("the HPOD" and "the CDLP", respectively), (ii) the European Roma Rights Centre ("the ERRC"), and (iii) Validity (Mental Disability Advocacy Centre), which were granted leave to intervene by the President of the Section, and the parties' observations in reply;

Having deliberated in private on 3 May and 5 July 2022, Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date:

INTRODUCTION

1. This case concerns the incident of the applicant falling out of a second‑floor window of a police station, where she was being questioned following her arrest on suspicion of theft. It focuses on the question whether the State discharged its duties to ensure the applicant's well-being and to carry out an effective investigation into the incident.

THE FACTS

2. The applicant was represented by Ms V. Durbáková, a lawyer practising in Košice.

3. The Government were represented by their Agent, Ms M. Bálintová.

4. The facts of the case may be summarised as follows.

ARREST AND TRANSPORT TO POLICE STATION

5. On 17 January 2017, when the applicant was sixteen years and four months old, a police patrol consisting of Officers A. and B. was called to a shopping mall where she had been caught red-handed while committing petty theft. Her brother was also present.

6. The patrol checked the applicant's identity, she confessed to the theft, and it was established from the police database that some eight months earlier she had been found guilty of a similar minor offence.

7. At around 3 p.m. the patrol took charge of the applicant and put her in a police car with a view to transporting her to the local county police station for further procedural steps to be taken in relation to the incident. No coercive measures were applied. The applicant's brother was also taken to the police station by another unit and in another car.

8. In the car, the applicant was seated in the back while Officers A. and B. sat in the front. The parties' accounts concerning the transport diverge as follows.

9. The applicant stated that the officers had told her that she would be put in a cage, used insulting language having to do with her Romani origin, and each of them had slapped her once. The Government on the other hand argued that no physical or verbal abuse had taken place. In support of that position, they relied on an entry in the county police logbook concerning the shift of the patrol on the given day and on a note on the record dated 17 January 2017 and drawn up by Officer A. These documents indicate that no coercive measures had been applied during the transport since the applicant was a minor who had not resisted and had cooperated, and there had been no grounds for concern that she might try to abscond.

EVENTS AT THE POLICE STATION

10. According to the documents mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the events at the police station unfolded as follows.

11. On arrival, (i) the applicant confessed to having committed three other similar acts of theft earlier that day, (ii) at 3.24 p.m. the case was brought to the attention of the supervising prosecutor, who instructed that the applicant should not be detained but be released after the necessary paperwork had been filled in, and (iii) Officer A. immediately informed the applicant of the prosecutor's instructions.

12. The applicant was then searched by a female officer. Afterwards, Officer A. began to fill in various records concerning the case, in the process of which he was alone with the applicant and continued communicating with her. As she repeatedly asked to be allowed to use the toilet, Officer A. accompanied her to the bathroom. As she was cooperative and had been informed that she would be released, there was no concern that she might attempt to flee, and no other officer was requested to go with them.

13. As would later be noted in the minutes of an in situ inspection, carried out between 7 and 8.30 p.m. of the same day, the bathroom was situated on the second floor of the police station, at the end of a corridor ending in a wall with a window. The size of the window was 116 by 140 cm and its sill was 90 cm above the ground. It opened by tilting along the horizontal axis in its middle, providing a maximum opening of 60 by 102 cm. The door to the area with the ladies' bathroom was situated immediately next to the window, in the right wall of the corridor leading to the window. Behind the door, there was a small room with a washbasin and another door, situated opposite the first door, leading to another small room, on the right side of which there was a glass door to a room with the toilet in.

14. According to the above-mentioned documents, in the corridor at the door to the area with the ladies' bathroom, Officer A. showed the applicant where the toilet was and, since he was less than a metre away from her and had seen her entering that area, he turned his back to the door, intending to wait until the applicant was ready. As he was turning, he noted in his peripheral vision a shadow in front of the door to the bathroom area. He turned towards it and saw the applicant falling out of the open window to the ground in front of the police station. As noted in the minutes of the in situ inspection, the bottom edge of the window was 770 cm above the ground, which was grass covered with snow that had been walked on. In front of the window, there was a pine tree the trunk of which was 143 cm away from the building and one branch of this tree, 260 centimetres above the ground, was not covered by snow.

15. The above-mentioned documentation concludes that Officer A. then alerted his colleagues and an emergency ambulance was called to attend to the applicant who was lying on the ground in front of the police station making an indistinct sound.

16. The applicant for her part submitted that she had no recollection of the events preceding and surrounding her fall from the window, but that it was likely that the type of treatment to which she had been exposed during her transport to the police station had continued there.

17. In the course of the proceedings before the Court, the applicant submitted a written statement made on 23 March 2021 by her brother, to the effect that when the police car with the applicant had arrived at the police station on 17 January 2017, he had already been there and had witnessed the police car arriving and seen her crying intensely. At the police station, the applicant had been taken to different premises from those where her brother was but he had heard her shouting to be released because she had not done anything and he had also heard a female voice shouting threats, insults and racial slurs at the applicant. He had then seen police officers running down the stairs and shouting that his sister had jumped out of the window.

APPLICANT'S PHYSICAL INJURIES AND TREATMENT

18. On 17 January 2017 at 4.47 p.m. a doctor attending to the applicant at the emergency reception of a hospital ordered a full-body examination by computed tomography scan. In two reports issued on that day at 5.26 p.m. and 5.44 p.m. by that and another doctor, they noted that after her fall the applicant had been found unconscious and established that, at the time they saw her, she was analgo-sedated and there was no sign of any injury to her skull, spine, organs of the abdominal cavity or pelvis. Nevertheless, she was diagnosed with an unspecified endocranial injury, four rib fractures, four other skeletal fractures and a pneumothorax on one side.

19. A hospital-admission report of 17 January 2017 confirmed the above injuries and noted that the applicant was analgo-sedated, in a coma, and suffering from polytrauma, and that she had contusions to both of her lungs.

20. In the applicant's own submission, she was in a coma for more than a month.

21. According to a report on her discharge from hospital on 24 February 2017, the applicant was discharged in good health with no restrictions on her ability to move. The report also indicated that no surgical intervention had been required, conservative treatment being sufficient. Nevertheless, it was observed that the applicant was suffering from a "quantitative disruption of consciousness".

22. Another doctor saw the applicant on 3 March 2017 and recorded, in a report of that day, that she was feeling fine and could walk alone but that she became out of breath if walking for a long period. It was also noted that she was due for a check-up by a traumatologist and that outpatient rehabilitation was required.

INVESTIGATION INTO THE INCIDENT AT THE POLICE STATION

23. On 18 January 2017 an investigator of the Inspection Service of the Ministry of the Interior ("the Inspection Service") opened criminal proceedings concerning the applicant's fall but the decision was quashed by the Public Prosecution Service ("the PPS") on the grounds that the elements of the suspected crime had not been properly defined.

24. Meanwhile, on 23 January and 15 February 2017, the investigator had enquired as to the possibility of interviewing the applicant. On the former occasion, it was established that she was still in a medically induced sleep. On the latter occasion, while she was still hospitalised, her doctor recommended that she not be questioned.

25. On 10 March 2017 the investigator again opened criminal proceedings against one or more officers unknown attached to the local county police department, on suspicion that, by failing to discharge their duties in relation to guarding the applicant, as defined in Decree no. 83/2011 of the Minister of the Interior on escorting persons ("the 2011 Decree"), they had failed to prevent her attempt to escape and had thereby committed the offence of frustrating the fulfilment of an official duty within the meaning of Article 327 § 1 of the Criminal Code. The 2011 Decree is an internal regulation not accessible to the public.

26. On 10 April 2017 the investigator again attempted to interview the applicant. However, a few minutes before the scheduled interview, he was informed that the applicant would not be coming as she had fallen ill.

27. The applicant was then interviewed on 20 April 2017, in the presence of her mother, an expert in psychology and a social worker. The applicant's lawyer was also present and assisted her at all times from then on.

28. In the interview of 20 April 2017, the applicant submitted that she remembered nothing of the events at the police station but did remember having been insulted by the two officers who had arrested her and having been slapped by each of them once as described in paragraph 9 above.

29. Later the same day, the investigator also interviewed Officers A. and B. The former described the events at the police station in the same way as in his initial deposition, except that he stated that he had been standing a metre to a metre and a half away from the door to the ladies' bathroom area, that the applicant had entered the room with the toilet in, that he had been alerted by a scraping sound, in response to which he had noted that the window was open, that he had initially gone to check the bathroom area, and that it had been only after that that he had noticed the applicant's body lying on the ground underneath the window. In response to questions, he stated that it might have been some twenty seconds that the applicant had been in the bathroom area, and that he thought that the window had initially been closed, but that he was unable to say whether it had been locked. Officer B. knew nothing that could elucidate the above events as he had not been present.

30. On 26 April 2017 the PPS informed the investigator that, having reviewed the material in the case file, they had established no grounds for a criminal prosecution of any officer. There had nevertheless been a negligent failure to discharge one's duties in relation to guarding the applicant, which could be dealt with as a disciplinary offence. However, the applicant's allegation in her interview on 20 April 2017 that the arresting officers had physically and verbally mistreated her had to be investigated into as a separate matter under a separate file number. No copy of the letter of 26 April 2017 has been served on the applicant.

31. On the same day, that is 26 April 2017, the applicant's lawyer requested that the investigation examine the applicant's allegation of physical and verbal abuse, in particular with a view to establishing whether any such possible mistreatment might have been the reason for the applicant jumping out of the window. These circumstances could be clarified by interviewing the applicant's brother and mother.

32. In a letter of 12 May 2017, the investigator rejected the applicant's lawyer's request on the grounds that the applicant had witness status and that, unlike victims, witnesses had no right to ask for additional investigative measures. At the same time, he informed her that the alleged mistreatment was going to be examined in a separate set of proceedings.

33. On the same day, that is 12 May 2017, the investigator referred the matter to the head of the local district police department to be handled as a disciplinary offence. In doing so he had regard to the depositions of the applicant and Officers A. and B. as well as the documentation referred to above. The investigator noted that as the applicant had been processed at the police station by Officer A. as the arresting officer, his responsibility in relation to her there was still governed by the regime applicable to escorting persons under the 2011 Decree. In particular, he had been under a duty to guard the applicant by continuously watching her behaviour and to be prepared to intervene so as to prevent an escape or disobedience (section 34 (a) and (b) of the 2011 Decree). Officer A. had failed to discharge these duties diligently, in particular when he had turned his back to the entrance door to the toilet area thus losing sight of it, without having taken precautions such as, for example, verifying whether the given window had been locked or ensuring the guarding of the applicant in the toilet area by another person of the same sex. The applicant had made use of this failure by attempting to escape. Nevertheless, the level of the responsibility of Officer A. was reduced by the following factors: the applicant had not been a dangerous offender; she had only been suspected of a relatively minor offence; it had been envisaged that following her interview she would be released; until the incident, her behaviour had been calm; and the offence of which she had been suspected had eventually been elucidated so that it had ultimately been possible to bring charges of theft against her on 14 March 2017. Thus, in combination with the service track record of Officer A., disciplinary action was deemed to be sufficient. The applicant was not informed of this decision.

34. In a letter of 7 July 2017, the head of the district police informed the Inspection Service that, as a follow-up to the decision of 12 May 2017, a disciplinary sanction of a one-off 5% reduction of monthly salary had been imposed on Officer A. The applicant was not informed of this decision and no copy of it has been made available to the Court.

INVESTIGATION INTO THE INCIDENT IN THE POLICE CAR

35. Following the instruction by the PPS that the applicant's allegation of ill-treatment in the police car be examined in a separate set of proceedings (see paragraph 30 above), the Inspection Service treated the incident as a suspicion of abuse of official authority within the meaning of Article 326 § 1 (a) of the Criminal Code. As such, it obtained and examined the contents of the investigation file concerning the police-station incident and an expert report concerning the applicant's mental condition (see paragraph 46 below), and re‑interviewed her and Officers A. and B.

36. On 12 July 2017 the Inspection Service decided to terminate the proceedings, having concluded that there was no suspicion of any wrongdoing. Above all, the applicant's allegations were found to be improbable as all the available evidence showed that there had been no reason to apply any coercion to her because she had not resisted and had cooperated. Officer A. had previously served as a specialist for Roma-related issues. It appeared implausible that he and Officer B., who had been sitting in the front of the police car, would slap the applicant, who had been sitting in the back of it, and that this could have occurred on the outskirts of a pedestrian zone in plain sight of random passers-by.

It was further noted that the applicant had been diagnosed as suffering, inter alia, from retrograde amnesia concerning the events preceding her injuries on 17 January 2017. If this was true, then it was excluded that she would remember practically nothing of the day, but remember the alleged physical and verbal abuse in the police car explicitly.

In sum, there was no indication of the offence under investigation having been committed.

37. The decision of 12 July 2017 was served on the applicant on 19 July 2017. It is uncontested that she could have but did not challenge it by way of an interlocutory appeal to the PPS.

38. Nevertheless, she repeatedly asked for it to be reviewed at all levels of the PPS, arguing that the Inspection Service had failed to establish the facts properly, contesting its factual and legal conclusions, and asserting that the reasoning behind the decision was insufficient and thus not susceptible to review. She objected that the investigators had simply endorsed the version of events as submitted by the officers under suspicion, without (i) interviewing her brother and mother, (ii) enquiring through an expert whether it was possible for her to remember some of the relevant events but not others and to regain her memory of them, and (iii) examining possible racial motives of the officers under suspicion. In her view, it was necessary to establish the cause of her fall out of the window, in particular whether it had been due to the treatment she had been exposed to in the police car or at the police station immediately before the incident. Although she had already asked for that and the authorities were under a positive duty to investigate this matter, no investigation into it had been carried out at all.

39. The applicant's repeated requests were all dismissed, for the final time in a communication from the Prosecutor General's Office on 21 September 2018. The PPS had examined the contents of the case file and had fully endorsed the investigator's decision and reasoning. Other than that, it was only noted that the subject matter of the investigation in issue was limited to the alleged ill-treatment in the police car and that the circumstances of the applicant's fall out of the window at the police station were beyond its scope.

CONSTITUTIONAL PROCEEDINGS AND REVIEW BY OMBUDSPERSON

40. On 20 November 2018 the applicant lodged an individual complaint under Article 127 of the Constitution with the Constitutional Court. In the body of the complaint, she alleged a violation of her rights, inter alia, under Articles 2, 3, 13 and 14 of the Convention. As to the facts, she complained that the authorities had failed to take appropriate steps to safeguard her life during her deprivation of liberty at the police station and to ensure an effective investigation into the events leading up to her fall out of the window, including into her allegation of abuse in the police car. The investigation undertaken had been deficient in that it had not been prompt, independent and adequate in that it had failed to examine the possible racial motive behind the alleged violations. Regarding the independence of the investigation, the applicant pointed out that the Inspection Service was subordinate to the Minister of the Interior as was ultimately the police, including the officers under suspicion. Moreover, the investigation had been limited to the alleged physical and verbal abuse in the police car, but had failed to examine the possible connection between her falling out of the window at the police station and the events that had immediately preceded it, all of which had in her opinion racial connotations. Furthermore, the applicant objected that the investigation had simply and arbitrarily accepted the version of events submitted by the officers suspected of having mistreated her and being responsible for her injuries.

41. In the summary of her complaint, as formulated in a standardised and prescribed form (petit), the applicant linked it to the results of the investigation concerning the alleged incident in the police car (see paragraphs 35 et seq. above).

42. In a decision of 13 December 2018, the Constitutional Court declared the complaint inadmissible as being manifestly ill-founded.

43. It noted that the applicant's complaint essentially concerned an allegation that the authorities had failed to ensure an effective investigation into the alleged offences committed against her by members of the police. However, there was no standalone right guaranteed to ensure the criminal prosecution of a third party. It was true that Articles 2 and 3 of the Convention imposed a positive obligation in that respect. However, it was extremely rare for any such obligation to stem from Article 8 of the Convention.

44. Without providing any details, the Constitutional Court noted that the applicant's complaints had been duly examined by the authorities. The fact that she disagreed with their conclusions was not capable of engaging a constitutional review since the Constitutional Court was neither a court of fact nor of appeal in matters governed by criminal law.

45. In a letter of 15 February 2019 concerning the investigation into the alleged police-car incident, the Ombudsperson of Slovakia informed the Inspection Service that, in response to the applicant's complaint in relation to the actions taken against her by officers of the SNV county police department, she had established no violation of the applicant's human rights and fundamental freedoms.

THE APPLICANT'S MENTAL CONDITION AND CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST HER

46. In the context of the criminal proceeding against the applicant on the charges brought on 14 March 2017 (see paragraph 33 above), on 23 June 2017 a sworn expert in psychiatry drew up a report on the applicant's condition.

47. In her examination, the expert relied, inter alia, on the contents of the case file concerning the suspicion of theft against the applicant. This material included depositions by her brother.

48. The expert established that, at the time of the suspected offence, the applicant had been between sub-average intellectual ability and a mild mental retardation. However, this had not prevented her from understanding the unlawfulness of her actions and from controlling them. At the time of the examination, the applicant was suffering from an organic mental disorder, which presented as a mild cognitive impairment and retrograde amnesia, due to craniocerebral trauma. Her intellectual level was mild, or at worst moderate, mental retardation, the precise level being impossible to establish in view of the applicant's attitude towards the examination. Nevertheless, in conclusion, the applicant was found to be unable to comprehend the reason for the criminal proceedings against her.

49. It appears that the criminal proceedings against the applicant have been terminated, but no details have been submitted to the Court in that respect.

THE LAW PRELIMINARY REMARKS

50. The present case concerns facts that partly took place in the police car and partly at the police station. The former allegedly concerned ill-treatment. The latter essentially involved a situation in which the applicant's life was allegedly put at risk. The domestic authorities treated these two sets of facts in two separate sets of proceedings.

51. The Court is of the opinion that, to the extent the alleged incident in the police car and the incident at the police station are interrelated, a holistic assessment of the applicant's complaints in respect of each of them requires that they be examined together as follows.

ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLES 2 AND 3 OF THE CONVENTION

52. Relying on Articles 2, 3, 6 and 13 of the Convention, the applicant complained that (i) she had been verbally and physically mistreated during her transport to the police station and while being detained there, (ii) the State had failed to provide a plausible explanation of the incident at the police station and to take adequate steps to protect her health and life during her detention there, (iii) the State had failed to conduct an effective investigation into these matters, (iv) the Constitutional Court had misconceived and arbitrarily rejected her complaint, and (v) she had been denied an effective remedy in that connection.

53. The Court finds that, on the facts of the case, these allegations fall to be examined under Articles 2 and 3 of the Convention, which read as follows:

Article 2

"1. Everyone's right to life shall be protected by law. No one shall be deprived of his life intentionally save in the execution of a sentence of a court following his conviction of a crime for which this penalty is provided by law.

2. Deprivation of life shall not be regarded as inflicted in contravention of this article when it results from the use of force which is no more than absolutely necessary:

(a) in defence of any person from unlawful violence;

(b) in order to effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the escape of a person lawfully detained;

(c) in action lawfully taken for the purpose of quelling a riot or insurrection."

Article 3

"No one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment."

Admissibility

The parties' submissions (a) The Government

54. As to the applicability of Article 2, the Government pointed out that the present case did not involve loss of life and that the applicant's injuries had not required surgery but merely a conservative treatment.

55. The Government also alleged non-exhaustion of domestic remedies on a multitude of grounds as follows.

56. The applicant had failed to challenge the decisions concluding the investigation (see paragraphs 33 and 36 above) by way of an interlocutory appeal. It was true that she had sought a review of the decision concerning the alleged incident in the police car by the PPS, but this was not considered to be an effective remedy for the purposes of being allowed to have her grievances examined by the Constitutional Court.

57. In addition, the applicant's constitutional complaint had concerned the investigation regarding the alleged incident in the police car, mentioning the incident at the police station only very generally. As to any grievances in relation to the latter incident, she should have lodged a separate constitutional complaint or have specifically mentioned the incident at the police station as a part of the object of her constitutional complaint of 20 November 2018 in order to enable the Constitutional Court to examine both matters in context.

58. Furthermore, the applicant could and should have asserted her rights in the civil courts by means of an action for the protection of personal integrity and claims for damages under the Police Corps Act and under the general law of tort. Such claims would have found support in the investigator's finding that Officer A. had failed to discharge his duties when guarding the applicant.

59. The Government also argued that, despite investigative efforts compatible with any applicable requirements, it had not been shown that the applicant had been exposed to any ill-treatment.

(b) The applicant

60. The applicant responded by contending that her injuries had been life‑threatening and acknowledging that she had not challenged the decisions concluding the investigation by an interlocutory appeal.

As for the incident at the police station, since she had had witness as opposed to victim status, she had never been informed of the outcome of the proceedings and had accordingly been unable to challenge it other than before the Constitutional Court, which she had done.

As to the alleged incident in the police car, the PPS review had been in substance equivalent to one carried out on an interlocutory appeal and neither the Constitutional Court nor any of the other authorities involved had ever questioned this.

61. As to the other remedies referred to by the Government, the applicant pointed out their civil-law nature and argued that, as such, they fell short of the requirement that there be a criminal-law remedy, which in her submission applied on the facts of her case. Even if there were a choice of remedies, having chosen one that was apparently effective and sufficient, she had not been required to make use of another that was available but not more likely to be successful. Furthermore, as she had been denied the procedural standing of a victim in the proceedings concerning the incident at the police station, and having only learned of their outcome from the Government's observations before the Court, she had been unable to bring any tort claim on the basis of the investigation's finding of negligence on the part of Officer A. At the same time, as she had not had victim status in those proceedings, she had had no access to the relevant case file and had accordingly been unable to rely on any material therein concerning the incident at the police station. This was of particular relevance for her, as she had no recollection of her own as to what had happened at the police station.

62. Nevertheless, referring to the submissions of her brother, the applicant argued that it was likely that her ill-treatment in the police car had continued at the police station.

63. In addition, she contended that there was no indication that, at the time of the restriction of her liberty, she had been informed about her situation in a manner adapted to her specific needs and in the presence of a support person. Any treatment she had been exposed to at the police station had been marked by the lack of procedural accommodations called for by the special needs inherent in her particular situation. As demonstrated by the course of her subsequent questioning in the ensuing investigation, those needs were clearly discernible and identifying and responding to them had not required of the arresting officers to diagnose her mental capacity.

(c) The third-party interveners

64. The third-party interveners the HPOD and the CDLP argued that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities amplified the obligations enshrined in the Convention, in particular as regards the Contracting Parties' positive obligations to protect the rights of persons with disabilities, to investigate effectively all complaints of ill-treatment of such persons, to involve them effectively in such investigations by providing them with appropriate procedural accommodations, and not to discriminate on the basis of disability.

65. In its third-party comments, Validity asserted that intellectual disability was associated with a number of systemic disadvantages, which was further exacerbated in the case of women and children. It argued that the refusal of appropriate accommodations to such persons might amount to ill‑treatment and that, for such persons to have access to justice, it was of particular importance (i) to have access to information and communication adapted to their specific needs, (ii) to be afforded legal aid and a support person in the proceedings, and (iii) to be heard and allowed to participate in the proceedings.

The Court's assessment (a) Alleged ill-treatment and the associated investigation seen under Article 3 of the Convention

66. The Court is of the opinion that, in relation to the allegations of ill‑treatment, seen under Article 3 of the Convention, it is unnecessary to examine separately the Government's objection of non-exhaustion of domestic remedies since the compliant is in any event inadmissible on the following grounds.

67. As to any ill-treatment in the police car, the applicant's allegations have not been supported by any evidence at all, medical or other. This assessment is consonant with that made by the Ombudsperson (see paragraph 45 above). Moreover, in view of the absence of any recollection on the part of the applicant as to what happened at the police station, no support can be found in it for her suggestion of a continuation of the alleged ill-treatment there.

68. To the extent she sought to base her complaint on a statement by her brother made for the purposes of the proceedings before the Court (see paragraph 17 above), the Court notes that no such statement was offered or made at the national level although the applicant's brother was interviewed in the investigation against the applicant (see paragraph 47 above), the applicant herself was involved in various proceedings concerning this matter and at all stages she was represented by a lawyer. In so far as the applicant sought for her brother to be heard in the investigation concerning the police‑station incident and complained of his not having been heard in connection with the alleged police-car incident, her submissions were blank with no indication as to any content that his deposition would have contained (see paragraphs 31 and 38 above).

69. As far as the applicant may be understood as wishing to complain of ill-treatment consisting of the authorities' not having due regard for her mental condition, the Court notes first of all that no complaints at all to that effect were advanced at the national level. Although the Government have raised no separate objection of non-exhaustion of domestic remedies in that respect, the Court is not prevented from taking this into account in the assessment of the nature and quality of the applicant's allegations before the Court. Furthermore, there appears to have been no note regarding any mental-health diagnosis in the applicant's medical records prior to the events of 17 January 2017, no such diagnosis was referred to by the applicant's brother who took part in some of the events of that day, and also the fact that the applicant had previously been convicted for a minor offence (established by the arresting officers prior to the applicant's arrest) could have indicated to the officers that she had unrestricted legal capacity.

70. In these circumstances, the Court finds the allegations of ill-treatment manifestly ill-founded and not sufficiently credible to require an effective official investigation separate from that possibly needed in relation to her complaints under Article 2 of the Convention.

(b) The police-station incident and applicability of Article 2 of the Convention

71. The Court reiterates that Article 2 of the Convention may also be applicable when there has been no loss of life, in particular if the circumstances of the case and the nature of the injuries inflicted indicate that the applicant's life was in serious danger (see, for example, Igor Shevchenko v. Ukraine, no. 22737/04, § 42, 12 January 2012). Where the victim was not killed but survived and where he or she does not allege any intent to kill, the criteria for a complaint to be examined under this aspect of Article 2 are, firstly, whether the person was the victim of an activity, whether public or private, which by its very nature put his or her life at real and imminent risk and, secondly, whether he or she has suffered injuries that appear life‑threatening as they occur. Other factors, such as whether escaping death was purely fortuitous or whether the victim was infected with a potentially fatal disease may also come into play. The Court's assessment depends on the circumstances (see Nicolae Virgiliu Tănase v. Romania [GC], no. 41720/13, § 140, 25 June 2019, with further references).

72. In the present case, it is uncontested that the injuries the applicant sustained on 17 January 2017 were due to a fall from a second-floor window being at least 770 cm above the ground and were of a polytraumatic nature. There has not been any suggestion that there was any intention to kill or put the applicant's life at risk and neither there been any indication of her injuries having originated in any activity putting life at risk by its very nature.

73. As to the injuries themselves, they consisted of an endocranial injury, multiple fractures, a pneumothorax on one side and contusions of both lungs. As a result, the applicant lost consciousness and was then put to medically induced sleep (see paragraphs 18, 19 and 24 above), which lasted about a month. The applicant in fact submitted that her coma had lasted more than a month. However, a letter on file at the Court dated 15 February 2017 suggests that on that day the applicant was no longer in that condition (see paragraph 24 above).

74. The applicant did not require surgical intervention and conservative treatment was sufficient. Although on her discharged from hospital on 24 February 2017 she was considered to be "good health", the applicant continued needing physiotherapy (see paragraph 21 above) and suffering from "a quantitative disruption of consciousness", and a sworn expert in psychiatry noted that her craniocerebral trauma had also resulted in a mild cognitive impairment and retrograde amnesia (see paragraph 46 above).

75. As regards the circumstances in which the applicant sustained her injuries, the Court notes that she was an unaccompanied minor in the custody of the State's agents and that the gravity of her injuries appears to have been reduced by the purely fortuitous facts that the surface on which she landed happened to be grass covered with snow and that a tree happened to stand opposite the window, a slide on one of the branches of which appearing to have slowed down her fall (see paragraph 14 above). By contrast, similar situations resulted in the death in cases such as Ognyanova and Choban v. Bulgaria (no. 46317/99, § 8, 23 February 2006, involving a fall from a window on third floor); Eremiášová and Pechová v. the Czech Republic (no. 23944/04, § 8, 16 February 2012, involving a fall from a window on a mezzanine between the first and second floors); Keller v. Russia (no. 26824/04, § 25, 17 October 2013, involving a fall from a window on a third floor); and Fanziyeva v. Russia (no. 41675/08, §§ 9-11, 18 June 2015, involving a fall from a window on a second floor).

76. In these circumstances, the Court finds that the applicant's injuries were such as to bring the police-station incident within the material scope of application of Article 2 of the Convention (see also Krivova v. Ukraine, no. 25732/05, § 45, 9 November 2010; Igor Shevchenko, cited above, § 43; Cavit Tınarlıoğlu v. Turkey, no. 3648/04, § 68, 2 February 2016; Kotelnikov v. Russia, no. 45104/05, § 98, 12 July 2016; and Nicolae Virgiliu Tănase, cited above, § 149).

(c) Exhaustion of domestic remedies in relation to the Article 2 complaint

77. The Court notes that the investigation into the alleged incident in the police car and the incident at the police station was conducted in two separate sets of proceedings. The latter was concluded by a decision of 12 May 2017 that has never been served on the applicant (see paragraph33 above). It has neither been explained by the Government nor established otherwise how she could have appealed against it in such circumstances. Although it is true that the applicant has not challenged the decision of 12 July 2017 concluding the investigation into the alleged incident in the police car (see paragraph 36 above) by way of an interlocutory appeal to the PPS, the same service did review it upon her requests. There is nothing to show that this review was in substance in any way lacking compared to a review on an interlocutory appeal. Furthermore, contrary to what the Government appear to argue, in response to the applicant's constitutional complaint, the Constitutional Court did not deny review of the contested decisions on account of non-exhaustion of an interlocutory appeal.

78. As to the next part of the Government's objection, the applicant clearly also included in her constitutional complaint objections concerning the incident at the police station (see paragraph 40 above). It is true that in its summary she only linked her complaint to the investigation concerning the alleged incident in the police car (see paragraph 41 above). However, this was not the reason for which the Constitutional Court declared any part of her complaint inadmissible. The general tone of its conclusions and lack of any genuine reasoning may rather be understood as an indiscriminate rejection of the applicant's allegations as manifestly ill-founded as a whole.

79. Moreover, and more importantly, while being aware of the national practice according to which the scope of the Constitutional Court's review of individual complaints is in principle limited by their summary, as formulated in a standardised and prescribed form by the complainant (see Obluk v. Slovakia, no. 69484/01, § 48, 20 June 2006), the Court considers that in cases raising issues concerning the effectiveness of an investigation under Articles 2 and 3 of the Convention this requirement must be interpreted with due regard for the essential attribute of such an investigation, in particular for it to be conducted by the authorities of their own motion (see Adam v. Slovakia, no. 68066/12, § 78, 26 July 2016).

80. Having regard to the above, as well as the Convention's aim to guarantee rights that are not theoretical or illusory but that are practical and effective, the Court finds that the way in which the applicant asserted her grievances before the Constitutional Court cannot be considered as falling short of the requirement of exhaustion of domestic remedies under Article 35 § 1 of the Convention.

81. The first two parts of the Government's non-exhaustion objection are accordingly dismissed.

82. The Court finds that the remainder of the Government's non‑exhaustion objection, which concerns an action for the protection of personal integrity and claims for damages under the Police Corps Act and under the general law of tort, raises issues which are closely related to the merits of the complaint under the procedural limb of Article 2. Accordingly, the Court finds that it is to be joined to the merits of that complaint.

(d) Conclusion

83. The applicant's complaints in relation to the alleged ill-treatment, characterised under Article 3 of the Convention, are inadmissible and must be rejected in accordance with Article 35 §§ 3 (a) and 4.

84. The Government's non-exhaustion objection concerning an action for the protection of personal integrity and claims for damages under the Police Corps Act and under the general law of tort in relation to the complaints about the State's alleged responsibility for the applicant's injuries and the alleged lack of an effective investigation in that connection, seen under Article 2 of the Convention, is joined to the merits of the complaint under the procedural limb of that Article.

85. The applicant's complaints in relation to the State's alleged responsibility for the applicant's injuries and the alleged lack of an effective investigation in that connection, seen under Article 2 of the Convention, are neither manifestly ill-founded nor inadmissible on any other grounds listed in Article 35 of the Convention. They must therefore be declared admissible.

Merits

The parties' submissions (a) The applicant

86. The applicant contended that since she had no recollection of the circumstances of her fall out of the police-station window, it was unclear whether she had fallen out by herself. Assuming that that was the case, there must have been a very good reason for her to try to escape in such a way and the State had failed to prevent it. As it was possible that the treatment she had been exposed to in the police car had continued at the police station, it was likewise possible that such treatment was the reason for her attempt to escape.

87. All of the submissions by the Government and the findings of the domestic authorities had been based solely on the statements of the implicated police officers, which had simply been endorsed, and the applicant's own submissions had been treated as being of less value. No independent evidence had been obtained and the authorities had never had any genuine intention to find out what had in fact happened.

88. Negligence on the part of Officer A. in relation to guarding her had been established at the domestic level and had in fact been accepted by the Government. However, no redress at all had been provided to her.

89. The applicant also pointed out that in the investigation concerning the police-station incident, she had been denied the procedural status of a victim, procedural decisions had not been served on her and she had been unable to adduce evidence. Moreover, the investigation had not been independent in that it had been carried out by the Inspection Service, which was subordinate to the Minister of the Interior, as were ultimately also the officers under investigation.

(b) The Government

90. In the Government's view, there was no doubt that it had been the applicant herself who had caused her injuries and that the only point for debate was whether the State had fulfilled its positive obligations with a view to preventing that.

91. Referring to the submissions of Officer A. and the findings of the investigation, the Government pointed out that the applicant had previously been cooperative and had been informed that she would be released after the questioning, in view of which there had been no objective grounds to presume that she would seek to escape. Her doing so in such circumstances could not have been anticipated and had been inexplicable.

92. Owing to the speed with which the events concerning the applicant's deprivation of liberty had unfolded, it had not been possible to ensure the presence of her mother at her initial questioning. Moreover, the officers attending to her could not have known or presumed that her mental capacity was impaired; not even in her medical records had there been any reference to that fact.

93. It was true that Officer A. had been neglectful in the discharge of his duties in relation to the guarding of the applicant. However, in view of all the circumstances, disciplinary action had been sufficient.

94. Immediately after the accident, the applicant had been provided first aid and the authorities had urgently taken any steps that had been needed.

95. The Government pointed to the chronology of the relevant events and argued that the investigation under review had been prompt, efficient and conducted by the authorities of their own motion. The applicant's brother and parents had been interviewed in the context of the proceedings against the applicant on the charge of theft. This had been taken into account in the investigation under review and there had been no need to re-examine them in that investigation. Any other measure of investigation had been taken as necessary. The applicant's mother had been present during the applicant's subsequent questionings and both sets of investigation had been completed within two to three months, with the final outcome having ultimately been reviewed and endorsed by the Constitutional Court. The latter's decision had been neither arbitrary nor unjustified, with the review of facts being limited by the scope of the applicant's complaint, which had not comprised the incident at the police station.

96. As to the applicant's own participation in the proceedings, she had only been interviewed to an extent that corresponded to her age, and her interviews had always taken place in the presence of a psychologist, a social worker, and the applicant's mother and lawyer. The investigation had examined all relevant aspects of the case.

97. In sum, the Government considered that the applicant's substantive claims had been unfounded and that the safeguards and remedies available to her had been compatible with any applicable procedural requirements.

(c) The third-party interveners

98. The ERRC argued that the Inspection Service lacked the institutional guarantees of independence required for an investigation to be compatible with Article 3 of the Convention.

The Court's assessment (a) Procedural limb of Article 2

99. In Fanziyeva (cited above, §§ 46 and 50, with further references), the Court reiterated the applicable general principles as follows:

- Article 2 of the Convention, which safeguards the right to life, ranks as one of the most fundamental provisions in the Convention. Together with Article 3, it enshrines one of the basic values of the democratic societies making up the Council of Europe. The first sentence of Article 2 enjoins the Contracting States not only to refrain from the taking of life "intentionally" or by the "use of force" disproportionate to the legitimate aims referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c) of the second paragraph of that provision, but also to take appropriate steps to safeguard the lives of those within its jurisdiction.

- The obligation to protect the right to life under Article 2 of the Convention requires by implication that there should be some form of adequate and effective official investigation when individuals have died in suspicious circumstances. The essential purpose of such an investigation is to ensure effective implementation of the domestic laws which protect the right to life. The investigation must be capable, firstly, of ascertaining the circumstances in which the incident took place and, secondly, of leading to the identification and punishment of those responsible. This is not an obligation of result, but of means. The authorities must have taken the reasonable steps available to them to secure the evidence concerning the incident, including, inter alia, eyewitness testimony and forensic evidence. A requirement of promptness and reasonable expedition is implicit in this context. Any deficiency in the investigation which undermines its capability of establishing the circumstances of the case or the person responsible is liable to fall foul of the required standard of effectiveness.

100. In the present case the domestic authorities treated the incident at the police station as a separate matter, independent of the allegation of ill‑treatment in the police car. In neither of the separate investigations was the other actual or alleged incident taken into account for context. Even though the allegation of ill-treatment has not been made out for the purposes of the proceedings before the Court, it cannot be said to be irrelevant for the assessment of the police-station incident as an aspect of the events that preceded it and might have given it a cause. However, rather than looking into this aspect, and despite the applicant's request to that effect, the authorities appear to have consciously ignored it.

101. In fact, the investigation and its conclusions relied purely on the statements and records produced by the implicated officers, with no attempt to look for and take into account any elements of external provenance (for example, by hearing the applicant's brother, the crew of the patrol car that took him to the police station, the female officer who searched the applicant on arrival at the police station or any other personnel possibly present there during the impugned events).

102. Furthermore, the Court notes that no attempt has been made (for example, by an investigative reconstruction of the events) to clarify matters such as what appears to be a fundamental incongruity between the initial version provided by Officer A. and his later version (see paragraphs 14 and 29 above) as to whether he saw the applicant falling out of the window or went first to search the ladies' toilet area and only then noticed the applicant lying on the ground underneath the window.

103. To the extent the authorities relied in their dismissal of the applicant's allegation of ill-treatment in the police car on what they considered to be the improbability that she would remember nothing of the day but would remember extremely clearly the circumstances of the incident in the police car, the Court notes that this finding had no direct support in the expert evidence available (see paragraph 46 above) and that, despite the applicant's specific request to that effect (see paragraph 38 above), no further evidence was taken. In this connection, however, the Court also notes that, despite having legal representation, at no point domestically does the applicant appear to have claimed or complained of the lack of any procedural accommodations in view of her level of mental capacity.

104. The investigation concerned an offence of negligently frustrating the fulfilment of an official duty, one of the considerations being that despite the failure of Officer A. to carry out his duties, it had not prevented the bringing of charges against the applicant. In their examination, the authorities focused on Officer A. and paid no attention at all to the fact that his failure to act had had as a consequence the applicant's fall and injuries and that the applicant was a minor. In other words, in relation to that offence, the applicant was not given the status of victim and this translated into her being given witness status, thus preventing her from actively participating in the proceedings. In this context, the Court finds it noteworthy that no possibility appears to have been explored of treating the matter as an offence in relation to which the substantive and procedural position of the applicant would have been different.

105. The ultimate decision in respect of the disciplinary liability of Officer A. was neither served on the applicant nor made available to the Court. That being the case, the Court is able to assess the sanction imposed (a one-off reduction in monthly salary of 5%) only in the abstract, from which perspective it appears negligible.

106. Responding to the incident in this way creates the impression of seeking to give it administrative closure rather than genuinely attempting to establish the facts and draw consequences. The Constitutional Court's part in that response is consonant with that impression, in particular in so far as it failed to address a substantial part of the applicant's claims and relied in its assessment of their remainder on Article 8 of the Convention, which had not been invoked by the applicant and cannot be accepted as playing a significant role on the facts of this case.

107. The above considerations are sufficient for the Court to conclude that the investigation into the events of 17 January 2017 was not effective for the purposes of Article 2 of the Convention.

108. As to the part of the Government's non-exhaustion objection, which has been joined to the merits of this complaint (see paragraph 84 above), the Court notes first of all that it concerns civil-law remedies of a purely preventive and compensatory nature, but with no punitive potential. In that respect, it reiterates that civil proceedings, which are not undertaken on the initiative of the authorities, and which do not involve the identification or punishment of any alleged perpetrator, cannot be taken into account in the assessment of the State's compliance with its procedural obligations under Article 2 of the Convention. Moreover, the procedural obligation of the State under Article 2 cannot be satisfied merely by awarding damages (see Al‑Skeini and Others v. the United Kingdom [GC], no. 55721/07, § 165, ECHR 2011, with further references). In addition, in so far as the Government have argued that the said civil-law claims would have found support in the investigator's finding that Officer A. had failed to discharge his duties when guarding the applicant (see paragraph 58 above), the Court refers to its above conclusion as to the investigation's having been ineffective. Accordingly, as a matter of principle, the prospects of success of any further remedies based on the outcome of that investigation were limited. Furthermore, as also already noted above, the ultimate decision in respect of the disciplinary liability of Officer A. was neither served on the applicant nor made available to the Court. To pursue the remedies in question in these circumstances is beyond the requirements of Article 35 § 1 of the Convention. The remainder of the Government's non‑exhaustion plea must therefore be rejected.

109. There has accordingly been a violation of Article 2 of the Convention in its procedural aspect.

110. In view of the above findings the Court considers that it is not necessary to examine separately on the merits the remaining facet of the applicant's complaint under the procedural aspect of that provision, that is the independence of the investigation. In that regard, it notes that in so far as this aspect of the case concerns the status of the Inspection Service, the applicant's complaints were purely abstract, addressing only the institutional aspect of the investigative arrangement in place (see M.B. and Others, cited above, §§ 90 and 92).

(b) Substantive limb of Article 2

111. In Fanziyeva (cited above, §§ 47-49, with further references), the Court also reiterated that:

- Persons in custody are in a particularly vulnerable position and the authorities are under an obligation to account for their treatment. As a general rule, the mere fact that an individual dies in suspicious circumstances while in custody should raise an issue as to whether the State has complied with its obligation to protect that person's right to life. Such an obligation must be interpreted in a way which does not impose an impossible or disproportionate burden on the authorities, bearing in mind the difficulties involved in policing modern societies, the unpredictability of human conduct and the operational choices which must be made in terms of priorities and resources.

- A positive obligation will arise where it has been established that the authorities knew or ought to have known at the time of the existence of a real and immediate risk to the life of an identified individual by a third party or himself and that they failed to take measures within the scope of their powers which, judged reasonably, might have been expected to avoid that risk. However, even where it is not established that the authorities knew or ought to have known about any such risk, there are certain basic precautions which police officers and prison officers should be expected to take in all cases in order to minimise any potential risk to protect the health and well-being of the arrested person.

- In assessing evidence, the Court adopts the standard of proof "beyond reasonable doubt". However, such proof may follow from the co‑existence of sufficiently strong, clear and concordant inferences or of similar unrebutted presumptions of fact. Where the events in issue lie wholly, or in large part, within the exclusive knowledge of the authorities, as in the case of persons within their control in custody, strong presumptions of fact will arise in respect of injuries and death occurring during that detention. Indeed, the burden of proof may be regarded as resting on the authorities to provide a satisfactory and convincing explanation.

112. As to the facts of the present case, the Court notes first of all that it is undisputed that the applicant's injuries were caused by her fall from the police-station window. While she herself has no recollection of how the fall came about, there has not been any allegation of any direct involvement of any third party in it. Moreover, an allegation of ill-treatment that should have preceded the fall and in fact have given a cause to it has not been found established to the requisite standard.

113. However, even assuming that the applicant's fall was due to an unfortunate attempt to escape from police detention, this of itself does not absolve the respondent State from responsibility for her injuries. The Court reiterates that the obligation to protect the health and well-being of persons in detention clearly encompasses an obligation to protect the life of arrested and detained persons from a foreseeable danger. Although there does not appear to be sufficient evidence to show that the authorities knew or ought to have known that there was a risk that the applicant might attempt to escape by jumping out of a second floor window, there were certain basic precautions which should have been taken in respect of the applicant as a person held in detention in order to minimise any potential risk (see Keller, cited above, § 88; Mižigárová, cited above, § 89; and Eremiášová and Pechová, cited above, §§ 110 and 117).

114. In the present case, as established by the domestic authorities (see paragraphs 25 and 33 above), Officer A. was responsible for guarding the applicant under the rules for escorting persons embodied in the 2011 Decree. While this decree is of an internal nature and as such not accessible to the public, from the contents of the investigator's decision of 12 May 2017 the Court understands that these rules included a duty continuously to watch the applicant's behaviour so as to prevent an escape. The domestic authorities likewise concluded that Officer A. had failed in the discharge of this duty and that this failure had enabled the applicant to attempt to escape. In particular, in violation of the applicable rules, Officer A. had turned his back to the entrance of the toilet area without verifying whether the given window had been locked or ensuring the guarding of the applicant in the toilet area by another person of the same sex. The Government have not disputed these findings and the applicability and content of the said rules (see paragraph 93 above). Neither have they summitted anything leading to a different conclusion than that the omission in question in itself runs contrary to the authorities' duty to protect physical well-being of persons in custody (see also, Fanziyeva, cited above, §§ 21 and 58). The respondent State is thus responsible for the applicant's injuries.

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020220915ei9f0006b


Slovakia This Week - September 23, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 9 月 23 日, 1325 字, (英文)
Slovak foreign trade reached a surplus of €1.9bnThe Slovak final foreign trade balance for 2021 was a €1.88bn surplus.In 2021 a total amount of €88.55bn in goods was exported from Slovakia, which is an increase of 16.6% in comparison to ...

European Court of Human Rights judgment: CASE OF CHOCHOLÁČ v. SLOVAKIA
5589 字
2022 年 9 月 28 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Brussels: European Court of Human Rights has issued the following judgment on (07 July 2022):

FIRST SECTION

CASE OF CHOCHOLÁČ v. SLOVAKIA

(Application no. 81292/17)

JUDGMENT

Art 8 • Private life applicable • General and indiscriminate ban on prisoner possession of pornographic material not permitting proportionality assessment in an individual case

STRASBOURG

7 July 2022

This judgment will become final in the circumstances set out in Article 44 § 2 of the Convention. It may be subject to editorial revision.

In the case of Chocholáč v. Slovakia, The European Court of Human Rights (First Section), sitting as a Chamber composed of:

Marko Bošnjak, President, Péter Paczolay, Krzysztof Wojtyczek, Alena Poláčková, Erik Wennerström, Raffaele Sabato, Davor Derenčinović, judges, and Renata Degener, Section Registrar, Having regard to:

the application (no. 81292/17) against the Slovak Republic lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ("the Convention") by a Slovak national, Mr Roman Chocholáč ("the applicant"), on 21 November 2017;

the decision to give notice to the Government of the Slovak Republic ("the Government") of the complaints under Articles 8 and 10 of the Convention and to declare the remainder of the application inadmissible;

the observations submitted by the Government and the observations in reply submitted by the applicant;

third-party comments received from the European Centre for Law and Justice ("the ECLJ"), which had been granted leave by the President to intervene in the written procedure (Article 36 § 2 of the Convention and Rule 44 § 3);

Having deliberated in private on 31 May 2022, Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date:

INTRODUCTION

1. The case concerns a rule pursuant to which inmates serving prison sentences are banned from possessing adult material because it is considered to be a threat to morality. It mainly raises issues under Article 8 of the Convention.

THE FACTS

2. The applicant was born in 1989 and is serving a life sentence in Leopoldov prison for murder.

3. Having been granted legal aid, the applicant was represented before the Court by Mr T. Bicko, a lawyer practising in Považská Bystrica.

4. The Government were represented by their Agent, Ms M. Bálintová.

5. The facts of the case may be summarised as follows.

INCIDENT

6. At the relevant time, the applicant was serving a sentence in Ilava Prison. He was placed under the maximum security regime in a single‑occupancy cell within a separate prison section reserved exclusively for life prisoners.

7. On 26 April 2013 he was subjected to a routine search in connection with a visit that he was going to pay to another life prisoner. A popular weekly magazine was found in his possession, on the inside of which pictures showing explicit content had been pasted.

8. It was later submitted by the applicant and not disputed by the authorities that the pictures had been cut out from adult magazines which were freely available in the press distribution network in Slovakia and in the Czech Republic and that they depicted "classic" adult heterosexual sex (klasický sex medzi dospelými ženami a mužmi).

9. With reference to the definition of pornography and the offence of threatening morality (ohrozenie mravnosti) provided in Article 132 § 2 and Article 371 § 1 of the Criminal Code (Law no. 300/2005 Coll., as applicable at that time), the material was found to be pornographic in nature and, as such, a threat to morality within the meaning of section 40(i) of the Execution of Prison Sentences Act (Law no. 475/2005 Z. z. Coll., as amended - hereinafter "the EPSA").

10. The material was taken away from the applicant and disciplinary proceedings were opened against him.

DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS

11. In his defence, the applicant emphasised that the pictures depicted heterosexual adult intercourse, that this was in accordance with nature, and that he had freely opted for that orientation. The pictures were intended for his own use, had been pasted in a magazine that belonged to him and were a part of his private life. They had a soothing and positive impact on him, especially as he was excluded from social life. The fact that somebody found the pictures offensive did not mean that their possession should be punishable. A threat to morality had to be seen in the light of the prevailing environment - in his case, the life prisoners' section of the prison, where homosexuality was prevalent but was not countered, and - as the applicant argued - it was even supported by the prison authorities. Being of heterosexual orientation, the applicant considered that he had been discriminated against, and contended that he had not breached any law.

12. On 10 May 2013 the applicant was found guilty of a disciplinary offence. He appealed against that decision, but his appeal was dismissed on 17 May 2013. His arguments were noted but given no response, as the material in question was proscribed, and its possession was illegal. In view of the circumstances, it was decided that the appropriate sanction was that of a reprimand under section 52(3)(a) of the EPSA.

13. Following repeated requests by the applicant in which he essentially reiterated the above arguments, the decision was reviewed and upheld by two levels of the Public Prosecution Service, the final decision being delivered by means of a communication of 27 May 2015. The decision found that the pictures were pornographic and as such threatened morality, and that they were accordingly proscribed. The applicant must have known this, as he had attempted to conceal them.

CONSTITUTIONAL REVIEW

14. The applicant subsequently asserted his rights before the Constitutional Court, relying on, inter alia, Articles 8 and 10 of the Convention. He continued to advance the same arguments as before and added that, in applying section 40(i) of the EPSA, the prison administration and the Public Prosecution Service had wrongfully relied on the criminal-law provisions concerning the offence of threatening morality through pornography. Those provisions only made it an offence to produce or procure and then put into circulation pornography that involved disrespect towards human beings, violence, zoophilia or - as the law terms it - other pathological sexual practices. Aside from that offence and certain others, such as those involving children, pornography was not a matter of criminal law. His case involved the possession of material depicting "ordinary" adult heterosexual sex (bežný heterosexuálny sex dospelých ľudí). This was no threat to morality among the general population, and there were a fortiori no grounds to presume that it could jeopardise the morality of mentally stable adults in the prison population.

15. The applicant also noted that for a heterosexual man in prison, complete isolation from the opposite sex led to loneliness, stress, anxiety and aggression. Self-stimulation served as a tool to reduce those negative effects, particularly when inspired by explicit material. There was no indication of any instance within the prison environment when such material had triggered aggressive or otherwise negative behaviour, but a situation marked by a ban on access to it might well do so.

16. Furthermore, the applicant pointed out that the practice in various prisons was inconsistent and that the relative leniency of his sanction was only due to the fact that he had had no previous disciplinary convictions.

17. In a judgment of 15 March 2017, the Constitutional Court found that Article 8 of the Convention was inapplicable to the facts of the applicant's case and that there had been no violation of his freedom to receive information under Article 10 of the Convention.

18. It recognised that prisoners continued to enjoy all the Convention rights and freedoms, the exercise of which was not by definition incompatible with the execution of a prison sentence. An interference with such rights and freedoms was to be examined in the light of the Convention requirements. The questions to be answered were whether the provisions in question guaranteed the right to be allowed to possess pornographic material and, if so, whether the interference with that right was justified.

19. Within the given context, pornography was to be understood as defined in the Criminal Code (see paragraph 30 below).

20. No pornography involving children, disrespect towards human beings, violence, zoophilia or other pathological sexual practices within the meaning of the applicable legal definition (see also paragraph 31 below) was protected as a matter of principle. Any other type of pornography had to be considered with regard to its specific audience and context and the aims sought by its dissemination. Three "other" types of pornography could thus be distinguished: (i) that which was intended to be displayed on a limited basis or excluded within a given context; (ii) that which could be displayed without limits; and (iii) that in respect of which the position depended on the concrete circumstances.

21. Such "other" pornography could fall within the remit of private life under Article 8 of the Convention only if it depicted the person concerned or a scene from his or her intimate sphere, which was not the situation in the applicant's case.

22. The matter was accordingly to be viewed with regard to the freedom to receive information under Article 10 of the Convention. The withdrawal of the material in question from the applicant's possession and the disciplinary sanction imposed on him had amounted to an interference with that freedom. Its legal basis was section 40(i) of the EPSA and it pursued the aims of the protection of morals, the prevention of disorder and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.

23. As to the necessity of the interference, the legal provision in question was cast in absolute terms and allowed for no balancing of individual interests. It was true that the prison context was specific in that it involved complete isolation from, and thereby a total exclusion of intimate contact with, the opposite sex. Pornography could thus serve as a stimulus for auto‑erotic satisfaction. It could, however, also prompt sexual and violent offences.

24. The actual impact of pornography within the prison context in general terms was a question to be answered by experts and the Constitutional Court had no power to deal with it in response to an individual complaint. Accordingly, it could not but trust in the rationality of the lawmakers in having passed the legislation in question on the basis of sufficient expert evaluation. These matters had to be examined and assessed at a central level and the administration of a given prison was not equipped to assess the likely impact of pornography on inmates in individual cases. The lawmakers' absolute preference for the above legitimate aims therefore had to be accepted without any balancing against the individual's freedom to receive information.

RELEVANT LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND PRACTICE EXECUTION OF PRISON SENTENCES ACT

25. In accordance with section 35(1) of the EPSA, convicted prisoners have the right to subscribe to newspapers and magazines and to order books at their own expense other than those that, inter alia, threaten morality.

26. Pursuant to section 40(i), convicted prisoners are forbidden to keep, inter alia, printed material or objects that threaten morality and objects by which they might frustrate the purpose of the execution of the sentence, the fundamental principles of the execution of the sentence being defined in section 3 as including, inter alia, the support for attitudes that foster the prisoner's reintegration in the society (sub-section 3).

27. Disciplinary sanctions under section 52(3) comprise: (a) a reprimand, (b) a ban on telephone communications, (c) a ban on making purchases in the prison shop, (d) a ban on the use of a private television or radio receiver, (e) placement in a closed section outside working hours, (f) whole-day placement in a closed section, (g) solitary confinement, and (h) confiscation of an item.

28. If another disciplinary offence is committed within six months from the time when a decision imposing the disciplinary sanction of a reprimand for an earlier offence becomes final, the newly committed offence is to be punished by a more severe sanction than a reprimand (section 53(1)).

29. Upon the inmate's request, a disciplinary sanction is normally expunged (zahladnie disciplinárneho trestu) if the inmate has fully complied with the applicable rules for a period of one year after the implementation of the sanction, and the sanction is thereby treated as never having been imposed (section 61(1) and (6)).

CRIMINAL CODE

30. At the relevant time, the notion of pornography was defined in Article 132 § 2 of the Code as comprising the portrayal of coitus, other forms of sexual intercourse or similar sexual contact or the depiction of exposed genitals aimed at provoking the sexual satisfaction of another person.

31. The basic form of the offence of threatening morality is defined in Article 371 § 1 as comprising, inter alia, the production, purchase, import or other means of procurement, and the subsequent sale, renting out or otherwise putting into circulation, of pornography involving disrespect towards human beings, violence, sexual intercourse with an animal or other pathological sexual practices (iné sexuálne patologické praktiky).

32. A specific form of the offence under Article 372 deals with making pornography accessible to children.

33. As to pathological sexual practices, their promotion or public support, approval or substantial downplaying constitutes an offence under Article 373.

OPINION OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE PRISON AND COURT GUARD SERVICE

34. In 2014 the Director General of the Prison and Court Guard Service conducted an information campaign, distributing among all prison facilities in Slovakia an opinion on, inter alia, the interpretation of the term "printed material which threatens morality". It distinguished between pornography and mere erotica. The former was to encompass magazines or books portraying figures whose principal aim was to activate the strong instinctual behaviour of the reader; the latter was to include daily press, magazines and books depicting the naked body for artistic, commercial or educational purposes. The assessment was in concreto to be made by each prison's educational officer (pedagóg).

THE LAW ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 8 OF THE CONVENTION

35. Relying on Articles 8 and 10 of the Convention, the applicant complained about the sanction he had received for the possession of the material in question. The Court considers that the complaint falls to be examined under Article 8 of the Convention, the relevant part of which reads as follows:

"1. Everyone has the right to respect for his private ... life ...

2. There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic well-being of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others."

Admissibility

36. The Court notes that the complaint is neither manifestly ill-founded nor inadmissible on any other grounds listed in Article 35 of the Convention. It must therefore be declared admissible.

Merits

The parties' submissions (a) The applicant

37. The applicant emphasised that he was serving a life sentence in a maximum-security prison and that he lived alone in his cell. It accordingly constituted his home, the place where he led his intimate life.

38. In such a situation, he was excluded from any possibility of intimate contact with the opposite sex. As he was heterosexual, his only alternative was auto-erotic stimulation, for which he used inspiration from otherwise commonly available pornographic material. He was aware that the possession of such material in prisons in Slovakia attracted disciplinary sanctions and this was what had happened to him in the present case.

39. The removal of the contested material from him and the imposition of a disciplinary sanction had amounted to an interference with his privacy, and in particular, his sexual life. The interference had been unjustified as, in the applicant's view, the possession of such material in his specific circumstances could not have endangered morals, order within the prison or the rights of anyone else.

40. He further challenged the prison staff's unlimited discretion in determining whether certain material interfered with those values and argued that the Government had failed to show any concrete example of when the presence of pornography in prison had caused disturbances or violence.

41. Lastly, the applicant emphasised that the leniency of the sanction was only due to the fact that this had been his first disciplinary offence.

(b) The Government

42. The Government relied on the Constitutional Court's finding to the effect that, since the material in question had not depicted the applicant or any scene from his own intimate life, it had fallen outside the purview of his right to respect for private life. Serving a prison sentence entailed limitations on how a person could lead his or her private, including sexual, life. The applicant had not demonstrated that he had been unable to practise auto‑eroticism without violating the relevant rules. The blanket ban on access to pornography had not had, in their view, any concrete consequences for the applicant's sexual life, mental health or well-being such as to qualify as an interference with his right to privacy.

43. Should the Court nevertheless find that the removal of the contested material from the applicant and the disciplinary sanction imposed on him had constituted an interference with the applicant's Article 8 rights, the Government contended that it had been based on section 40(i) of the EPSA, as interpreted in line with the 2014 Opinion of the Director General of the Prison and Court Guard Service. Any pornographic material was considered a threat to morality within the meaning of that provision, of which the applicant had undoubtedly been aware. In sum, the interference had been in accordance with the law.

44. As established by the Constitutional Court, the interference had served the aim of protecting morals, order and the rights and freedoms of others.

45. As for its necessity, the Government contended that limiting certain rights and freedoms to protect morals was justified, despite the absence of a concrete definition of that concept in the domestic law, and that the level of protection afforded to morals corresponded to the historical, social and religious perception of the concept. As there was no uniform European understanding of it, the Contracting Parties' margin of appreciation was wide.

46. Within the prison context, the domestic legislation was aimed at preparing convicted persons for life after prison, including fostering respect for laws and social norms. As to the rights of others, in view of the inherent variety of their needs, values and beliefs, exposing prisoners to pornography could lead to offence and interpersonal conflict, and thereby eventually to endangering safety and order in prisons.

47. Given the state of the Slovakian prison system, it was impossible to allow access to pornography on an individual basis without a risk that it might be disseminated to others. However, a certain discretion was always left to the prison's educational officer for a case-by-case assessment.

48. The Constitutional Court's conclusion that the lawmakers' absolute preference for the stated legitimate aims had to be accepted without any balancing against the individual's freedom to receive information (see paragraph 24 above) had in itself involved a proportionality test.

49. The Government also argued that the ban on pornography in prisons did not extend to material of a purely erotic nature and that, accordingly, it had not constituted any far-reaching restriction of the applicant's rights. The sanction imposed had been the mildest possible one, without any additional consequences, and it had been possible to have it expunged after one year.

50. In sum, the Government maintained that the interference had been compatible with the requirements of the Convention.

(c) The third-party intervener's submissions

51. The ECLJ submitted that the Convention did not guarantee a right of access to pornography. In its view, pornography was, in essence, contrary to morals and its dissemination should not be protected by the Convention. It contended that a prohibition on the possession of pornographic material was necessary, proportionate and in conformity with international standards.

The Court's assessment (a) Applicability and interference

52. Prisoners in general continue to enjoy all the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed under the Convention save for the right to liberty, where lawfully imposed detention expressly falls within the scope of Article 5 of the Convention. Any restrictions on these other rights must be justified, although such justification may well be found in the considerations of security, in particular the prevention of crime and disorder, which inevitably flow from the circumstances of imprisonment. It is inconceivable, therefore, that a prisoner should forfeit his Convention rights merely because of his status as a person detained following conviction. Nor is there any place under the Convention system, where tolerance and broadmindedness are the acknowledged hallmarks of democratic society, for automatic disenfranchisement based purely on what might offend public opinion (see, mutatis mutandis, Hirst v. the United Kingdom (no. 2) [GC], no. 74025/01, §§ 69 and 70, ECHR 2005-IX, with further references).

53. The concept of "private life" within the meaning of Article 8 of the Convention is a broad term not susceptible to exhaustive definition, which covers the physical and psychological integrity of a person. Elements such as, for example, gender identification, name and sexual orientation and sexual life fall within the personal sphere protected by Article 8 (see, among other authorities, S. and Marper v. the United Kingdom [GC], nos. 30562/04 and 30566/04, § 66, ECHR 2008, with further references).

54. The facts of the applicant's case before the Court are linked to his serving a life term in Slovakia. It is a specific feature of the prison system concerned that it allows for no conjugal visits. It is true that this as such is not the subject matter of the present case and that, although reform movements to facilitate such visits have been noted with approval, the Convention does not require the Contracting Parties to make provisions for them (Lesław Wójcik v. Poland, no. 66424/09, § 114, 1 July 2021). Nevertheless, it forms a part of the context in which the impugned restriction on the applicant's ability to lead sexual life should be viewed.

55. It is uncontested in the present case that the applicant held printed material capable of being used as a stimulant for auto-eroticism in his private sphere for that purpose. The case accordingly involves no issue of any positive obligations in relation to it in general or in concreto. Although the status of such a material is likewise not an object of the present application, the Court notes that its possession is normally not against the law in the respondent Contracting Party. However, in the applicant's specific situation, it was forbidden by a rule that has been enforced through the confiscation of the material and the imposition of a disciplinary sanction.

56. In these circumstances, the Court finds that the facts of the present case fall within the material scope of the right to respect for private life under Article 8 of the Convention. The seizure of the contested material from the applicant and the reprimand he received for its possession accordingly constituted an interference with that right.

(b) Justification for the interference

57. To determine whether this interference entailed a violation of Article 8 of the Convention, the Court must examine whether it was justified under the second paragraph of that Article, that is, whether the interference was "in accordance with the law", pursued one or more of the legitimate aims specified therein, and to that end was "necessary in a democratic society".

(i) In accordance with the law

58. The legal basis for the interference in the present case was section 40(i) of the EPSA, and no reproach can be made in respect of it under the criteria established by the Court's case-law (see, among many other authorities, Khoroshenko v. Russia [GC], no. 41418/04, § 110, ECHR 2015, and the cases cited therein). It was therefore in accordance with the law for the purposes of the Convention.

(ii) Legitimate aim

59. The enumeration of the exceptions to the right to respect for private life, as listed in Article 8 § 2, is exhaustive and their definition is restrictive. For it to be compatible with the Convention, a limitation of that right must pursue an aim that can be linked to one of those listed in that provision (see S.A.S. v. France [GC], no. 43835/11, § 113, ECHR 2014 (extracts)).

60. In the present case, concordantly with the Constitutional Court, the Government relied on the aims of the protection of morals, the prevention of disorder and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.

61. In that connection, the Court notes first of all that the legal provision on the basis of which the interference was carried out only seeks to protect morality, but not order or the rights or freedoms of others, and that the reliance by the Constitutional Court and the Government (see paragraphs 22 and 31 above) on the notions of order and the rights or freedoms of others has been purely abstract and without any link to the facts of this case at all. As to the law that has been applied in this case, the use of the general term of morality as well as the aid to its interpretation by reference to criminal-law provisions which all presuppose the transmission of inappropriate material to others may be seen as indicative of the interest in protecting morality in the general sense.

62. On the facts, the applicant was given a disciplinary sanction for possession of the material at issue, which he kept purely for his private ends, and at no stage has there been any suggestion that it was intended or likely to be transmitted to any other person. Therefore, to the extent that the notions of morality, order and the rights and freedoms of others presuppose the involvement of a third party, they do not appear to be relevant to the facts of the present case.

63. However, the Court does not find it necessary to take a definitive stance as to whether the disputed measure in fact pursued any of the indicated legitimate aims because it considers that, in any event, it was not necessary in a democratic society, for the reasons set out below (see Biržietis v. Lithuania, no. 49304/09, § 54, 14 June 2016).

(iii) Necessity in a democratic society

64. The notion of "necessity" implies that the interference with an individual's right to respect for his or her private life corresponds to a pressing social need and, in particular, that it is proportionate to the legitimate aims pursued. In determining whether an interference was "necessary in a democratic society", the Court will take account of the fact that the Contracting States have a margin of appreciation, the breadth of which depends on a number of factors, including the nature of the activities restricted and the aims pursued by the restrictions. In any event, it remains incumbent on the respondent State to demonstrate the existence of the pressing social need behind the interference (see Khoroshenko, cited above, § 118, with further references).

65. In the present case the Constitutional Court acknowledged that the legal provision in issue was cast in absolute terms (see paragraph 23 above). To the extent that the Government referred to any discretion on the part of the prison's educational officer in assessing individual circumstances, this played no role in the circumstances of the case and such discretion has not been substantiated in any concrete terms.

66. As likewise acknowledged by the Constitutional Court, possession of explicit material in the prison context puts the private interest of the person concerned in opposition to the public interest.

67. As to the former, being aware that imprisonment entailed a total exclusion of intimate contact with the opposite sex, the Constitutional Court recognised that pornography could serve as a stimulus for auto-erotic satisfaction.

68. In addition, for its part, the Court notes that the applicant's individual situation is marked by the following relevant features. In view of his sentence and the organisation of the Slovakian prison system, the applicant's state of deprivation of any direct intimate contact is long-term, if not permanent. There is no indication that the applicant has ever been convicted of a sexual offence or has suffered from any condition in which the material in question could trigger violent or otherwise inappropriate behaviour. Furthermore, there has been no suggestion that the material in question involved any elements proscribed by law as such. On the contrary, material of that kind is commonly available through the general distribution of the press to the adult population in the respondent State and beyond. The information available indicates that the material was kept in the applicant's private sphere and was destined exclusively for his individual and private use within that sphere, in particular in his cell of which he was the sole occupant.

69. In this context, the Court considers that the relatively negligible level of penalty imposed on the applicant is not decisive. This is mainly because the core of the problem is the underlying ban and not the sanction and also because, had the ban been breached repeatedly, the sanction was bound to increase in severity (see paragraph 28 above).

70. Concerning the public interests at play, and in particular that of the protection of morals, the Court notes that it is not possible to find in the legal and social orders of the Contracting Parties a uniform European conception of morals. The view taken of the requirements of morals varies from time to time and from place to place, especially in the present era, characterised as it is by the far-reaching evolution of opinions on the subject. By reason of their direct and continuous contact with the vital forces of their countries, State authorities are in principle in a better position than the international judge to give an opinion on the exact content of these requirements, as well as on the "necessity" of a "restriction" or "penalty" intended to meet those requirements (see Müller and Others v. Switzerland, 24 May 1988, § 35, Series A no. 133, and, more recently, Pryanishnikov v. Russia, no. 25047/05, § 53, 10 September 2019).

71. The respondent Contracting Party's margin of appreciation in relation to the means for the protection of morals would accordingly be a wide one (see, for example, Dickson v. the United Kingdom [GC], no. 44362/04, § 78, ECHR 2007-V). However, at the same time, the Court reiterates that a justification for any restriction on Convention rights of prisoners cannot be based solely on what would offend public opinion (ibid., § 68).

72. Furthermore, as to the prevention of disorder in prison and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others, the Court notes that no concrete evidence or examples have been furnished supporting the allegation that possession of adult content as in the applicant's case entailed genuine risks in relation to these values. As to the rehabilitation and reintegration aspect of the purpose of a prison sentence (see Khoroshenko, cited above, § 121), the Court observes that it is in general recognised at the national level and that prisoners are forbidden to keep objects incompatible with that purpose (see paragraph 26 above). However, this particular ground for sanctioning the applicant for the possession of the impugned material was not relied on in the assessment of his case at the national level.

73. As to any balancing of the competing interests, the Constitutional Court distinguished those at the applicant's individual level and those at a general level. Concerning the former, it confirmed the lack of legislative scope for taking into account any individual interests, and the prison administration's practical inability to deal with individual cases in a differentiated manner (see paragraph 24 above).

74. Furthermore, in general terms, the Constitutional Court held that it had no power to deal with the problem in response to an individual complaint. Rather, it referred to the notion of rational lawmakers, presuming that the latter would have based the legislation they passed on the requisite expert assessment. However, neither the Constitutional Court in its judgment nor the Government in the proceedings before the Court have supported this presumption by reference to any actual expert evaluation (see Dickson, cited above, § 83).

75. In these circumstances, not even the Constitutional Court's assessment can be accepted as involving any real weighing of the competing individual and public interests (ibid., § 82).

76. The contested ban thus amounted to a general and indiscriminate restriction not permitting the required proportionality assessment in an individual case (ibid., § 84; see also, mutatis mutandis, Hirst, cited above, § 82).

77. The Court finds that the absence of such an assessment both at the legislative level and on the facts of the applicant's individual case as regards a matter of importance for him must be seen as falling outside any acceptable margin of appreciation, such that a fair balance was not struck between the competing public and private interests involved.

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020220929ei9s0000y


Further anti-Russian sanctions are debated in EU - Lipavsky
354 字
2022 年 10 月 3 日 13:40 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds info on Zeman-Kacer meeting in bottom para.

Prague, Oct 3 (CTK) - Another package of sanctions against Russia is currently being debated in the EU and so there is no point in any further comments on this matter until the debate is over, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said at a press conference today after meeting his Slovak counterpart Rastislav Kacer.

Lipavsky (Pirates) considers keeping the sanctions against Russia in force important, be it over its illegal annexation of Ukrainian regions or the war crimes. There are several open questions on further sanctions, he added.

The EU countries have adopted six direct packages of sanctions. The latest set was approved in July. The European Commission representatives do not call this the seventh package of sanctions, but the specification of the previously imposed measures.

The set related to the ban on imports of Russian gold and the limitation of exports of the products that can be used for military purposes. The measures against the biggest Russian bank Sberbank were widened, too. Some 50 Russian citizens and several firms were added to the sanction list.

The Czech Republic has supported the idea of setting up a special tribunal for war crimes, Lipavsky said. "Nowadays, we do not have a mechanism that would legally unequivocally determine the aggression as the Charter of the United Nations defines it," he added.

The Russian leadership should bear responsibility for its deeds in Ukraine, he said.

Slovakia also supports further tightening of the sanctions.

Kacer said the Russian attack on a sovereign state meant a huge challenge not only for Slovakia, Czechia and the EU, but globally as well. He said the victory of Ukraine was crucial.

"There will be no stability in Europe without free Ukraine with no invaders," Kacer said.

President Milos Zeman received Kacer at the presidential manor in Lany near Prague later today. Presidential Office foreign section head Rudolf Jindrak and Czech Ambassador to Slovakia Tomas Tuhy attended the meeting, shows the photograph on Twitter[https://twitter.com/PREZIDENTmluvci/status/1576879357267968000], released by Zeman's spokesman Jiri Ovcacek.

buj,hol/dr/hol,rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221003eia30000m


Slovakia enables to supply goods for arms making to Russia-press
479 字
2022 年 11 月 4 日 11:58 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Bratislava 4, Nov 4 (CTK) - Slovakia has supplied thousands of pieces of goods, such as bearings, machines for tyre part production and entire engines, which can be used for manufacturing of heavy weapons since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Dennik N Slovak daily writes today.

The Slovak Financial Administration said in reaction that the cited commodities were not subject to restrictive measures.

However, Slovak Defence Minister Jaroslav Nad promised to redress the situation.

The paper writes that Slovakia, unlike the neighbouring Czech Republic, does not check the exports of sensitive commodities so thoroughly.

Dennik N writes that Slovak customs officers probably did not verify whether the cited commodities can be used for military equipment making as well.

Moreover, a decision of the Economy Ministry is needed on exports of dual-use goods, for both civilian and military use. The ministry said it had not issued licences for exports of such commodities to Russia or Iran.

The paper writes that Slovakia, for instance, supplied bearings to a Russian engine producer whose customer is a Belarusian firm on the sanction list, and the Slovak authorities enabled a firm to supply an ultralight plane building set with an Austrian-made engine to Iran, while this type of engine was found in an Iranian drone that the Russian military used for its attacks on civilian targets in Ukraine. The engine producer denied having supplied them to Iran.

"The financial administration does not decide on whether the goods exported to Russia will be used for the Russian military or not, and cannot influence whether it could end up in the Russian army," the daily quotes the office's statement. The office added that it would not enable exports to a firm from the EU sanction list.

Nad called the cited exports to Russia a problem and PM Eduard Heger had the exports checked.

"I consider this a problem and we will take corresponding measures after assessing the whole list of the supplied goods," Dennik N cites Nad as saying.

"In the Czech Republic, we are granting hundreds of licences a year and we examine particular exports of dual-use goods. In Slovakia, there are just units of such deals. The problem is that the Slovak authorities do not look into them," the Czech daily Denik N cites a source from the Czech state bodies approving exports of dual-use goods.

The Slovak secret service SIS writes in the report[https://www.sis.gov.sk/pre-vas/sprava-o-cinnosti.html#nelegalnyobch] on its work in 2021 that it monitored several activities in support of the Russian defence industry and some cases of trading in dual-use goods were assessed as problematic.

After the Russian attack on Ukraine in February, Slovakia clearly sided with Kyiv. Bratislava delivered military materiel and equipment, including the S-300 air defence system, to Ukraine.

hol/mr/kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221104eib40000h


Slovak Press Today
1930 字
2022 年 11 月 7 日 07:27 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, November 7 (SITA) -

SANCTIONS: Regarding goods exports to the Russian Federation and Iran, the Economy Ministry has not failed and it dully fulfills and has been fulfilling its obligations ensuing from the legislation, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and the law on the implementation of international sanctions. Dual-use goods must not be placed under the export regime without the submission of a valid export license issued by the Economy Ministry. Cautious approach is required to exports to countries against which international sanctions have been implemented, spokesperson for the Economy Ministry Maria Pavlusik stated in a press release. The Freedom and Solidarity (SaS) party considers exports of goods to Russia to be a serious failure exclusively of the customs administration under the authority of the Finance Ministry. The new economy minister confirmed this assertion, adding that the department was not asked to issue a license for exports of dual-use goods and did not know about the given exports. According to the daily Dennik N, parts can be exported from Slovakia to other countries, which will then provide them to Russia, or can be exported directly to Russia, where they can be used in the manufacture of heavy weaponry. "These are bearings, machines to produce tire parts and also entire engines," the newspaper reported. It added that customs officials apparently did not check whether the goods could also be used for the production of military equipment during the export approval process. President of the Financial Administration Jiri Zezulka reminded that unless specific goods are on the European Union's sanctions list, customs officials cannot prevent their export. "It is also necessary to realize that if a product can be used in the manufacture of weapons or as a component for weapons, this does not automatically mean that it is subject to international sanctions," said Zezulka. There are concrete items that cannot be exported to Russia and Iran and these are controlled and guarded. The material that had been sent to those countries had not violated the sanctions, which is crucial, PM Eduard Heger (OLaNO) said in the RTVS political talk show ‘Saturday Dialogues’. Companies can further export this material. “As long as the materials are not on the sanction list, we cannot ban their export to those countries. Sanction packages are developing, new materials and persons are being added, but only the European Council can change the sanction list,” the premier said. Heger wants to examine the situation. If it turns out that goods from the sanction list are sent to Russia, measures will be adopted, Heger says. “We’ll take all inevitable remedial steps. We definitely do not want to violate the sanctions and I believe that we are not breaching them,” Heger said. PLUS-4,5 (5.11.) NC-6 (5.11.) SME-1,4 (7.11.) N-2,3,4,5 PRAVDA-4 (7.11.) NC-5 (7.11.)

ENERGY: Households and companies in Slovakia consumed approximately 191 TWh of energy in 2020, down 23% compared to 30 years ago. Despite decreasing consumption, Slovakia is not able to cover domestic consumption with its own sources and has to import them. Of the total consumption, gas accounts for 48 TWh, nuclear sources for 47 TWh, and oil and petroleum products for 42 TWh. The remaining 51 TWh are produced from coal and renewables, analysts of the National Bank of Slovakia’s Monetary analysis, statistics, research, and market operation division pointed out. PLUS-2 (7.11.)

AID: The incumbent government helps families and vulnerable groups during a difficult time as much as no other government ever did, PM Eduard Heger (OLaNO) believes. He rejects the opposition’s criticism that the 15.6-million-euros package and one-off 100-euro contribution for those who were not included in the previous inflation aid are alms. The non-parliamentary party VOICE-SD disagrees with Heger’s statement that the incumbent government “massively” helps people. The party criticizes, for instance, the draft state budget for 2023, which it considers to be non-transparent. PLUS-5 (7.11.)

EDUCATION: Radicalization among students has been on the rise recently and, according to students, it is happening via social platforms, said Prime Minister Eduard Heger (OLaNO) on Friday. "They are finding inspiration abroad, which is all the sadder," he said. Heger underscored that they have to safeguard security at schools. "They are our children, we want them to learn in schools and be safe there. We are having a very intensive discussion with the Minister of Education, Science, Research and Sports Jan Horecky, and we travel to Finland next week to get inspiration regarding this issue," informed Heger. Police Force President Stefan Hamran will join them. "We want to see how the police and the Education Ministry cooperate. We will also draw up an analysis along with a procedure to improve security at schools," said Heger. He reacted to Thursday's axe attack by a student at a secondary school in Novaky. PLUS-9 (5.11.) HN-4

ABDUCTION: MP Juraj Seliga (For the People) has filed a motion with the Prosecutor General's Office to reopen the investigation into abduction of Vietnamese national Trinh Xuan Thanh from Germany to Vietnam in 2017. According to German media, the Vietnamese businessman was probably kidnapped from Germany to Vietnam in the summer of 2017 using Slovak government aircraft. He applied for political asylum in Germany, because in his home country he faced accusations that he had caused extensive damage to an oil company through mismanagement. However, on July 23, 2017, several men ambushed him in Berlin and forced him and his girlfriend to get into a van. According to the German federal prosecutor, the Vietnamese secret service was responsible for the operation. The reason behind Seliga's move is that the case is now reviving again in Germany, while in Slovakia, according to him, the regional prosecutor's office "swept it under the carpet." As he added, the Germans say that the kidnaped Vietnamese was in the Borik government hotel in Bratislava and was then transported by a Slovak government plane. "There is a suspicion that someone from the government or from the state authorities gave permission for the Slovak government plane to be used to kidnap a foreign citizen", said Seliga, who demands that the whole case be properly investigated, since criminal prosecution was not initiated in Slovakia at all. "I believe that just as Maros Zilinka is able to deal with cemeteries and scooters, he will also deal with the extremely serious suspicion that someone from the former government and the police covered and helped kidnap a Vietnamese citizen," he emphasized. In Germany the trial began of a 32-year-old Vietnamese national who stands accused of espionage and complicity in restricting someone else's liberty in connection with the kidnapping. PLUS-4 (5.11.) SME-5 (7.11.)

PRESIDENT: Slovakia’s President Zuzana Caputova received the Freedom Award in Frankfurt am Main on Saturday. The prize is awarded by the Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom once in two years to personalities who have contributed to the development of civil society and support liberal values. “We award (the prize to) Zuzana Caputova for being a model of democracy, actively engaged citizen, and a champion of freedom ideals,” representatives of the foundation stated. In her speech, Caputova stated that she was honored and felt humility, adding that it was impressive how freedom had become stimulation and provided a boost in the past. “A free society can only be built by those who are internally free,” the Slovak president said. PRAVDA-22 (7.11.) PLUS-5 (7.11.)

COURTS: A judge of the Specialized Criminal Court in Pezinok complied with a prosecutor’s proposal and decided to put accused teenager A. B. into custody on Saturday evening. On November 3, A. B. attacked his schoolmates at the Secondary Vocational School in Novaky with an axe. Special Prosecutor Daniel Lipsic, who is the supervising prosecutor in this case, evaluates the court’s decision as legal and correct. PLUS-8 (7.11.) NC-8,9 (7.11.)

ELECTIONS: The outcome of the joint municipal and regional elections reflects the mood in society which is influenced by a period of successive crises, according to PM Eduard Heger (OLaNO). He stressed that important for OLaNO is that Erika Jurinova and Jozef Viskupic defended their posts at the helm of Zilina and Trnava County, respectively. PLUS-4 (7.11.)

INVESTMENTS: A large investment in the woodworking industry heading to the industrial park in Rimavska Sobota, which was announced some time ago by former economy minister Richard Sulik (SaS), is frozen. According to the head of the Parliamentary Economic Committee, Peter Kremsky, the mistake happened at the beginning of the negotiations when the Economy Ministry overestimated the possibilities of wood supply in Slovakia and promised the investor the impossible. "Simply put, ex-minister Sulik miscalculated or significantly overestimated the supply capacity of coniferous sawn timber. Instead of intensively negotiating alternative solutions with the Germans and saving a new investment for Gemer, he let the Ziegler matter be. I am very afraid that the main goal in this whole case was to spend state money on the purchase and improvement of land," Kremsky said, adding that he will try to fix Sulik's mistake with the new management of the ministry. Former Economy Minister Richard Sulik reported on the investment of the Bavarian company Ziegler Group in the prepared industrial park in Rimavska Sobota at the beginning of August last year. At that time, representatives of the state and the company signed a memorandum where the investor declared a serious interest in operating in Slovakia, and the state pledged to support this project. At stake was an investment worth 255 million euros that was to employ 430 people. PRAVDA-9 (7.11.)

FINANCE: The financial assets of households in Slovakia interrupted their long-term growth this year. At the end of the first half, they fell by 2.3% compared to the end of last year, and this decline is likely to continue in the second half of the year, according to VUB bank analysts. According to them, after the previous years of rapid growth of financial assets, this year is a turning point, which can have a significant impact on the consumer behavior of households. In the second quarter, the value of all main monitored asset classes decreased, i.e. held cash, deposits, bonds, shares, the value of savings in life insurance or pension funds. "Judging by the partial data, households' financial assets continued to decline in the third quarter of this year," VUB bank's analysts state. Households' deposits in banks, which account for almost half of total financial assets, decreased by some 170 million euros (0.4%) more in September compared to June. In addition to financial assets, the prices of real assets, including real estate, are gradually being reassessed. "For Slovaks, this can have an even more significant impact than the decrease in the value of financial assets, since the vast majority of the total wealth of citizens in Slovakia, around 80%, consists of real and not financial assets," the analysis states. However, Slovakia also sees a reversal in the previous trend of price growth. And with the onset of recession, continued growth in interest rates, cost of living, as well as energy prices and other housing operating costs, according to analysts, it is probably only a matter of time before property owners feel a decrease in their market value. HN-6

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020221107eib700001


Slovak customs authorities fail to prevent exports to Russia
502 字
2022 年 11 月 8 日 06:52 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Slovak DennikN daily reported that Slovak customs police have been allowing export of IT and technology products to Russia, as well as to Belarus or Iran, which can be used for military purposes. These include technology for manufacturing tyres, bearings or entire gears. Slovak customs authorities deny wrongdoing, but local politicians say authorities have let Ukraine down.

“Our goal is to possibly prevent indirect support of Russian federation’s aggressive war against Ukraine”, the Slovak office of government is quoted as responding to DennikN’s inquiry.

Goods which can be used for military purposes are subject to sanctions, and the Slovak daily reported that some of the exports which took place after February 24 include entire production unit for cargo tyres Kama. These can also be used by Russian armoured vehicles Tiger which carry anti-tank missile system Kornet-E or by cargo vehicles Ural which are used by the Russian army in Ukraine.

DennikN also points out that it is not clear from the list it possesses whether these goods come from Slovak manufacturers or from elsewhere in the EU. Other examples of exported goods include bearings for Russian company GK Jard from Yaroslav, which assembles gear components for Belarussian company MAZ. The military division of MAZ, MKZT, produces carriers for missile systems TOR, BUK and OSA or carriers for intercontinental ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads Topol-M.

Still more examples include exports of Austrian gears Rotax 912 to Iran, which are used by Iranian drones deployed by the Russian army in Ukraine against civilian targets. These are assembled by Slovak company Aerospool from Prievidza.

DennikN’s reporting stirred wide reactions, with the industry ministry saying it needs to verifiy the findings and the government office saying it will closely analyse the situation. Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee for Defence and Security Juraj Krupa of now opposition SaS told Slovak media that it is “a mega-scandal” and that “Slovakia is a security hole”.

Krupa is calling for a parliamentary meeting on Wednesday November 9 and wants finance, defence and interior ministers to be present.

Customs authorities are part of the finance ministry, which is headed by Igor Matovic of OLaNO over whose role in the cabinet a months-long political crisis ensued, leaving the cabinet of premier Eduard Heger in a minority after SaS left the ruling coalition.

The finance ministry rejected it would knowingly assist the Russian war effort in Ukraine. The ministry pointed out that customs authorities together with finance ministry “were actively solving the refugee crisis and humanitarian aid on the border after the unprecedented attack of Ukraine by the military aggressor”.

In its initial response to DennikN, customs authorities said they don’t make decisions over whether the “goods exported to Russia will or will not be used by the Russian army”, and that they don’t have “influence whether goods can end up in the Russian army”, adding that the EU’s sanction lists are followed.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221108eib8001gu


Slovak Press Today
2014 字
2022 年 11 月 8 日 07:20 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, November 8 (SITA) -

TRIPARTITE: The Economic and Social Council has agreed on assistance to energy-intensive businesses by the end of this year, representatives of the state, employers and trade unions informed after Monday's meeting. "We will use the call as it was in the past in the amount of 40 million euros for energy-intensive companies, it is something that is notified, it is something that we can use quickly, as soon as this year," stated State Secretary of the Economy Ministry Peter Svec. The aid could cover some 120 businesses that directly employ around 50,000 people. "We want to lead the economy through the crisis and ensure appropriate support for employers," Prime Minister Eduard Heger said. In his words, the agreed upon assistance is swift, efficient and targeted. Labor Minister Milan Krajniak appreciated that all social partners agreed on the aid, he considers the aid scheme to be good not only because of the number of employees whom it will cover, but also because it has been tested and that they can pay out the necessary funds quickly. State Secretary of the Finance Ministry Marcel Klimek emphasized that the aid is also budget-responsible and fair. The employers welcomed the agreement at the tripartite level, but underscored that negotiations will continue. "The next stage awaits us, to put energy prices in order for next year," said the head of the Association of Industrial Unions and Transport, Alexey Beljajev. According to him, these solutions must be comparable to the proposals of other European countries and must be adopted quickly. If this does not happen, there is a risk that some entrepreneurs will not be able to handle the situation that they will face at the beginning of next year. The Trade Unions Confederation also applauds the agreement. Its head Monika Uhlerova highlighted in particular the fact that it will help retain employees and people will not be affected by mass layoffs. HN-1 PRAVDA-10 PLUS-3

BUDGET: The Ministry of Finance invites the representatives of the SaS parliamentary caucus to a working meeting on the draft law on the state budget for 2023. The Ministry of Finance is thus responding to some MPs who have publicly declared that they would not support the budget, the press department of the Ministry of Finance informed. The meeting will be held at the Ministry of Finance on Thursday (November 10) at 2:00 p.m. "The Ministry of Finance of the Slovak Republic desires a substantive and professional discussion, but not through messages in the media, but at the round table," stated the Ministry of Finance. PRAVDA-9

HIGHWAY: The Cabinet has approved a proposal for the preparation of the R4 expressway from border with Poland to Kapusany. At its online session on Monday, the ministers also approved a proposal to streamline the processes of preparing highways and expressways. The aim of the measures to be introduced is to accelerate and streamline the process of investment preparation of highways and roads for motor vehicles, especially regarding the preparation of R4, which is part of the international road corridor Via Carpatia. The set of proposed measures includes supplementing the Schedule for the preparation and construction of road infrastructure projects with an investment project in the scope of project preparation and preparation of project documentation for all sections of R4, which consists of nine sections between our border with Poland and Kapusany, which is some 60 kilometers long. It is also necessary to obtain a zoning decision for all R4 sections on the mentioned route. The measures also include the preparation of a draft amendment to the law on one-off extraordinary measures in the preparation of certain highway and road constructions and amendments to the law on real estate cadaster (cadastral law). This should significantly speed up investment preparation, prevent existing decisions from becoming invalid and achieve time reduction of some 18 months. In a bilateral agreement with the Republic of Poland, the Slovak Republic obliges itself to make every effort to connect the R4 and the S19 expressway by the end of 2028. Nevertheless, Poland is announcing the completion of its connection in 2026, and Hungary completed its section from Miskolc to the state border with Slovakia in 2021. According to the material, Slovakia is currently no longer able to meet the agreed connection deadline, while it needs to accelerate the process of investment preparation and build the expressway in line with international agreements in the shortest possible time. HN-11

SUBSIDIES: The Cabinet has okayed legislative changes to help Slovak companies pay high energy bills. At its extraordinary meeting on Monday, the Cabinet approved an amendment to the law on the provision of subsidies that are in the purview of the Economy Ministry. As the department informed, the amendment in question responds to the situation when companies face soaring energy bills which have a negative impact on their economic operation. This year, 600 million euros should be thrown at energy subsidies to Slovak companies. The Economy Ministry also plans to help businesses next year and in 2024. "In the years 2023 and 2024, funds for these purposes will be secured from the expenses of the Economy Ministry's chapter, which were increased by 1.4 billion euros in 2023 due to price compensation (still at the stage of the draft public administration budget for the years 2023-2025). The amount of subsidies in 2023 and 2024 cannot currently be determined, therefore they are not included in the quantification," the Economy Ministry said. The amendment to the law on the provision of subsidies within the purview of the Economy Ministry, which the House should discuss in a fast-track procedure, brings legislative adjustments that are necessary for the ministry to provide aid to companies affected by the crisis, to mitigate the negative impact of soaring electricity and gas prices. A new provision is inserted into the law, which represents the legal basis of support through subsidies for eligible applicants. According to the bill, applicants on the EU's sanction list will not be eligible for the aid. The ministry will determine the maximum amount of the subsidies in its call for applications. HN-10

PG: Prosecutor General Maros Zilinka has ordered to check whether there have been any deliberate or negligent actions by relevant public officials when performing tasks related to protecting the borders of the Slovak Republic from illegal migration. Zilinka posted on a social network that he wants to learn whether there has been any criminal abuse of the authority of a public official or obstruction of a task by a public official. The Interior Ministry will not yet respond to Prosecutor General Maros Zilinka's statements. "At the moment, the Ministry of the Interior does not have any information about what should be the subject of the probe. Therefore, we will not comment on the above at this time," spokeswoman Zuzana Eliasova writes in the stance. HN-1,5 PRAVDA-3 PLUS-4

SaS: The opposition Freedom and Solidarity (SaS) party calls on Prime Minister Eduard Heger to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Security Council over exports of goods to Russia and Iran. "The dubious export of goods to a war aggressor is an act of hostility towards Ukraine. This scandal must not remain unanswered so that it can be forgotten about as soon as possible. Exports of materials that can be used for military purposes must be investigated immediately and, above all, stopped," said head of the Parliamentary Defense and Security Committee Juraj Krupa (SaS). Krupa believes that the Security Council should also deal with the situation regarding migrants and the chaotic actions of the Interior Ministry. "The response of Interior Minister [Roman Mikulec (OLaNO)] to traffic jams of several kilometers on the border with the Czech Republic and wandering migrants was only the absurd building of a tent city,"said Krupa. In his words, the problem should be dealt at the border with Hungary. "The Security Council must tackle problems piling up on our eastern and western borders urgently," he said. "It is a scandal that not only affects Slovakia, but also spills over the borders of Europe. Slovakia massively violates the embargo on the exports of dual-use material to countries such as Iran, Russia and Belarus. I consider the reaction of the Financial Administration on this topic to be scandalous. I think that there are fundamental failures that it tries to sweep under the rug," said Krupa. He added that "the Finance Ministry thus participates in helping the aggressor". "We'll see whether it is an intention or incompetence," he emphasized. SME-2 PLUS-4

PRESIDENT: President Zuzana Caputova says that the date for the referendum on the possibility of an early termination of the parliamentary electoral term, January 21, 2023, was recommended by the Interior Ministry's department of elections, referendums and political parties as the earliest one possible. "The dates are based on the deadlines needed for voting from abroad and on the deadlines for preparing for the referendum. The latest date for the referendum for which I could announce it according to constitutional deadlines, was February 12, 2003," the head of state posted on a social network. She responded to some MPs who criticize the date selected by her. According to Caputova, other dates that could be considered were January 28, February 4 and February 11. "I am curious about a discussion on what would be better about these dates - hardly the weather," wrote the president. According to Caputova, she could not have declared the referendum on one question as early as on October 29, when the merged municipal and regional elections were held, and on the other question only after the Constitutional Court had decided on it. "I am bound by the petition in the form in which it was delivered to me, that is, with two questions in one petition. If two petitions had been submitted to me, for each question separately, then it would have been possible to announce two referendums on different dates," she explained. The most important thing is to write the referendum questions in line with the Slovak Constitution, she added. HN-11 PRAVDA-3

VOICE-SD: The government and the Interior Ministry of the Slovak Republic must prepare well in advance for the impending second wave of migration from Ukraine due to a shortage of electricity and heat in this country, non-affiliated MP Peter Pellegrini, leader of the non-parliamentary party VOICE-SD, announced. With his non-affiliated MPs, he wants to submit a resolution at the parliament session with the ambition to oblige the government to inform about the preparedness for this situation. "It seems that we may face a similar situation, perhaps even greater, than the first wave," said Pellegrini. He said that the Russian army is destroying Ukraine's energy infrastructure with targeted attacks, disrupting electricity and heat supplies. He drew attention to the threat of the second and more massive migration. He called on Interior Minister Roman Mikulec (OLaNO) and the government to inform about the plan and preparedness for the situation. PLUS-6

ECONOMY: The biggest payer of the income tax due for 2021 is U.S. Steel Kosice. With the amount of 152.7 million euros the Kosice steelmaker overtook the long-standing number one, the company eustream that paid slightly over 126 million euros into the state coffers. Slovenske Elektrarne placed third with tax due amounting to almost 86.7 million euros, shows an analysis of the 100 largest payers of income tax due for 2021, published by finstat.sk portal. Compared to 2020, when the amount of tax payable decreased by 0.89% y-o-y, it grew by 30.3% last year, shows an analysis of 250,000 Slovak companies. At the same time, the total amount of the positive value of the corporate income tax due for 2021 amounts to just under 3.443 billion euros. 100 top taxpayers together paid 43.49% of this amount. HN-2 PRAVDA-9

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020221108eib800001


Domestic Policy
Nad Rejects Violation of Sanctions, Krupa Expects Further Steps
408 字
2022 年 11 月 9 日 16:51 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, November 9 (TASR) - Slovakia didn't violate any laws or sanctions in its exports to Russia, Defence Minister Jaroslav Nad (OLaNO) stated on Wednesday in connection with the case of the export of goods to Russia and Iran, which could be misused for military purposes.

Nad said this after an extraordinary joint meeting of the parliamentary financial and security committees. Head of the House defence and security committee Juraj Krupa (Freedom and Solidarity/SaS) still has open questions, he'll be interested in further solutions from the coalition.

"The bubble burst, emotions subsided, politicking went sideways and it turned out that the authorities in Slovakia are doing their jobs as they should. We don't have a single case that would confirm things that were reported in the media or things communicated by opposition politicians," stressed Nad.

However, Nad admitted that abuse of civilian exports, taking parts out and using them for military materials can be happening. Therefore, he doesn't resist a debate on how to expand or tighten the sanction mechanisms, but it would have to be a solution at the level of the European Union or even wider.

Financial Administration (the tax office) head Jiri Zezulka said that they're trying to improve the Financial Administration system for the control of dual-use goods. But he explained that it doesn't mean the system isn't working. "We must ask how it's possible that the Czech [Economy] Ministry issued 550 licenses, while our Economy Ministry issued four licenses," he noted.

Krupa is curious about further conclusions. In return, he expects a draft law from the coalition that would address any shortcomings. "A need has been identified for some kind of legislative adjustment that should address specific issues," he said, adding that the current Financial Administration system is insufficient. "There are flaws, there are suspicions, so if they are confirmed, it is and continues to be a huge scandal for me," he added in connection with the case.

Head of the parliamentary financial committee Marian Viskupic stated that they tasked the Financial Administration to check the data on other potentially problematic cases. The Financial Administration should then inform the committee.

The session was also attended by Finance Minister Igor Matovic, Interior Minister Roman Mikulec (both OLaNO) and Economy Minister Karel Hirman, as well as head of the Slovak Intelligence Service (SIS) Michal Alac.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020221109eib9002gx


Schedules, Summaries
MORNING NEWS HIGHLIGHTS - Thursday, November 10, 2022 - 9 a.m.
934 字
2022 年 11 月 10 日 08:00 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
TASR brings a quick morning overview of the most important events seen in Slovakia on the previous day (Wednesday, November 9):

BRATISLAVA - Slovakia posted a negative trade balance in September with a deficit amounting to €473.3 million, according to preliminary report for September 2022 published by the Statistics Office on Wednesday.

Slovakia thus showed a significant trade-balance deficit for the fourth month in a row. The deficit was €390 million higher compared to September 2021.

Exports rose by 26 percent year-on-year (y-o-y) to almost €9 billion in September, while imports increased by 31.1 percent y-o-y to €9.4 billion.

The country's exports continued to grow for the twelfth month in a row to reach the third highest figure during this period. Imports have been increasing since last February.

BRATISLAVA - No sanctions-related violation of rules of export of goods to Russia has been found, Premier Eduard Heger (OLaNO) said following the Security Council session on Wednesday, adding that Financial Administration (FS) examined all the publicised cases of imports and exports of goods.

"FS President Jiri Zezulka informed us that all the goods mentioned in the media were checked both in terms of papers and physically and there were no violations of sanctions," stressed Heger. He pointed to the fact that other countries export to Russia as well, and in much higher volumes. "On the contrary, our exports to Russia have decreased," he said.

The premier also announced measures to be taken in this regard at the initiative of the FS. "The cooperation with the Czech Republic will be intensified, a new system of training staff in this area will be introduced and the cooperation between the FS and the Economy Ministry will also be significantly strengthened," said Heger.

BRATISLAVA - MPs elected Robert Dobrovodsky as ombudsman on Wednesday.

Of the 138 lawmakers present, 81 MPs supported him, six were against, 43 abstained, and eight ballots were invalid.

Apart from Dobrovodsky, Maros Matiasko and Marian Torok also applied for the post. Matiasko was supported by 13 and Torok by 23 MPs.

Dobrovodsky's five-year tenure starts on the day when he's sworn in. Dobrovodsky was proposed to the post by MP Katarina Hatrakova (Independent). He will replace Maria Patakyova, whose term of office ended on March 29. The first deadline to submit proposals was originally set for February 25, since then it was moved to September.

TOKYO - Japanese Emperor Naruhito presented Slovak diplomat Miroslav Lajcak with the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Rising Sun award for his contribution to the deepening of relations between Slovakia and Japan, TASR was told by the Japanese embassy in Bratislava on the same day.

The state awards ceremony took place at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo.

The Grand Cordon of the Order of the Rising Sun is the highest award among the honours of the Order of the Rising Sun, and Lajcak is the first Slovak citizen ever to receive it. This year, apart from Lajcak, the same distinction was awarded to 12 other foreign nationals.

BRATISLAVA - Police have been drafting measures to support the fight against extremism, with the number of specialised officers to be boosted from 50 to 200 and courses planned for teachers to train them on how to detect signs of radicalisation in students, Police Corps President Stefan Hamran reported on Wednesday.

"We're trying to penetrate the school environment with our officers specialised in the prevention of extremism and terrorism," stated Hamran.

The police chief added that the young are radicalised particularly on social networks, including on foreign forums, as young people are often fluent foreign languages speakers.

Hamran conceded that radicalised individuals can be found also within the police ranks. "We have them also in the Police Corps, unfortunately. We're trying to identify them and have identified a few already. I trust that the police officers who radicalise themselves in the police environment are to be cut loose within a very short time," he said.

BRATISLAVA - Slovakia didn't violate any laws or sanctions in its exports to Russia, Defence Minister Jaroslav Nad (OLaNO) stated on Wednesday in connection with the case of the export of goods to Russia and Iran, which could be misused for military purposes.

Nad said this after an extraordinary joint meeting of the parliamentary financial and security committees. Head of the House defence and security committee Juraj Krupa (Freedom and Solidarity/SaS) still has open questions, he'll be interested in further solutions from the coalition.

"The bubble burst, emotions subsided, politicking went sideways and it turned out that the authorities in Slovakia are doing their jobs as they should. We don't have a single case that would confirm things that were reported in the media or things communicated by opposition politicians," stressed Nad.

However, Nad admitted that abuse of civilian exports, taking parts out and using them for military materials can be happening. Therefore, he doesn't resist a debate on how to expand or tighten the sanction mechanisms, but it would have to be a solution at the level of the European Union or even wider.

Financial Administration (the tax office) head Jiri Zezulka said that they're trying to improve the Financial Administration system for the control of dual-use goods. But he explained that it doesn't mean the system isn't working. "We must ask how it's possible that the Czech [Economy] Ministry issued 550 licenses, while our Economy Ministry issued four licenses," he noted.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020221110eiba0005l


Slovakia This Week - November 11, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 11 日, 3295 字, (英文)
Turnover in Slovak industry and transport grows by double digits in SeptemberIn September turnover grew in in four out five of the monitored sectors of the economy year-on-year, Statistical Office of the Slovak Republic (Office) reports.

Slovak Press Today
2128 字
2022 年 11 月 11 日 07:56 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2022 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, November 11 (SITA) -

HEALTH CARE: The Health Ministry expects by Monday concrete reservations of the Medical Trade Unions Association (LOZ) to the proposed memorandum. Health Minister Vladimir Lengvarsky stated. "I believe that by Monday we will receive specific reservations towards specific points, what the memorandum should look like," he said. Lengvarsky agreed with LOZ head Peter Visolajsky on a meeting on Monday. According to the minister, PM Eduard Heger is also ready to meet with representatives of the medical unions. Lengvarsky said that his ministry is preparing variant solutions to doctors' salaries, but this issue will depend on the budget and the Finance Ministry's stance. "Emergency health care will function in any case," said the minister regarding the situation after November 30, when employment contracts of 2,100 doctors who tendered their resignations terminate. He wants to meet with hospital directors next week to evaluate the situation regionally. "I believe that such a situation will not occur, but if it does, we will deal with how to provide health care so that patients are affected as little as possible," he said. Finance Minister Igor Matovic should also participate in negotiations with the LOZ representatives. Lengvarsky also informed about the fulfillment of the eight requirements on the part of the Health Ministry. He said that his department and the Finance Ministry agreed to increase payments for Slovak students from the academic year 2023/2024. He believes that key is the solution of the specialization study of young doctors, where important legislative changes have been made, as well as adjustments to residency study. He also mentioned the revision to the decree on minimum standards for specialized and certification studies, which should set a new way of evaluating and preparing medical studies. According to the minister, the changes that will occur in individual steps are in accordance with the standards of the European Union. Lengvarsky also mentioned the initiative to introduce new types of medical professions. The minister considers the salaries of nurses to have been resolved through an amended law, which increased their wage coefficients. According to the minister, the Health Ministry has no other options for increasing the salaries of nurses. "In addition to the salaries of nurses and doctors, we tried to tackle the salaries of other health workers as well," he said. Lengvarsky confirmed that doctors' salaries will be additionally increased in 2024 and 2025. In 2024, doctors' salaries should be hiked by further 8% and in 2025 even by more than 10%. N-17 PRAVDA-1,2,3 NC-1,6,7

SUBSIDIES: It will be easier for the Economy Ministry to help Slovak businesses pay high energy bills after the House approved on Thursday an amendment to the Act on the Provision of Subsidies under the Economy Ministry's Remit. The approved bill introduces legislative changes that are necessary for the ministry to provide aid to companies affected by the crisis, to mitigate the negative impact of soaring electricity and gas prices. A new provision is incorporated in the law, which introduces the legal basis of support through subsidies for eligible applicants. According to the approved legislation, applicants on the EU's sanction list will not be eligible for the aid. The ministry will determine the maximum amount of the subsidies in its call for applications. As the department informed, the amendment in question responds to the situation when companies face soaring energy bills which have a negative impact on their economic operation. This year, 600 million euros should be thrown at energy subsidies to Slovak companies. The Economy Ministry also plans to help businesses next year and in 2024. "In the years 2023 and 2024, funds for these purposes will be secured from the expenses of the Economy Ministry's chapter, which were hiked by 1.4 billion euros in 2023 due to price compensation (still at the stage of the draft public administration budget for the years 2023-2025). The amount of subsidies in 2023 and 2024 cannot currently be determined, therefore they are not included in the quantification," the Economy Ministry said. PRAVDA-9

ECONOMY: September sales soared y-o-y in four out of the five monitored sectors of the economy. The Statistical Office reported on Thursday that sales posted a double-digit growth in industry, transport and warehousing and in the ICT sector. Construction also reported a higher value in annual terms after four months. Only selected market services continued dropping. Industry as the most important sector in the structure of the economy maintained a double-digit growth in sales in September for a second month in a row. They rose 15.1%. Sales in industry were chiefly driven by car production (+38.3%) and manufacture of metals (+15.4%). Double-digit increase in production of machinery and electrical equipment also contributed to the result. Conversely, sales were hampered by a drop in manufacture of computer products (-16.5%) and also in electricity and gas supplies (-5.4%). HN-12

SOCIAL: The average monthly nominal wage in Slovakia rose y-o-y in all ten monitored sectors in September. Gross earnings increased the most in accommodation, by 17.2%. Two-digit growth was also reported in construction (+13%). Wages went up 9.3% in industry. Food and beverage services, a sector with the lowest earnings, saw the lowest growth of 1.8%, informed the Statistical Office. Adjusted for inflation, real wages decreased almost in all ten sectors, with the most significant drop of nearly 11% in food and beverage services. Real wage dwindled 9.9% in the ICT sector and over 5% in maintenance of motor vehicles, wholesale, retail, selected market services and transport and warehousing. On average for the first nine months of this year, the nominal monthly wage increased by more than a fifth in accommodation. It also grew more significantly in construction, up 11.1%, and in retail by 10.9%. The lowest nominal wage growth was recorded in selected market services, down 4.9%. PRAVDA-8

TOURISM: Aid to tourism should be aimed at the entire industry, not just some of its parts. According to Minister of Transport and Construction Andrej Dolezal (We Are Family nominee), lower value added tax (VAT) is a tool for competitiveness. Dolezal responded to the deputy proposal for a temporary reduction of VAT for surface lifts and chairlifts, water parks and selected sports venues for the first four months of next year from 20% to 10%. The minister regrets that this happened outside his department. "Even during COVID pandemic, it turned out that neighboring countries slashed VAT on both tourism and gastronomy sectors. We stuck up with our 20 percent, and it didn't help," Dolezal posted on a social network on Thursday. According to him, they attempted to reduce this tax in order to improve the competitiveness of Slovak tourism already during the pandemic, but they encountered lack of political will for such a move. "Now we use a lower VAT as an aid tool. It will certainly help, but I think it would be better if we helped the entire sector more comprehensively," Dolezal thinks. As he added, the negotiations on this issue are still pending. The reduction of VAT for selected areas was proposed by MP Milan Svrcek (We Are Family), within the parliamentary debate on an amendment to the VAT Act just before the vote. The House in the end postponed the vote on Tuesday, November 8. PRAVDA-9

COURTS: A right-wing extremist who used the nickname Slovakbro will spend six years in a minimum-security prison. As a prosecutor of the Special Prosecutor's Office told he media, the Specialized Criminal Court issued the verdict after approving a plea bargain with the accused. "The court found the accused guilty of committing several crimes. The most serious was the crime of some forms of participation in terrorism," said the prosecutor. He specified that in addition to serving time, the man will have to forfeit some of his property. According to the prosecutor, the accused confessed to his actions, regretted them and assisted the law enforcement agencies in clarifying them. Court decision is valid. Slovakbro was detained by the National Criminal Agency (NAKA) in May, as he was suspected of having publicly incited the overthrow of the democratic political system through subversion and sabotage, as well as acts of terrorism. PRAVDA-4,5 PLUS-10, NC-10

SLOVAKIA – FINLAND: Prime Minister of the Slovak Republic Eduard Heger (OLaNO) expressed Slovakia's unequivocal support for Finland's NATO membership at the meeting with Finnish President Sauli Niinistö. Slovakia ratified the accession protocols of Finland and Sweden to the North Atlantic Alliance in September. Heger also talked with Niinistö about aid to Ukraine in the short and long term. Niinistö was also interested in the Slovak automotive industry, as well as the consequences of the energy crisis. On this occasion, Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin thanked Slovakia for a prompt ratification of the accession protocols of Finland and Sweden. "I am glad that we cooperate with Finland and other countries to find alternative sources and to be independent from Russia," Heger indicated another point of interest of both states. HN-1 PLUS-4

MIGRANTS: The Interior Ministry does not plan to expand the tent city for illegal migrants in Kuty. Slovakia does not want to become a long-term temporary station. "We emphasize that the goal is not to accommodate illegal migrants in Slovakia for a long time. It is necessary to solve this topic at the European level so that our country does not become a temporary long-term station for the attitude and actions of colleagues from the Czech Republic," said ministry's spokeswoman Zuzana Eliasova. She underlined that illegal migrants do not want to stay in Slovakia but are particularly heading to Germany. According to the Interior Ministry, the problem with illegal migrants must be solved at the all-European level. "As a result of the introduction of border checks by the Czech Republic towards Slovakia, despite the agreement from previous negotiations that this will not happen, or only as a last resort, illegal migrants who would otherwise not be in Slovakia will be concentrated in our country these days," said Eliasova. The ministry, however, believes that the European Union will face this problem head-on and begin to solve the problem across the board. According to Police President Stefan Hamran, Slovakia will push for a more significant boosting of the protection of the external Schengen border at the European level. According to him, the European Union is obliged and must be able to protect this space, because otherwise illegal migrants will appear here and tensions will arise between individual member countries. "We will propose strengthening the Serbia-Hungary border, through which illegal migrants come mainly from Syria. We will request the strengthening of joint patrols in Hungary, from where we can return migrants outside the Schengen territory to Serbia. And we will demand that Frontex, which is supposed to protect the external borders, be visible," said Hamran. He emphasized that it is impossible for Slovakia to introduce checks on the Slovak-Hungarian border in the current situation, as it would be extremely expensive and would tie up a large part of the Police Force. SME-8 PLUS-4

CARS: The trade unions at the carmaker Kia Slovakia continue fighting for higher salaries. As they inform, the fifth round of collective bargaining has already taken place, but no accord has been struck yet with the management of the factory. "We don't leave any wiser after the fifth round. Despite the positive developments in the area of inflation compensation and the 14th wage, the topic of tariff remuneration still remains open," the employee representatives said. According to them, the fundamental argument of the employer is the fact that people are already "satisfied". "That is why we wanted to know the answer to the question of why we couldn't receive more? How much more do we have to suffer because we were born in Eastern Europe?" the employee representatives ask, saying that they want to move somewhere and not just give greater guarantees to the company in the form of a three-year collective agreement. The trade unionists submitted a draft amendment to the collective agreement for the years 2020 - 2024 to the factory management in early October. They demand an increase in tariff wages by 150 euros from April 1 next year. Nevertheless, this is not their only requirement. They also put forward a proposal for the payment of an extraordinary bonus in view of the increasing threat of a decline in the standard of living as the result of the rising cost of living. PRAVDA-9

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020221111eibb00001


One EU country didn’t back further Russian sanctions, says Slovak FM
Michal Hudec
161 字
2022 年 11 月 15 日 06:23 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
All but one EU member states agreed on the need for additional sanctions against Russia when discussing the issue at the meeting of foreign affairs ministers on Monday, said Slovak Foreign Minister Rastislav Káčer.

Káčer did not disclose which country was against the sanctions. In recent months, Hungary has been the most vocal against the sanctions, with Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó arguing the bloc should not push for another package.

So far, eight sanction packages have been finalised, and the ninth package is still in the early phase of development. Káčer explained that foreign ministers only explored the willingness of member states to push forward with sanctions and did not talk about content.

Before the Monday council meeting, Káčer met with Belarussian opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya. He stressed the need to support freedom and independence not only in Ukraine but also in Belarus.

(Michal Hudec | EURACTIV.sk)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020221115eibf0000t


Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - November 18, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 18 日, 9423 字, (英文)
Western Balkan politicians call for more co-operation in energy sectorPoliticians from the Western Balkans discussed ways to increase co-operation in the energy sector at a high-level regional conference in Belgrade on November 17.

Czech premier to attend V4 meeting after parliamentary leaders boycott it
491 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日 06:51 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala will attend the Visegrad Group (V4) meeting on November 24 hosted by Slovakia in its second largest city in Kosice not far from the Ukrainian border. The decision comes after Parliamentary Speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova and Czech Senate President Milos Vystrcil boycotted meeting their Hungarian counterparts over the Hungarian stance towards Ukraine and its energy policies.

“Hungarians bilaterally negotiate with Russia over supplies of energy commodities,” Vystrcil told local media, adding that this prevents a “united stance of EU countries and implementation of our goals in this energy crisis” and that the boycott is a “rational and sober way to express disagreement” on the V4 level. The war in Ukraine, the energy crisis and migration are key agenda topics in Kosice.

Pekarova Adamova called Hungary a “trojan horse of Russia” in line with comments of other Czech representatives such as the lower house's vice-speaker Olga Richterova from last week. “It is always Hungarians who agree with the sanction packages last” […], “blackmailing further sanctions, and they are exploiting the war themes domestically against the EU,” Pekarova Adamova said.

Fiala said he wants to discuss “common approach and common rules” on supporting the economy during the energy crisis, pointing to the German €200mn package, which “causes concern among EU member states”. In an interveiw for Czech newsite Seznam Zpravy, Fiala said that after a dialogue “Hungary supported all the key decisions during EU negotiations".

Prior to the war Fiala and Vystrcil’s rightwing ODS avoided criticism of Fidesz and maintained friendly ties with it. ODS MEP Jan Zahradil, who represents the strong conservative and eurosceptic wing within the party, called on the EU to accept Hungarian strongmanViktor Orban after Fidesz’s flawed general election victory in April. Another MEP Alexandr Vondra, a former liberal dissident who has moved to the right, also defends Fidesz rule in Hungary.

One of Fidesz’s 1988 co-founders and the current Speaker of the National Assembly Laszlo Kover issued a press statement in which he regretted the V4 house speakers' meeting was postponed as a result of the Czech boycott.

“The remarks of the speakers of the Czech Parliament concerning our country are untrue and disrespectful,” Kover wrote, highlighting that these “do not correspond to the facts and they call into question the right of the Hungarian government to shape its policy according to the interest of the Hungarian nation”.

Czechia holds the EU’s rotating presidency and its Europan Affairs Minister Mikulas Bek chairs EU discussions over the breaches of rule of law, civil liberties, and democracy in Hungary. Last week Bek criticised Hungary for obstructing the EU’s efforts to raise cash on financial markets for a loan to Ukraine, warning it could alienate EU officials in the upcoming response to Hungary’s proposals to unlock the rule of law conditionality to gain access to EU funds.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221121eibl000xd


News
Czech premier to attend V4 meeting despite boycott of Hungary by parliamentary leaders
Albin Sybera
715 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日 06:51 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala will attend the Visegrad Group (V4) meeting on November 24 hosted by Slovakia, even though Parliamentary Speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova and Senate President Milos Vystrcil boycotted meeting their Hungarian counterparts over Budapest's stance towards Ukraine and its energy policies. The meeting is being held in Slovakia's second largest city in Kosice, not far from the Ukrainian border

Hungary is becoming increasingly isolated in the EU and among its regional allies, the V4 countries, for its more pro-Russian position in Moscow's war against Ukraine and for blocking EU initiatives to punish Moscow for its aggression and help Ukraine. These differences have rendered the regional group moribund since Russia's invasion.

But there are differing views within the V4, the Czech coalition government and even within the rightwing Czech Civic Democrats on how tough a stance to take towards Viktor Orban's radical rightwing regime.

“Hungarians bilaterally negotiate with Russia over supplies of energy commodities,” Vystrcil told local media, adding that this prevents a “united stance of EU countries and implementation of our goals in this energy crisis” and that the boycott is a “rational and sober way to express disagreement” on the V4 level. The war in Ukraine, the energy crisis and migration are key agenda topics in Kosice.

Pekarova Adamova called Hungary a “trojan horse of Russia” in line with comments of other Czech representatives such as the lower house's vice-speaker Olga Richterova from last week. “It is always Hungarians who agree with the sanction packages last” […], “blackmailing further sanctions, and they are exploiting the war themes domestically against the EU,” Pekarova Adamova said.

Fiala said he wants to discuss “common approach and common rules” on supporting the economy during the energy crisis, pointing to the German €200mn package, which “causes concern among EU member states”. In an interveiw for Czech newsite Seznam Zpravy, Fiala said that after a dialogue “Hungary supported all the key decisions during EU negotiations".

Prior to the war Fiala and Vystrcil’s rightwing ODS avoided criticism of Fidesz and maintained friendly ties with it. ODS MEP Jan Zahradil, who represents the strong conservative and eurosceptic wing within the party, called on the EU to accept Hungarian strongmanViktor Orban after Fidesz’s flawed general election victory in April. Another MEP Alexandr Vondra, a former liberal dissident who has moved to the right, also defends Fidesz rule in Hungary.

One of Fidesz’s 1988 co-founders and the current Speaker of the National Assembly Laszlo Kover issued a press statement in which he regretted the V4 house speakers' meeting was postponed as a result of the Czech boycott.

“The remarks of the speakers of the Czech Parliament concerning our country are untrue and disrespectful,” Kover wrote, highlighting that these “do not correspond to the facts and they call into question the right of the Hungarian government to shape its policy according to the interest of the Hungarian nation”.

Czechia holds the EU’s rotating presidency and its Europan Affairs Minister Mikulas Bek chairs EU discussions over the breaches of rule of law, civil liberties, and democracy in Hungary. Last week Bek criticised Hungary for obstructing the EU’s efforts to raise cash on financial markets for a loan to Ukraine, warning it could alienate EU officials in the upcoming response to Hungary’s proposals to unlock the rule of law conditionality to gain access to EU funds.

Poland and Slovakia have also strongly criticised Hungary's stance towards Russia and Ukraine. In an interview published on November 9, Slovak Foreign Minister Rastislav Kacer (a former Slovak ambassador to Hungary) told the Slovak website Napunk [https://napunk.dennikn.sk/hu/3097730/rastislav-kacer-kulugyminiszter-orbanek-ervei-a-szankciokrol-mintha-a-kreml-kezikonyvebol-szarmaznanak/?utm_source=Insight+Hungary&utm_campaign=690d815a00-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2022_11_17_06_09&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_-690d815a00-%5BLIST_EMAIL_ID%5D](published in Hungarian) that Hungary's arguments against sanctions "seem to come from the Kremlin playbook".

"The arguments we hear from the Hungarian government are often the same as those used by the Kremlin's propaganda in its information war. I do not understand. These sanctions are in no way more damaging to Europe. Some even say they are helping Russia – if that were true, Russia wouldn't be rebelling against them. Hungary is alone in the European Union with this view and is completely isolated from its other Western allies"

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221121eibl001md


Emerging Markets Monitor
Economic Analysis - Week Ahead: Unconventional Monetary Policy To Continue In Europe's East
1600 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日
Emerging Markets Monitor
EMDN
英文
© 2022 Fitch Solutions, Inc
This week, we at Fitch Solutions will be paying close attention to monetary policy meetings at the Hungarian National Bank (MNB, November 22) and the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkiye (CBRT, November 24). The pair have been conducting monetary policy in an unorthodox manner, albeit in different ways.

We expect the MNB to hold their benchmark policy rate at 13.00% on Tuesday. This view is in line with consensus and any departure would be a big surprise given the bank has announced the official end of their policy tightening cycle. What will be more interesting is the press release and minutes following the meeting. Since October 14, monetary conditions have been determined in Hungary by the one-day quick deposit tender, which is the de facto main policy rate and can be adjusted daily by the Bank. We hope that the press release will reveal more details about the instrument, presently set at 18.00%, namely how long will the instrument (which the MNB note as 'targeted and temporary') be in use. Under the current setup, the phasing out of the instrument and reinstatement of one-week tenders (which were phased out in October as the quick deposit tool was introduced) at 13.00% would mean an effective 500 basis points (bps) cut. It is unclear whether the MNB would unwind these 500bps in one go or with gradual cuts (we believe likely the latter to avoid a crash in the Hungarian forint). Regardless, a dovish pivot from the MNB will be tempting against a backdrop of weakening economic activity ( real GDP contracted 0.4% q-o-q in Q322) although soaring inflation of 21.1% y-o-y (October print) complicates matters.

Convoluted Monetary Policy In Hungary

Hungary - Interest And Interbank Rates, %

Source: Macrobond, Fitch Solutions

We anticipate a 150bps rate cut to 9.00% on Thursday from the CBRT. The CBRT is in the midst of an interest rate cutting cycle, in spite of inflation hitting fresh highs of 85.5% y-o-y in the October print. This stance from the Central Bank broadly falls in line with the viewpoint held by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. A cut to 9.00% would leave the rate in line with Erdogan's expectations of a single digit rate by year end (per September 29 comments). We expect the Bank to go slightly further, with a 100bps cut to 8.00% coming in the December meeting. However, we expect the post election (June 2023) period to return a degree of orthodoxy to the CBRT, with the bank hiking their main policy rate to 24.00% shortly after. In the meantime, we anticipate continued loose policy, with interest rates remaining heavily negative (see chart below), although the CBRT will likely continue introducing macroprudential policies to encourage lira bank deposit holdings (over the current high proportion of FX deposits).

 Real Interest Rates Very Negative In Turkiye
 Turkiye - Main Policy Rate vs Consumer Price Inflation

<TD>Source: Macrobond, Fitch Solutions

Previous Week's Highlights...

Central and Eastern Europe: GDP figures for Hungary, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, and Slovenia were released on November 15. We expected softer growth in much of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) as rising inflation posed greater headwinds to demand, while an unfavourable external backdrop further hampered activity. Broadly in line with our expectations, third quarter growth in Hungary contracted by 0.4% quarter-on-quarter (q-o-q), which left the year-on-year figure at 4.0% in Q322, down from 6.5% in Q222. Polish GDP expanded 0.9% q-o-q (3.5% y-o-y), while Romania saw growth of 1.3% (4.6%). Bulgarian GDP expanded by 0.6% in Q322, while seeing y-o-y growth decelerate to 3.2% compared to 4.6% in the previous quarter. Slovakian GDP grew by 0.3% q-o-q for the fourth consecutive quarter, while its y-o-y growth decelerated from 1.3% in Q222 to 1.2% in Q322. Slovenian growth came in at its lowest level since Q121. GDP expanded 3.4% y-o-y in Q322 compared to 8.3% in the second quarter of 2022, recording a 1.4% q-o-q contraction versus our expectation of a 1.0% contraction.

United Kingdom: The UK's Office for National Statistics released its unemployment figures for Q322 on November 15. The unemployment rate in the increased very modestly by 0.1 percentage points, which was broadly in line with our expectations. While the labour market remains tight, this adds to the evidence that conditions are starting to loosen somewhat at the margins with hiring intentions also weakening at the beginning of Q422. Currently, we see the UK unemployment rate gradually move higher in the coming quarters, ending 2023 near to 5.0%.

This increase in the unemployment rate comes as inflation jumped to 11.1% y-o- in October up from 10.1% in September, above consensus expectations of 10.7% and our own forecast of 10.8%. The pick-up in price pressures in the month largely reflected the impact from a reset in energy prices, though the government's rollout of the Energy Price Guarantee limited the extent of the increase. Core inflation held steady at 6.5% in October, in line with our expectations. We expect headline inflation to average 7.0% next year, ending 2023 near 4.0%.

Netherlands: Real GDP growth of the Dutch economy shrank by 0.2% on the quarter in Q322. This marks a y-o-y growth rate of 3.1%, which follows a 5.1% expansion in Q222. Alongside consensus, we had expected Dutch GDP growth to remain in positive territory and we have revised down our 2022 GDP forecast from 4.7% growth to 4.5% in response to the Q322 reading. The main drags on growth were declining fixed capital formation and government consumption. Moving forward, we expect the Dutch economy to move into a technical recession in Q422 as household consumption and fixed investment continue to decline.

Russia: Russia's GDP decreased by 4% y-o-y in the third quarter of 2022. This is smaller than the contraction that both we and consensus expected and comes as hydrocarbon exports remained stronger than expected, boosted by accelerating LNG exports to Europe. However, moving forward we forecast further downward pressure on GDP growth as global sanction continue to bite. We expect GDP to shrink by 3.5% over the full year, but we highlight that risks fall to the upside given the possibility of more consistent hydrocarbon exports than expected.

Norway: Norwegian GDP growth data came in at 2.5% y-o-y in September. This marks a 0.5% expansion on a month-on-month (m-o-m) basis and surprised to the upside of our expectations for a decline of 0.5% m-o-m. This strength in growth, however, is unlikely to be sustained in the coming quarters given the drag from the Norges Bank's policy tightening, persistent cost of living pressures and a weaker external demand backdrop. Indeed, we now anticipate that growth will slow to around 1.0% in 2023, compared to our previous forecast for a 1.7% expansion.

What We Are Watching in the Week Ahead...

Eurozone

(November 23) November PMIs: This week's flash PMI data are expected to show that eurozone economic momentum lost further momentum in November. The composite index is seen dropping deeper into contraction territory (i.e. below the 50.0 threshold) from 47.3 to 47.0, driven by falls in both the manufacturing (46.4 to 46.0) and services (48.6 to 48.0) subcomponents. With limited hard data yet available, weakness in survey indicators underpin our view that the eurozone will enter recession from Q422, contracting by 0.2% q-o-q. Risks to this already above consensus forecast are tilted somewhat to the upside, given the unusually warm start to the winter months that has seen natural gas prices plunge. However, we remain downbeat about the prospects for the eurozone in 2023 with a combination of persistent of living issues, tight financial conditions and weak external demand set to see the economy experience a prolonged recession.

Germany

(November 24) November Ifo Business Climate Index: The ifo Institute is set to release the November figure for the Ifo Business Climate Index, with the Bloomberg consensus being for a rise from its 30-month low of 84.3 in October to 85.0. The index has fallen sharply from the reading of 98.8 in February prior to the beginning of the war in Ukraine, as concerns regarding energy prices and external demand have increasingly weighed on sentiment. With inflation at 11.6% y-o-y in October and a cost of living crisis-induced recession likely to come, we expect the index score to remain low in November.

Poland

(November 25) October Unemployment Rate: Poland's unemployment rate is expected to remain close to all-time lows at 5.1% in incoming November data, having fallen from 5.9% at the start of the year. Poland's labour market tightness, exacerbated by the arrival of Ukrainian refugees (many of whom have found work in Poland), is a significant factor driving inflation in the country. We see little scope for conditions to loosen significantly even as the country enters a technical recession, however it is likely that unemployment will tick up somewhat in 2023.

Fitch Solutions Inc.

文件 EMDN000020221127eibl0000n


Emerging Markets Monitor
Economic Analysis - Week Ahead: Unconventional Monetary Policy To Continue In Europe's East
1600 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日
Corporate Financing Week
CFWK
英文
© 2022 Fitch Solutions, Inc
This week, we at Fitch Solutions will be paying close attention to monetary policy meetings at the Hungarian National Bank (MNB, November 22) and the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkiye (CBRT, November 24). The pair have been conducting monetary policy in an unorthodox manner, albeit in different ways.

We expect the MNB to hold their benchmark policy rate at 13.00% on Tuesday. This view is in line with consensus and any departure would be a big surprise given the bank has announced the official end of their policy tightening cycle. What will be more interesting is the press release and minutes following the meeting. Since October 14, monetary conditions have been determined in Hungary by the one-day quick deposit tender, which is the de facto main policy rate and can be adjusted daily by the Bank. We hope that the press release will reveal more details about the instrument, presently set at 18.00%, namely how long will the instrument (which the MNB note as 'targeted and temporary') be in use. Under the current setup, the phasing out of the instrument and reinstatement of one-week tenders (which were phased out in October as the quick deposit tool was introduced) at 13.00% would mean an effective 500 basis points (bps) cut. It is unclear whether the MNB would unwind these 500bps in one go or with gradual cuts (we believe likely the latter to avoid a crash in the Hungarian forint). Regardless, a dovish pivot from the MNB will be tempting against a backdrop of weakening economic activity ( real GDP contracted 0.4% q-o-q in Q322) although soaring inflation of 21.1% y-o-y (October print) complicates matters.

Convoluted Monetary Policy In Hungary

Hungary - Interest And Interbank Rates, %

Source: Macrobond, Fitch Solutions

We anticipate a 150bps rate cut to 9.00% on Thursday from the CBRT. The CBRT is in the midst of an interest rate cutting cycle, in spite of inflation hitting fresh highs of 85.5% y-o-y in the October print. This stance from the Central Bank broadly falls in line with the viewpoint held by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. A cut to 9.00% would leave the rate in line with Erdogan's expectations of a single digit rate by year end (per September 29 comments). We expect the Bank to go slightly further, with a 100bps cut to 8.00% coming in the December meeting. However, we expect the post election (June 2023) period to return a degree of orthodoxy to the CBRT, with the bank hiking their main policy rate to 24.00% shortly after. In the meantime, we anticipate continued loose policy, with interest rates remaining heavily negative (see chart below), although the CBRT will likely continue introducing macroprudential policies to encourage lira bank deposit holdings (over the current high proportion of FX deposits).

 Real Interest Rates Very Negative In Turkiye
 Turkiye - Main Policy Rate vs Consumer Price Inflation

<TD>Source: Macrobond, Fitch Solutions

Previous Week's Highlights...

Central and Eastern Europe: GDP figures for Hungary, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, and Slovenia were released on November 15. We expected softer growth in much of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) as rising inflation posed greater headwinds to demand, while an unfavourable external backdrop further hampered activity. Broadly in line with our expectations, third quarter growth in Hungary contracted by 0.4% quarter-on-quarter (q-o-q), which left the year-on-year figure at 4.0% in Q322, down from 6.5% in Q222. Polish GDP expanded 0.9% q-o-q (3.5% y-o-y), while Romania saw growth of 1.3% (4.6%). Bulgarian GDP expanded by 0.6% in Q322, while seeing y-o-y growth decelerate to 3.2% compared to 4.6% in the previous quarter. Slovakian GDP grew by 0.3% q-o-q for the fourth consecutive quarter, while its y-o-y growth decelerated from 1.3% in Q222 to 1.2% in Q322. Slovenian growth came in at its lowest level since Q121. GDP expanded 3.4% y-o-y in Q322 compared to 8.3% in the second quarter of 2022, recording a 1.4% q-o-q contraction versus our expectation of a 1.0% contraction.

United Kingdom: The UK's Office for National Statistics released its unemployment figures for Q322 on November 15. The unemployment rate in the increased very modestly by 0.1 percentage points, which was broadly in line with our expectations. While the labour market remains tight, this adds to the evidence that conditions are starting to loosen somewhat at the margins with hiring intentions also weakening at the beginning of Q422. Currently, we see the UK unemployment rate gradually move higher in the coming quarters, ending 2023 near to 5.0%.

This increase in the unemployment rate comes as inflation jumped to 11.1% y-o- in October up from 10.1% in September, above consensus expectations of 10.7% and our own forecast of 10.8%. The pick-up in price pressures in the month largely reflected the impact from a reset in energy prices, though the government's rollout of the Energy Price Guarantee limited the extent of the increase. Core inflation held steady at 6.5% in October, in line with our expectations. We expect headline inflation to average 7.0% next year, ending 2023 near 4.0%.

Netherlands: Real GDP growth of the Dutch economy shrank by 0.2% on the quarter in Q322. This marks a y-o-y growth rate of 3.1%, which follows a 5.1% expansion in Q222. Alongside consensus, we had expected Dutch GDP growth to remain in positive territory and we have revised down our 2022 GDP forecast from 4.7% growth to 4.5% in response to the Q322 reading. The main drags on growth were declining fixed capital formation and government consumption. Moving forward, we expect the Dutch economy to move into a technical recession in Q422 as household consumption and fixed investment continue to decline.

Russia: Russia's GDP decreased by 4% y-o-y in the third quarter of 2022. This is smaller than the contraction that both we and consensus expected and comes as hydrocarbon exports remained stronger than expected, boosted by accelerating LNG exports to Europe. However, moving forward we forecast further downward pressure on GDP growth as global sanction continue to bite. We expect GDP to shrink by 3.5% over the full year, but we highlight that risks fall to the upside given the possibility of more consistent hydrocarbon exports than expected.

Norway: Norwegian GDP growth data came in at 2.5% y-o-y in September. This marks a 0.5% expansion on a month-on-month (m-o-m) basis and surprised to the upside of our expectations for a decline of 0.5% m-o-m. This strength in growth, however, is unlikely to be sustained in the coming quarters given the drag from the Norges Bank's policy tightening, persistent cost of living pressures and a weaker external demand backdrop. Indeed, we now anticipate that growth will slow to around 1.0% in 2023, compared to our previous forecast for a 1.7% expansion.

What We Are Watching in the Week Ahead...

Eurozone

(November 23) November PMIs: This week's flash PMI data are expected to show that eurozone economic momentum lost further momentum in November. The composite index is seen dropping deeper into contraction territory (i.e. below the 50.0 threshold) from 47.3 to 47.0, driven by falls in both the manufacturing (46.4 to 46.0) and services (48.6 to 48.0) subcomponents. With limited hard data yet available, weakness in survey indicators underpin our view that the eurozone will enter recession from Q422, contracting by 0.2% q-o-q. Risks to this already above consensus forecast are tilted somewhat to the upside, given the unusually warm start to the winter months that has seen natural gas prices plunge. However, we remain downbeat about the prospects for the eurozone in 2023 with a combination of persistent of living issues, tight financial conditions and weak external demand set to see the economy experience a prolonged recession.

Germany

(November 24) November Ifo Business Climate Index: The ifo Institute is set to release the November figure for the Ifo Business Climate Index, with the Bloomberg consensus being for a rise from its 30-month low of 84.3 in October to 85.0. The index has fallen sharply from the reading of 98.8 in February prior to the beginning of the war in Ukraine, as concerns regarding energy prices and external demand have increasingly weighed on sentiment. With inflation at 11.6% y-o-y in October and a cost of living crisis-induced recession likely to come, we expect the index score to remain low in November.

Poland

(November 25) October Unemployment Rate: Poland's unemployment rate is expected to remain close to all-time lows at 5.1% in incoming November data, having fallen from 5.9% at the start of the year. Poland's labour market tightness, exacerbated by the arrival of Ukrainian refugees (many of whom have found work in Poland), is a significant factor driving inflation in the country. We see little scope for conditions to loosen significantly even as the country enters a technical recession, however it is likely that unemployment will tick up somewhat in 2023.

Fitch Solutions Inc.

文件 CFWK000020221127eibl0000w


Slovakia This Week - November 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 25 日, 7699 字, (英文)
Ukraine faces one of worst declines in GDP from a war, says EBRDUkraine may suffer one of the worst falls in GDP after a war, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) predicts in its 2022/23 Transition Report.

Slovakia This Week - December 2, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 2 日, 3265 字, (英文)
Growth of Slovak producer prices in October stabilises at 58% y/yThe fast growth of producer prices stabilised in October, the Statistical Office of the Slovak Republic (Office) reported. Industrial producer prices for the domestic market ...

Slovakia This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 15483 字, (英文)
Inflation forces real wages to drop in Slovakia in OctoberThe average nominal monthly wage in October grew year-on-year in all ten sectors of the economy and the real wages fell in all sectors for the first time, Statistical Office of the ...

Slovakia This Week - December 23, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 23 日, 5101 字, (英文)
THE MITTELEUROPEAN VIEW: Western banks go back to square one in CEEThe key messages of this year's Raiffeisen Research CEE Banking Sector Report at the industry level are as follows: Geopolitically, the leading CEE banks in Eastern Europe ...

CIA: Czech News Digest - Business
1445 字
2023 年 1 月 26 日
CIA - Daily News
CZPRDI
英文
© 2023, Ceska informacni agentura s.r.o. Specialist in briefing and Hotline News Services Tel: +420-2-6278651, Fax:+420-2-6278717, E-Mail: redakce@pointa.cz
(CIANEWS) - The Škoda Group will deliver 10 more trains to the Estonian carrier Eesti Liinirongid (Elron) under an option to supply electric units. The first unit from this order is already in production, which now totals 16 vehicles. Production is taking place at the production plant in Ostrava. The contract with Elron totals more than CZK 3.5bn. The delivery of the first six trains is scheduled for completion by the end of 2024. The units are built on the RegioPanter platform (trains in the Czech Republic and Slovakia), which was also used in the design of trains to neighbouring Latvia.

GARBE will build the first 10,000 m2 for Taconova in its industrial park in České Budějovice. This will include 9,240 m2 of industrial space and 1,240 m2 of office space. The transaction was brokered by CBRE. Taconova will use the hall for warehousing and light manufacturing. The construction envisages the introduction of sustainable solutions. A green facade is planned and the park will be equipped with heat pumps and solar panels. Another 9,500 m2 will be delivered to the market by GARBE on a speculative basis.

AMiT, a manufacturer of control systems for industrial automation and electronics for rolling stock and public transport, plans to spend tens of millions of crowns on foreign projects and the development of new technologies in the coming years. This is expected to help it triple the turnover of the AMiT automation division within five years, which reached CZK 88m in 2022. The entire company reported an economic result exceeding CZK 500m.

Raiffeisenbank will stop making outgoing payments to Russia and Belarus as of February 15, 2023. Until now, the bank has been monitoring the payments and assessing their compliance with the applicable sanction regulations. Due to the development of the situation in Ukraine and after further tightening measures, the company has decided to stop their implementation.

Wolt has established cooperation with Shoptet. The Wolt Drive add-on will enable online retailers to deliver goods to customers in tens of minutes. In the first week, dozens of businesses have downloaded the app, for which express shipping is a step towards improving the customer experience. The plan is to expand the service to the Hungarian and Slovakian markets, where both entities operate.

E-shops with clothes and sneakers Footshop and Queens closed the year 2022 with a turnover of more than CZK 1bn. Footshop received 455,000 orders and sold 261,000 pairs of sneakers. The e-shop was visited by 30 million users and exceeded 1.5 million fans on social networks. Stone stores in Prague, Bucharest and Budapest were visited by 615 thousand customers. In 2023, Footshop plans to increase its e-commerce turnover by at least 10%, Queens by 35%. Queens is looking for a brick-and-mortar location in Prague, while Footshop is interested in opening a brick-and-mortar store in Poland and Slovakia.

The Regional Court in Ostrava ruled on the bankruptcy of the engineering company GEARWORKS from the WITKOWITZ group on January 24, 2023. The petition was filed by the company itself. It stated that it was negatively affected by the shortage of materials and their price increase as a result of the pandemic situation and the suspension of projects to the Russian Federation and Ukraine. GEARWORKS has 201 creditors, among the largest of which is Shape Steel with a claim of CZK 1.39m and Cilso International with CZK 1.02m.

The National Motorway Company (NDS) has confirmed CzechToll's victory in the tender for the supply of an electronic toll collection system including technical support. In its bid, CzechToll committed to develop and deliver the IS for EUR 13.8mexcluding VAT within 13 months of signing the contract. CzechToll CEO Petr Chvátal added that the system will enable the Slovak Ministry of Transport and NDS to implement strategic changes in the area of freight transport charging.

Financial group Moneta has increased the share of electric vehicles in its corporate fleet to 46% by the end of 2022. It currently owns 130 pure electric cars. By the end of 2023, it will have acquired nearly 60 new electric vehicles. Zuzana Filipová, the group's sustainability and communications director, added that the bank wants to achieve carbon neutrality by 2025 not only by exclusively purchasing electric vehicles, but also by reducing its fleet from the current 216 to 200 vehicles.

TTC Controls, owner of the UniControls brand, has entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with A-Paul Software Systems of India. The company will exclusively supply UniControls' technology transfer products to the Indian market, particularly in the area of overhead control and rolling stock information systems (TCMS).

The US OFAC has extended Sberbank CZ's exemption from sanctions imposed on selected Russian banks until January 31, 2024. The authority granted the insolvency administrator's request based on the steps it took to sell Sberbank's loan portfolio. The extension of the waiver is one of the main conditions for the settlement of the purchase agreement with Česka spořitelna (CS), which was signed in December 2022. Once CS pays the agreed purchase price, the migration of Sberbank's clients will begin. In the coming weeks, Sberbank plans to offer for sale the corporate bonds and the rest of the loan portfolio that are not part of the purchase agreement.

Prima group will launch its own video service on February 8, 2023. Prima+ will offer thousands of film and series titles alongside TV previews, including exclusive series under the Prima+ ORIGINALS banner. The streaming service will be available in three subscription tariffs ranging from a premium version without ads to ad-free viewing.

Jiří Rusnok will be an advisor to the board of directors of Allianz insurance company from February 1, 2023. Stefan de Goeij is the ESG and Energy Lead of the CTP Group. Zbyněk Slivoň is the CEO of AGC Automotive Czech. According to the Commercial Register, Tomáš Vlček has become Managing Director of ELDIS Pardubice.

Czech investment company McWin, which specialises in the food services sector, has bought a majority stake in German chain L'Osteria. The transaction values the acquired company at around EUR 400m. The acquisition is subject to regulatory requirements and is expected to close in 1Q 2023. L'Osteria operates 157 Italian restaurants in eight European markets.

In the year and a half since its launch, ČEZ Group's Lighting for CZK 1 project has saved municipalities an average of 78% of electricity. The power engineers have replaced a total of 6034 luminaires in 38 municipalities, whose total consumption has been reduced from 2189 MWh to 481 MWh. Municipalities do not buy the luminaires, but rent them. ČEZ Energetické služby pays for the renewal costs from the savings generated by replacing the old system with a new one.

The Liberec and Jablonec nad Nisou Municipal Transport Company (DPMLJ) has received eight SOR NS 12 buses for the end of 2022. This is the last part of the delivery from SOR Libchavy out of a total of twenty buses purchased at a cost of CZK 103m. They will gradually replace the outdated buses. The framework contract for the purchase of new diesel low-floor double-axle, three-door buses was signed in February 2020. The buses are diesel-powered and include passenger count monitoring equipment.

The Statutory City of Hradec Králové informed about the issuance of a building permit for the project: new construction of residential buildings (BD). The buildings will have one underground and seven above-ground floors. BD entrance A will have a built-up area of 1116.7 m2 and will house a total of 52 residential units. BD entrance B and C with a built-up area of 1574.6 m2 will have 97 residential units. The applicant is TOMAS INVEST. The town of Břeclav publishes information about the commencement of the construction procedure for the project: roads and pavements. The Statutory City of Karviná publishes information on the lease of business premises. The Statutory City of Pardubice informs about the lease of a restaurant.

The Moravian-Silesian Region (MSK) has announced a tender for the reconstruction and modernisation of the II/442 road in the section VD Kružberk - Svatoňovice - Čermná in Silesia for CZK 68.77m. The town of Jaroměř is requesting the lease of speed measuring equipment for CZK 43m. Mendel University in Brno (MENDELU) is looking for a supplier of information technology in a tender work CZK 40m. The City of Písek has launched a tender for CZK 42.47m for the reconstruction of building no. 85 on Alšovo náměstí square.

Ceska Informacni Agentura SRO

文件 CZPRDI0020230126ej1q00001


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russia-Ukraine war: Ukraine's "secret weapon" to weaken Russian army
2907 字
2023 年 2 月 11 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
00.00 For Zelensky, Russian athletes at the Olympics is a "manifestation of violence "

The Ukrainian president, who called for a boycott of the Paris 2024 Olympics if Russian athletes are allowed to participate, says their presence would be a "manifestation of violence". IOC president Thomas Bach described Ukraine's calls for a boycott of the Olympics as contrary to his "principles. "

In a video address to a virtual meeting of sports ministers from about 30 countries in London, Zelensky said, "The mere presence of representatives of the terrorist state is a manifestation of violence and lawlessness. And it cannot be covered up with a so-called neutrality or a white flag. "

Ukraine's President Volodimir Zelensky.23.00 Russia's massive attack on Ukraine causes nuclear reactor shutdownThe

instability in Ukraine's power grid caused by Russia's massive attack - which took place on February 10 - led to the shutdown of one of the reactors at the Khmelnytskyi nuclear power plant, according to IAEA chief Rafael Grossi. The information was reported by the

Ukrainianmedia .

22.00 Slovakia to consider delivering MiG-29 aircraft to

UkraineSlovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger said that Volodimir Zelensky asked Slovakia for MiG-29 fighter jets, Slovak newspaper SME reported. Heger revealed that negotiations will start now and clarified that the fleet they have was dismantled and Slovakia does not plan to use them in the future.

Earlier, Slovak Defense Minister Jaroslav Nad insisted that the transfer of aircraft to Ukraine could not be decided by Slovakia alone, but required an agreement with NATO partners. The information was also replicated by

the Ukrainianmedia The Kyiv Independent.

30/05/2022 Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger POLITICS Europa Press/Contact/Nicolas Landemard13.50 Swiss government bans Spain from re-exporting cannons to UkraineSwitzerland

banned Spain from sending anti-aircraft guns manufactured in that country to Ukraine, in accordance with its doctrine of military neutrality

.The State Secretariat for Economic Affairs "denied Spain's request of January 16, 2023 on the re-export to Ukraine of two 35 mm anti-aircraft guns from Switzerland," a spokesman for that institution, Fabian Maienfisch, told AFP.

In recent months, Switzerland also rejected two requests from Germany and one from Denmark on the supply of war material to Kiev. When importing military equipment from Switzerland, the states sign a declaration of non-re-export with the Swiss Confederation.

13.20 Presence of Russian athletes at Olympic Games would be "a sign of violence and impunity "

UkrainianPresident Volodymyr Zelenski denounced on Friday the eventuality of a presence of Russian athletes at the Paris-2024 Olympic Games, which would be, in his words, a "sign of violence and impunity", even with a neutral flag

."As long as Russia kills and terrorizes, representatives of this terrorist state have no place in sports and Olympic competitions," Zelensky declared at a videoconference meeting with sports ministers of several countries.

12.02 Critical

situationRussian forces consolidated their positions in two localities in eastern Ukraine, advancing north of olut and also in the locality of Vugledar, a Russian occupation official announced on Friday.

Moscow's troops are trying to encircle the city from the north, south and east, aiming to seize the locality which has been in dispute for months and whose battle caused heavy losses on both sides and sowed destruction. "In fact, we cut off three of the four supply routes" of the

Ukrainianarmy in Bakhmut, Pushilin said.

Russian units also "consolidated their positions in the southern part of Vugledar" which he described as part of their "suburbs."Vugledar is another point concentrating fighting on the eastern front, where the Russians have increased pressure in recent weeks and managed to gain ground on the Ukrainian army.According to Pushilin, there are about 1,400 civilians in Vugledar and Moscow's forces "started evacuating some" to Volnovaja, an occupied territory near Donetsk.bur/bds/an/eg10

.21 An Argentine, in the middle of negotiationsThe

director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Argentine Rafael Grossi, and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Serguei Riabkov, discussed in Moscow the situation surrounding the Zaporiyia nuclear power plant, in the homonymous

Ukrainianprovince and under Russian control since March 2022, the Kremlin reported

."A substantial discussion was held on nuclear safety issues, focusing on the situation around the Zaporiyia nuclear power plant," the statement said. Other issues "of bilateral interest" were also addressed, adds the text quoted by the Russian news agency Sputnik.

Yesterday, Grossi met in Moscow with authorities of the Russian atomic agency Rosatom to move forward with the creation of a security zone at the nuclear power plant, the largest in Europe and the target of shelling on several occasions during the war that began last February 24. The Ukrainian nuclear power plant fell into the hands of Russian troops last March, almost at the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine. Since last July, Russia and Ukraine have accused each other of attacking the plant.

The IAEA warned on several occasions that this could provoke a serious atomic accident that would affect all of Europe.

Alexei Likhachev and Rafael Grossi 09.33 Attack thwartedUkraine

said it intercepted 61 of the 71 missiles fired by Russia against its territory and also shot down five Iranian-designed drones used by Moscow. On Friday, "the enemy fired 71 Kh-101, Kh-555 and Kalibr cruise missiles (...) The air defense forces destroyed 61 missiles," the air force said in a statement.

08.47 Back and

forthNATO member

Romania

denied that two Russian cruise missiles overflew its airspace before entering Ukraine, in response to statements by the

Ukrainianarmy chief. "The air surveillance system detected a projectile launched from a Russian ship located in the Black Sea" in the direction of Ukraine, the Defense Ministry said in a statement.

"But at no time did it enter Romanian airspace," it added08

.05 Putin

reappearsRussian President Vladimir Putin will deliver a speech on February 21 on the military operation in Ukraine and his country's economy, three days before the first anniversary of the Russian offensive in Ukraine, the Kremlin said Friday

.Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov told the media, "On February 21, the President of the Russian Federation will address the Federal Assembly (which brings together the two houses of Parliament)," and specified that the speech will address "the current situation."

Vladimir Putin 07.14 Russian weapons in NATO

airspaceANDKalibr rockets fired in a massive bombardment of multiple

Ukrainiancities crossed Romania before reaching their targets, the first incursion of Russian weapons into allied territory.

According to the

UkrainianArmed Forces, two Russian rockets crossed the airspace of Moldova and Romania, the latter a NATO member, this morning. The Kalibr projectiles were apparently fired from the Russian Black Sea fleet and were headed for the western provinces of Ukraine.

The government of Moldova, which is neither an EU nor a NATO partner, confirmed that it detected the Kalibrs in its country and contacted the Russian ambassador, according to El Pais.

06.31 New massive attackRussia

launched a "massive attack" with missiles and explosive drones, which hit several energy facilities in Ukraine, the Army claimed a day after President Volodimir Zelensky called in Brussels for more weapons from its European allies.

According to the Ukrainian Air Force, Russia fired "six Kalibr cruise missiles", "up to 35 S-300 anti-aircraft guided missiles in the regions of Kharkov and Zaporiyia", and used "seven Iranian-made Shahed drones". "Five Kalibr cruise missiles and five Shahed drones were destroyed" by the anti-aircraft defense, the same source said. According to the statement, "the enemy targeted Ukrainian cities and basic infrastructure."

At the momentthe authorities reported no casualties.

Moscow regularly attacks

Ukrainianenergy facilities, leaving millions of inhabitants without light and heating in the middle of winter. "In one hour 17 attacks were recorded in the city, the highest number since the beginning of the Russian invasion," Anatoly Kurtev, secretary of the Zaporiyia city council, said in Telegram and urged the civilian population: "We must resist!"

04.01 Moscow does not believe Ukraine's promiseRussia

on Friday crossed Ukraine's assertion that it will not use long-range missiles to attack Russian territory. A Russian Foreign Ministry official said the statement is not credible, state-run RIA news agency reported.

Volodimir Zelensky and Vladimir PutinUkrainianDefense Minister Oleksii Reznikov had said days earlier that Kiev would only use weapons that the United States could provide to attack Russian forces on

Ukrainianterritory. His clarification took place amid the Zelensky government's renewed call for more weapons.

Alexei Polishyuk, the ministry's department head, questioned that claim. "There can be no confidence in such statements because the

Ukrainianauthorities have time and again demonstrated their lack of confidence and inability to reach agreements. "

03.48 Iran reportedly modifying drones received by RussiaAccording to

a report, Iran appears to be modifying the attack drones that it is reportedly providing to Russia. The country reportedly moved forward with modifications so that the explosive warheads can inflict maximum damage to infrastructure targets inside Ukraine.

This is according to a paper put together by the UK-based research organization Conflict Armament Research (CAR) in conjunction with the

Ukrainianmilitary, which was revealed by CNN. The study was based on an unexploded warhead from an Iranian Shahed-131 drone found in the Odessa region of southern Ukraine in October 2022.

In this photo released by the Ukrainian armed forces' Directorate of Strategic Communications, the wreckage of what Kiev has described as an Iranian Shahed drone shot down near Kupiansk, Ukraine, is seen. CAR analysts presume that the warheads were hastily modified with ill-fitting layers of dozens of small metal fragments that on impact scatter over a large radius. In addition to the fragments, there are also 18 smaller "charges" around the circumference of the warhead that, when melted by the blast, can pierce the armor and create a sort of "360-degree" explosive effect.

According to CNN, the accumulation of these elements essentially maximizes the warhead's ability to destroy targets such as power plants, distribution grids, transmission lines and large high-power transformers

. Theyalso make repair efforts substantially more difficult.

03.29 Republicans called to cut off assistance to UkraineMatt

Gaetz, a Republican representative for the state of Florida, introduced a bill to cease U.S. military and financial assistance to Ukraine. The initiative has the backing of 10 other Republican lawmakers, several identified with former President Donald Trump, Business Insider reported

.FILE - From left, Colorado Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert; Florida Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz; and Georgia Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene. The lawmakers argued that backing Kiev's defense against Russia's invasion contributes "inadvertently to civilian casualties. "

While the group represents a minority view both within the Republican Party and within Congress, its members could jeopardize future aid packages in the House, the U.S. publication said. Indeed, any opposing lawmaker can force a vote to oust Chairman Kevin McCarthy.

02.45 Hungary's Prime Minister met with

ZelenskyHungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban, a historic Putin ally, met with Volodimir Zelensky at the summit in Brussels on Thursday. The leader, who has come to raise objections to Western aid to Kiev, greeted the

Ukrainianleader and even posted a photo of the meeting.

The ruler highlighted the summit in which Zelensky participated. "Hungary will continue to provide humanitarian and financial support to Ukraine," he wrote on Twitter. "We support an immediate ceasefire to prevent further loss of life.Hungary belongs to the peace camp!" he added.

02.15 Japan estimated that Russia lost a "high" number of Russian generalsAccording to

Japanese intelligence, 20 of Vladimir Putin's generals have died in the war. This comes from a work carried out jointly with the United States and Europe, published by the Nikkei agency, and quoted by the

Ukrainianmedia Ukrainska Pravda.

Retired general Kiyofumi Iwata, former chief of staff of Japan's Ground Self-Defense Force, described the count as "incredibly high", while speaking to Nikkei Asia , especially in comparison to the U.S. highly.

Japanese intelligence mentioned that shortcomings in the Russian army explain the number of fallen generals. According to Iwata, the number of fallen generals can be explained by Ukraine's superiority in cyber warfare, which allows it to find out the location of Russian military leaders, as well as by Russian tactics. of sending generals to the front.

In turn, a senior Japanese intelligence official noted another possible reason: "There may be informants in the two eastern regions [Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts - ed.] giving information to Ukraine. "

Meanwhile, the Japanese media outlet highlighted another point that has become apparent over the past year: the "inferiority" of Russian military assets.

01.20 Controversial compensation to wives of fallen soldiersA

video that went viral on social networks shows a group of women holding fur coats in the town of Makiivka, in the Russian-occupied Donetsk region

of Ukraine.It is compensation sent by Russia after the loss of their husbands.

The situation, however, generated controversy. According to Newsweek, the garments were removed after footage was filmed of them expressing gratitude to their partners and the government.

"Thank you so much from the bottom of our hearts...for taking care of us," one woman is seen to say before the group then added "thank you" in unison.

According to reports, the man who filmed them was Yevgeny Skripnik, an associate of Igor Girkin, a prominent pro-Kremlin military blogger. "At such moments you feel like we are a family," Skripnik publicly stated after the women's message.

Thecoats were reportedly courtesy of the Furs of Yugra company and Girkin's wife, Miroslava Reginskaya.

TheFeminist Resistance Movement Against War, a Russian group opposing the invasion of Ukraine, allegedly claimed that the garments were taken away after the invasion. First, they were told that they were of poor quality. Later, they claimed that it was a mistake and that "they were intended for other people. "

00.51 Seven Russian cybercrime gangs sanctionedThe

United States and the United Kingdom jointly sanctioned seven people working with Trickbot, a Russian-based cybercrime and ransomware gang with links to Russian intelligence services

.The sanctioned individuals used Trickbot, a Trojan virus, to steal financial data by infecting millions of computers around the world, including those of U.S. companies, CNBC reported.News.

Archive - The U.S. Treasury Department building in Washington, May 4, 2021. Trickbot recently became a malware package that gave the Trickbot group the ability to attack hospitals and healthcare facilities during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic. Three Minnesota medical facilities were among those attacked.

The U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.K. Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office; National Crime Agency; and HM Treasury teamed up to sanction Vitaly Kovalev, a senior member of the Trickbot Group, and six others.

"Russia is a haven for cybercriminals, where groups like Trickbot freely perpetrate malicious cyber activity against the U

.S,the United Kingdom and its allies and partners," the Treasury Department said.

00.29 New sanctions against MoscowThe

head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, announced Thursday new European sanctions against Russia that will include new export bans worth more than 10 billion euros ($10.7 billion), France 24 reported.

The measures, she explained, will also reach Russian President Vladimir Putin's propagandists. The measures, he said, will also affect political and military leaders close to President Putin.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel at the press conference after the EU-Ukraine summit in Kyiv, Ukraine, Friday, Feb. 3, 2023 "We will target Putin's propagandists because their lies are poisoning the public space in Russia and abroad," von der Leyen said during the joint press conference with

Ukrainian President Zelensky and European Council President Charles Michel

.The new sanctions "will further starve Russia's military machine and shake the foundations of its economy," he added.

00.02 Ukraine prepares a secret weapon against RussiaA

group of

Ukrainianmilitary personnel arrived in Belgium as part of a European Union training mission. The soldiers will learn to operate underwater drones, the transfer of which Belgium announced in November.

The Ukrainians will be trained in the operation of aquatic drones. Belgian Defense Minister Ludivine Dedonder posted the news on Twitter. "Today we welcome Ukrainian soldiers in Belgium as part of the EUMAM mission. They will receive training on the submarine systems delivered by Belgium to Ukraine. I have expressed my deep support for them and saluted the courage shown for almost a year," he wrote.

According to The Kyiv Independent, these underwater systems, capable of finding various threats such as mines and spy equipment, have already been delivered to Ukraine.

Belgium's provision consists of ten underwater drones produced by ECA Robotics Belgium, which are in addition to their respective mobile laboratory units.

The European Union Military Assistance Mission to Ukraine (EUMAM Ukraine) was launched on October 17. The mission aims to train up to 30,000

Ukrainianmilitary personnel on EU soil with the participation of 24 member states.

As Ukrinform agency published, the Belgian government decided in January to allocate the largest military aid package to Ukraine worth 92 million euros. In particular, it will include air defense missiles, anti-tank missiles, machine guns, grenades, ammunition, trucks and armored SUVs.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230212ej2b001ff


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Slovakia This Week - February 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 24 日, 7052 字, (英文)
ING: Green sovereign bond sales stabilise and so does the greenium.The euro sovereign and supranational, sub-sovereign and agency (SSA) green bond market is maturing after a turbulent 2022. Supply levels have stabilised and there are signs ...

Slovakia This Week - March 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 3 日, 13602 字, (英文)
Industrial producer prices in Slovakia up 33.6% y/y in JanuarySlovak industrial prices for the domestic market were higher by 33.6% year-on-year in January and rose by 8.6% month-on-month, the Statistical Office of the Slovak Republic ...

'This is inhumane': Poland, Slovakia ready to send fighter jets to Kyiv; Russian missiles engulf Ukraine: Updates
John Bacon and Kim Hjelmgaard
1320 字
2023 年 3 月 9 日 11:59 GMT
USA Today Online
USATONL
英文
© Copyright Gannett 2023 All Rights Reserved.
Slovakia on Thursday joined Poland in urging their allies to provide fighter jets to Kyiv as a wave of deadly "retaliation" strikes rocked Ukraine.

"I think it's time to make a decision," Slovak Defense Minister Jaroslav Nad said on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/JaroNadPublic/]. "People in Ukraine are dying, we can really help them. ... This is inhumane and irresponsible."

A day earlier, Polish President Andrzej Duda told CNN[https://www.cnn.com/videos/tv/2023/03/09/duda-poland-ctw-uae-visit.cnn] that Poland was ready to provide Ukraine with the MiG-29 fighters as part of a package involving other Western allies.

"The training of Ukrainian pilots is important and much needed,” Duda said, adding that long-range artillery also is needed "to push the enemy back and avoid direct clashes. Because the Russians are trying to crush Ukraine, crush it with the weight of their armed forces, their size and their equipment."

The Biden administration, and NATO, thus far have declined Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's requests for aircraft.

LAWMAKER DECLINES INVITE TO KYIV: House Speaker Kevin McCarthy declines President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's invite to visit Ukraine[https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2023/03/08/ukraine-zelensky-kevin-mccarthy-invite/11427700002/]

Click to view image.[https://www.gannett-cdn.com/presto/2023/03/09/USAT/f0e069b8-5320-4d81-9a26-6c7dc3014092-AP23068113853824.jpg]

Developments:

►The Biden administration unveiled it's 2024 budget proposal, which calls for almost $7 billion in additional spending for Ukraine and other allies to combat "Russian aggression." The U.S. has spent more than $75 billion on Ukraine since the war began a year ago.

►An air raid warning sounded Thursday on Moscow radio stations and TV channels but was a false alarm, a result of server hacking, state-run Tass reported.

►52% of Ukrainians don't want any Russian taught in schools, up from 8% in a 2019 survey, according to a new poll by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology[https://kiis.com.ua/?lang=ukr&cat=reports&id=1202&page=1&fbclid=IwAR3Vmpyy4tc4iZc-VpC_e2bQeQ_ihODJuPhQRqm508yfMaFLMfEizfzAoK0]. Despite the war, 42% of the population still favors some Russian being taught – although only 6% want it taught more than other foreign languages.

►A group of 42 retired Canadian Olympians are urging their country’s Olympic leaders to take a stand against Russians participating in next year’s Paris Games.

ANATOMY OF AN INVASION: Mapping and tracking Russia's invasion of Ukraine[https://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/graphics/2022/02/24/ukraine-invasion-russia-attack-map-guide/6925181001/]

Russian 'retaliation' drones, missiles engulf Ukraine

A wave of Russian "retaliation" missiles and drones swept across Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities[https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2023/03/08/ukraine-zelensky-kevin-mccarthy-invite/11427700002/] Thursday, killing at least six people and knocking out power to hundreds of thousands in one of the biggest attacks on the besieged country this year.

At least seven people were injured, authorities in the regions of Kyiv, Lyiv and Dnipropetrovsk said on their Telegram channels. Sites in Kharkiv, Mykolaiv, Odesa, Zhytomyr and Kirovohrad also were struck. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy described "a difficult night" as the barrage struck crucial infrastructure facilities.

The Russian Defense Ministry said the strikes were in retaliation for a March 2 incursion into the Bryansk region of western Russia by what Moscow claimed were Ukrainian saboteurs. A ministry summary said its strikes hit "key elements of Ukraine's military infrastructure, enterprises of the military-industrial complex, as well as energy facilities that provide them."

Russia launched 81 missiles and eight exploding, Iranian-built Shahed drones, Ukraine military officials said. Thirty-four cruise missiles and four drones were intercepted, they said.

Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1633749096946081793] : “No military objective, just Russian barbarism. The day will come when Putin and his associates are held accountable."

At the end of January, 11 people were killed when Russia's military unleashed missile attacks across Ukraine the day after the U.S. and Germany said they would provide Ukraine's military with modern tanks.

Dig deeper: Biden, in annual budget, asks Congress for more aid to Ukraine as Russia pushes ahead with war[https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2023/03/09/biden-budget-ukraine-aid-2024-russia-war/11420879002/]

$58 billion in Russian assets frozen by global task force

A multinational task force aimed at implementing the sanctions imposed against numerous Russian businesses and individuals has blocked or frozen more than $58 billion worth of assets, tracked sanctioned assets across the globe, and heavily restricted the sanction targets from the international financial system, the U.S. Treasury Department announced Thursday. The group also has collectively worked to investigate and counter Russian sanctions evasion, including attempts to hide assets, cryptocurrency and money laundering schemes, Russian defense procurement, the department said in a statement.

The Russian Elites, Proxies, and Oligarchs Task Force includes the Eureopean Union, and Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States.

Ukraine official dismisses NATO warning that Bakhmut could soon fall

A high-ranking Ukrainian military official on Thursday dismissed warnings from NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg that the hotly contested city of Bakhmut could soon fall to the Russians. Col. Serhiy Cherevaty, spokesman for Ukraine's Eastern Group of Forces, said NATO does not fully understand that Ukrainians have developed "much greater stability and power of tactical solutions" as the war has dragged on, he said.

"They approach this purely pragmatically with dry calculations," Cherevaty said. "I think that NATO is studying this, and they need to study it all further. I think that such statements should be treated with respect, but with the understanding that they do not fully understand the whole situation."

US judge approves seizure of $25M Boeing 737

A federal court in New York has authorized the seizure of a $25 million Boeing 737 owned by a Russian energy company, citing U.S. sanctions against Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine. The aircraft is owned by PJSC Rosneft Oil Co., headquartered in Moscow and led by sanctioned oligarch Igor Ivanovich Sechin.

The plane was last in the United States in March 2014, and is now believed to be in, or traveling to or from, Russia, Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Breon Peace said in a news release. It was not immediately clear when or how the jet could be seized.

“Today’s enforcement action demonstrates there is a price to pay for Russian companies and oligarchs that flagrantly evade sanctions that the United States has imposed in response to the unjustified war against the people of the Ukraine,” Peace said, adding that his office will "relentlessly pursue the proceeds of unlawful conduct, be it on land, in the air, or at sea.”

Power lost, then returned to Europe's largest nuclear power plant

Europe's largest nuclear power plant lost all of its "off-site" power on Thursday after the latest Russian missile and drone strikes across Ukraine, according to the head of an international team monitoring the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. Rafael Grossi, director general of the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog the International Atomic Energy Agency, said all 20 of the site’s emergency diesel generators were activated as a result of the attacks. This is the first time the site, in southeastern Ukraine, has lost all power since November last year.

"This is the sixth time – let me say it again SIXTH time - that ZNPP has lost all off-site power and has had to operate in this emergency mode. Let me remind you – this is the largest nuclear power station in Europe," Grossi said in a statement. "What are we doing? How can we sit here in this room this morning and allow this to happen? This cannot go on."

Electricity transmission system operator Ukrenergo later announced it had restored power to the plant. Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, each side has accused the other of shelling the Zaporizhzhia plant.

Click to view image.[https://www.gannett-cdn.com/presto/2023/03/09/USAT/7aa72553-d0e3-4ea7-9f4f-d382e402e907-AFP_AFP_33AU4NV.jpg]

Contributing: The Associated Press

This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 'This is inhumane': Poland, Slovakia ready to send fighter jets to Kyiv; Russian missiles engulf Ukraine: Updates[https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2023/03/09/ukraine-russia-war-live-updates/11433880002/]

People search the rubble of a house following a Russian strike in the village of Velyka Vilshanytsia, near Lviv, on March 9, 2023. (YURIY DYACHYSHYN, AFP via Getty Images)[https://www.gannett-cdn.com/presto/2023/03/09/USAT/7aa72553-d0e3-4ea7-9f4f-d382e402e907-AFP_AFP_33AU4NV.jpg]

Three rockets launched against Ukraine from Russia's Belgorod region are seen at dawn in Kharkiv, Ukraine, Thursday, March 9, 2023. (Vadim Belikov, AP)[https://www.gannett-cdn.com/presto/2023/03/09/USAT/f0e069b8-5320-4d81-9a26-6c7dc3014092-AP23068113853824.jpg]

Gannett Co., Inc.

文件 USATONL020230309ej39000ru


CE Noticias Financieras English
Why have Hungary, Slovakia and Poland closed their borders to Ukrainian grain?
1227 字
2023 年 4 月 18 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Ukraine is known as the breadbasket of Europe. Before the Russian invasion, it produced enough grain to feed nearly 500 million people each year. The war closed ports and borders, threatening harvests, the country's economy and causing famine in Africa. The EU, together with the United Nations, managed to establish "solidarity corridors" to take grain out of the country, eliminating controls, inspections and tariffs. And preparing an unprecedented logistical campaign to take the product to continental ports. The problem is that the cereal has "flooded" its neighbors, in many cases it stays and does not go to Egypt or Pakistan, as it should, driving down prices and mobilizing farmers in the East. Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria or Romania have announced restrictive measures and even a total ban on the entry of cereals. Brussels protests, but the conflict, in an election year for several of them, is deep.

What has happened to Ukrainian cereals?Poland, Hungary and Slovakia have decided in recent days to close their borders to Ukrainian grain. The eastern neighbors argue that there are health reasons, public concern and oversupply, which endangers not only the health but also the jobs of their citizens. The reality is that there are elections in Poland and Slovakia this year, and the rural vote is critical. Bulgaria has an interim government and political pressure in Romania is at an all-time high, with the Minister of Agriculture on the verge of losing his post. Farm workers are very mobilized and are demanding that the arrival of Ukrainian cereals, which in theory should be on their way to destinations such as Pakistan, India or Egypt, be cut off, but which in many cases have ended up staying in Europe, driving down the prices of local produce.

Is this a legal, political or sanitary problem?All three, it seems. The European Commission has reacted this week by denouncing the decision of these governments, recalling that all competences in trade matters are transferred to Brussels and warning, without microphones, that this route is unacceptable, unsupportive and could end up in court. If there are doubts in phytosanitary matters, they must be informed and act, but all at the same time. Last week, a meeting was scheduled between the Polish minister and his Ukrainian colleague, but after being postponed, the EU country announced the closure. Hungary, in perpetual tension with Kiev, immediately signed up. Warsaw is the one that is most between a rock and a hard place, the one that has taken the decision and dragged the others along with it."Trade policy is the exclusive competence of the European Union and decisions are taken at the European level. Unilateral actions are not acceptable. In such complicated times, it is crucial to coordinate and align all decisions within the EU," warned Trade spokeswoman Miriam Garcia Ferrer of Spain. The Commission has asked all countries involved for formal and full explanations of their measures and the consequences.

What can the EU do?For the moment, raise its voice and ask for explanations. But without seeking shock, because the last year has been particularly complicated for the bordering countries. "Poland and other neighbors have done everything in their power. It is not a matter of sanctioning, but of finding solutions on the basis of European legislation, in the interests of Ukrainians and Europeans," the Commission's chief spokesman said on Monday, showing understanding. Trade competences are transferred to the European Commission, but simply on the grounds of sanitary issues, controls and temporary blockades would be authorized. But as the problem is political and the elections are at the end of the year, it is difficult to find a fast track. Farmers in the East want compensation and that the grain does not stay in their territory. Brussels can provide money, but helping Ukraine is one of the priorities. There is unease among the diplomatic delegations. Hungary is always looking for any excuse not to sanction Russia or to annoy Kiev, but Poland is the great Ukrainian supporter and the one that has criticized its partners the most for not supporting the sanctions, for stopping the shipment of weapons or military material. Now, the same people who were constantly reprimanded are wondering where is the solidarity and point to the hypocrisy of the East, ready to act when the issues are in line with their priorities, but slipping away when it is time to suffer, like the rest.

Is it a serious problem for Ukraine or for the EU?It is a serious economic and logistical problem for Kiev, which is completely dependent on the EU and the United States for its military and commercial survival. It is a problem for Spain, the Netherlands and the other partners who want and need Ukraine's grain, the continental breadbasket. And it is a problem of image and coordination for the whole EU, which together with the United Nations, entrusted the subsistence of the Ukrainian countryside to this logistic macro-operation. When Russia closed the ports, the way to get food by land to EU ports was the only option to maintain the supply. But in addition, Moscow has only agreed to cooperate with its enemies on the grain issue, agreeing to allow exports.

What is the most likely scenario?President Zelenski has mastered the art of public persuasion, but he cannot tighten the noose. Poland or Slovakia are two of his most loyal supporters, militarily, economically and politically, and their concerns are legitimate. Grain has saturated their markets, driven down prices, irritated a key lobby in the run-up to the polls and created logistical problems and bottlenecks, which in turn affect other exports. Russia, always happy to take advantage of divisions, is putting pressure by interrupting ship inspections, effectively shutting down authorized corridors. Brussels is preparing new aid packages worth tens of millions of euros. And it has to take a decision on tariffs. Ukraine is not part of the Union, and therefore its products should pay certain border tolls. It was exempted for one year, but the deadline ends in June and it is not clear that it will be able to extend it for another 12 months, as was the initial intention, if there is not much more consensus. If the Commission were to take those who have imposed unilateral measures to the European Court of Justice it would surely win, but that is a process of years, not months.

Is this a sign of possible accession?This clash, the most serious since the Russian invasion, is more than a conjunctural issue. EU support has been almost unconditional in all aspects. Millions of refugees have entered, tens of billions of euros have been moved, military equipment of all kinds has been sent, and the process for the opening of the fastest accession negotiations in history has also been activated. But this trade friction shows precisely the seams. If Ukraine were to join the EU, its role as a continental breadbasket would reach another dimension. Brussels is tailoring a suit, allowing no tariffs, with lax sanitary controls, pushing in case of doubt. But there are limits and even the most enthusiastic in the East are saying that they have been exceeded and that alternative solutions are needed.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230418ej4i00aa4


Foreign Policy
Heger: Europe Previously Sold Its Values for Russian Oil and Gas
292 字
2023 年 4 月 20 日 07:34 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2023
Vienna, April 20 (TASR) - Europe sold its values for cheap Russian gas and oil in recent years, but democracy, freedom, human rights and the rule of law mustn't be sold for convenience - as Ukraine has shown Europe after it was attacked by Russia, interim Prime Minister Eduard Heger said in a lecture on Slovakia's vision for Europe at the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna on Wednesday evening.

According to Heger, the vision that European countries had in recent years has changed as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The focus has shifted from economic growth as the main objective to security.

Heger warned that in the event of a military victory in Ukraine, Russia would be Slovakia's neighbour and at the same time the security structure of Europe would fundamentally change. After the Russian invasion, NATO membership proved to be the only protection for Slovakia, the prime minister stressed, praising the Allies for sending troops and air defence systems to the country.

As for Slovakia's vision for Europe, Heger highlighted good neighbourly relations and unity in the European Union. The premier noted that the Union has already adopted ten sanction packages against Russia. In addition to sanctions, the EU is also helping Ukraine militarily and in humanitarian terms, he remarked.

Regarding EU enlargement, Heger warned that if the bloc does not have good relations with neighbouring countries, "someone else will". That is why, according to him, it is necessary to talk openly about enlargement with the Western Balkan countries. "It's not just a matter of growth and investment, it's also a matter of security," he added.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020230420ej4k0008d


Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - May 12, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 5 月 12 日, 8203 字, (英文)
Lithuania’s state energy group Ignitis eclipses Orlen Lithuania in paid taxesIgnitis, Lithuania's state-owned electricity and gas supplier, paid the highest amount of taxes into the Lithuanian budget in the first quarter of this year, ...

Slovak Exporters Have at Their Disposal a Complete List of War-related Sanctions
182 字
2023 年 5 月 12 日 10:02 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2023 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, May 12 (SITA) - Slovak exporters have at their disposal a complete list of sanctions triggered by the armed conflict in Ukraine. The Council of Slovak Exporters has updated the “Navigating International Business in the Current Climate of Sanctions” document. It covers the latest EU sanction packages, including the tenth, the most recent sanctions slapped on Russia and Belarus by the United States and the UK, as well as Russia’s retaliatory sanctions and measures. The paper is available in Slovak and English at www.exporteri.sk[http://www.exporteri.sk].

“The objective of the publication is to provide a complex and complete overview of sanction regimes so that the Slovak exporter is able to find their way in which business activities are banned and which are not. As only restrictive measures at the level of the European Union are communicated publicly, these represent just a part of the entire portfolio of valid sanctions and, thus, provide an incomplete picture to the public,” chair of the Council of Slovak Exporters Lukas Parizek explained.

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020230512ej5c00003


Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - May 19, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 5 月 19 日, 8427 字, (英文)
MOL complains of "exceptionally high" transport prices charged by JanafPrices in the oil transport and strorage agreement with Croatian pipeline operator Janaf, signed after more than one year of negotiations, were "exceptionally high" and ...

MIL-OSI Translation: Trip to Slovakia.
846 字
2023 年 6 月 2 日
ForeignAffairs.co.nz
PARALL
英文
Copyright 2023. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.
MIL OSI Translation. Government of the Republic of France statements from French to English -

Thank you very much, Madam President, dear Zuzana,

Dobrý deň. Thank you for your warm welcome. I am happy with the first exchange we had, and we will have the opportunity this evening to continue this discussion, as you have just mentioned.

Five years after my first visit to Slovakia, I came to Bratislava as part of the thirtieth anniversary of the establishment of our diplomatic relations. Many stories have passed between our peoples over the centuries, but during these thirty years, we have particularly advanced on the path of close cooperation. Slovakia is today, for France, a trusted partner, a friend within the European Union and NATO.

Slovakia and France have had a strategic partnership since 2008 and today we are adopting an action plan for its implementation until 2027, which will allow us to breathe additional vigor into energy issues. , transport, economic relations, environment, education, security and defence, to name but a few of the sectors that are concerned. Today, we will sign important cooperation agreements in the civil nuclear and hydrogen sectors.

Beyond this intense partnership, this visit gives me the opportunity to discuss with you the security situation in Europe in the context of Russian aggression in Ukraine, on the eve of important deadlines. A second meeting of the European political community tomorrow in Chișinău, the June European Council in Brussels and the NATO summit in Vilnius in July, where we will meet together, and which will mark out, in a way, the decisions to be taken on the issue of support for Ukraine. The Vilnius summit will be an opportunity to come back to the effective implementation of the decisions we took last year in Madrid, in particular the strengthening of the Alliance on its eastern front, and I would like to repeat here that France plays its full part in this reinforcement, by having positioned military forces in Estonia and Romania from the start, by having reinforced our posture from the first days and by having intensified this effort. We decided from the first day to support Ukraine, to sanction Russia, and we will do it until the last moment with constancy and determination.

In this regard, I really want to congratulate the Slovak authorities and people for the clear positions you have taken, for the resilience also in the face of the war in neighboring Ukraine and for the help provided to Ukrainians in all areas from the start of the conflict. Political support — you yourself have been to Ukraine twice — humanitarian aid, economic and financial aid, legal assistance in documenting war crimes, military aid too, including deliveries guns, anti-aircraft defense systems, fighter planes. In doing so, Slovakia contributes to the unity of the European Union, to NATO, and to the challenges presented by Russian aggression in Ukraine. I want to especially thank you and your people.

More broadly, I have come here to reaffirm my commitment to dialogue with all our Central European partners. We must continue to work together to make Europe more united, more sovereign, in the fields of energy, technologies, and its security too. This is what I will repeat this afternoon during the GLOBSEC forum.

But security on the European continent also means, as you have just mentioned, we talked about it, the fight against disinformation and hate speech. I know that Slovakia is particularly affected by these phenomena which accentuate destabilization and which affect the proper functioning of our democracies, we will discuss them together, but I also hope that we can strengthen the action which is carried out within the framework of the Information Partnership and democracy. We have taken initiatives in France. We have also launched this European initiative and international cooperation. We need to go even further and step up our work in this area.

Because what is being attacked today in democratic Europe are very clearly the fundamental values that we uphold and to which we remain firmly attached. I once again salute the Slovak authorities for having been able to maintain a clear, constant course in this disturbed environment, in favor of the protection of freedoms and the rule of law. And I say it next to you because this fight and this preservation owe you a lot. Thank you also for that, Madam President.

We will have the opportunity to discuss all these subjects this evening, as well as climate change, the energy transition, our industries and many other points. Here are in a few words the main themes of this day, but by being present at your side, I wanted to reiterate all our support for your country and for yourself, and to tell you again how much we are aware of it, and we have measured it again in recent months, an ally, a strong European friend.

Thank you so much.

EDITOR'S NOTE: This article is a translation. Apologies should the grammar and/or sentence structure not be perfect.

MIL Translation OSI[http://milnz.co.nz/mil-osi-aggregation/]

Multimedia Investments Ltd

文件 PARALL0020230601ej62001u9


Hungary wants Russia sanctions exemption extended, ensure oil exports to Czechia
Aneta Zachová
264 字
2023 年 7 月 4 日 07:29 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Hungary will ask the European Commission to extend the sanction exemption Slovak company Slovnaft – a subsidiary of Hungary’s MOL’s – currently benefits from by another year to ensure exports of refined products made from Russian crude oil arrive in Czechia, said Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó after meeting his Slovak counterpart Ludovic Ódor on Monday.

The current exemption from sanctions, expiring in December 2023, concerns oil refining company Slovnaft, which is in Slovakia and owned by the Hungarian MOL group. The Czech Republic is currently one of Slovnaft’s main export markets.

Szijjártó said MOL needs another year to complete investments in Slovnaft which would allow the refinery to process crude oil other than the Russian Urals type, the Czech News Agency reported.

“One more year is needed to make these investments, which is why we are asking the EU to extend by one year the exemption from sanctions that allows MOL and Slovnaft, part of the group, to export refined products made from Russian crude to the Czech Republic,” Szijjártó added.

MOL uses Russian crude supplied by the southern branch of the Druzhba pipeline for its refineries in Slovakia and Hungary. Slovakia takes almost all of its oil from Russia via the Druzhba pipeline but plans to reduce the share of Russian oil this year.

Last year, non-Russian crude oil accounted for only about 5% of Slovnaft’s oil consumption. By the end of this year, that share should rise to 30 to 35%.

(Aneta Zachová | EURACTIV.cz)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020230704ej740000a


Spain to deploy troops in Slovakia, Rumania to strengthen NATO flank
Ana Luisa Brown
205 字
2023 年 7 月 12 日
Prensa Latina
PRSLAT
英文
© 2023 ACN. All rights reserved © - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Vilnius, Jul 12 (Prensa Latina) Spain on Wednesday announced it will contribute to the new NATO defense plan by deploying 750 troops in Slovakia and reinforcing 250 troops in Romania. The post Spain to deploy troops in Slovakia, Rumania to strengthen NATO flank first appeared on Prensa Latina.

Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez made the announcement in Lithuania’s capital Vilnius ahead of the two-day NATO leaders’ summit, which kicked off on Tuesday.

Spain will continue its efforts to ‘achieve a just and lasting peace (…) and we will do so in a spirit of commitment and solidarity with NATO´s eastern flank’, he stressed.

The stationing of more NATO troops in countries such as Poland, Romania and Slovakia was condemned at the time by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Spain´s troop deployment raises tension in a region marked by the Ukraine conflict and also at a time as sanction policies against Russia are escalating at high levels.

Precisely, the NATO summit in Lithuania has among its main objectives the enlargement of the alliance’s membership with the inclusion of Sweden after the lifting of the veto by Türkiye.

pll/abo/mem/ehl

ACN Agencia Cubana des Noticias

文件 PRSLAT0020230712ej7c000ma


Business
Why EU sanctions don't include Russian nuclear industry
1097 字
2023 年 7 月 19 日 10:06 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2023. DW
While the EU is on course to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels, it's struggling to kick its nuclear habit. That's because Russia's nuclear industry still wields huge clout.

Less than a week after the first Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine, an Ilyushin Il-76 cargo aircraft, belonging to Russian cargo airline Volga-Dnepr, flew across Belarus and Poland before landing in Slovakia.

The mysterious jet taking off from Russia took flight trackers by surprise as only a day ago the European Union had closed its airspace to Russian airlines and private jets in response to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.

Soon, it became clear that the plane was exempted from the ban as it was shipping critical nuclear fuel for Slovakia's four Russian-designed nuclear reactors.

About a month later, a Russian aircraft of the same make flew even further into neighboring Hungary again to deliver nuclear fuel. Much like Slovakia, Hungary is fully dependent on atomic fuel from Russia to power its nuclear power plants.

The twin flights were yet another symptom of Europe's decadeslong binge on Russian energy. Nuclear fuel sourced from Russia's state-owned nuclear agency Rosatom and its units helps generate nearly half the total electricity produced in Slovakia and Hungary and more than a third in the Czech Republic and Bulgaria.

While the EU is on course to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels, it's struggling to kick its Russian nuclear habit. As a result, hundreds of millions of euros continue to flow into Moscow's coffers.

The bloc has found it politically unpalatable to impose sanctions on the Russian civil nuclear industry. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has urged the EU to at least sanction Rosatom which is closely linked to Russia's military apparatus and has taken over the management of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in Ukraine.

"A year ago, I would have said Russian gas would be the most difficult for the EU to get rid of, but now it seems Russian nuclear may be the hardest one to get rid of," Niclas Poitiers from the Bruegel think tank told DW. "It has so many dependencies. It's very technical, very complicated. Then there's this whole thing about standards and safety."

The Rosatom leverage

The EU's foot-dragging stems from the outsized influence the Russian nuclear industry enjoys globally. Russia accounts for more than 45% of the world's uranium enrichment capacity, delivering atomic fuel to nuclear power plants in several countries, including in the US, which despite its harsh sanctions regime against Moscow continues to pay $1 billion (€912 million) a year to source fuel from Rosatom.

Almost 20% of raw uranium imported by the EU comes from Russia, Euratom Supply Agency data shows, with another 23% coming from Kazakhstan, where Rosatom is a major player. Russia also supplies a large proportion of the fuel rods for European nuclear power plants.

"Rosatom is one of the few companies in the world that has mastered the entire nuclear fuel cycle, i.e. enrichment, fuel production and also reprocessing," said Sonja Schmid, professor of science and technology studies at Virginia Tech University and the author of "Producing Power: The Pre-Chernobyl History of the Soviet Nuclear Industry."

Central and Eastern European countries are particularly reliant on Russian fuel. There are a total of 18 Russian-designed nuclear reactors — in Slovakia, Bulgaria, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Finland — that currently run exclusively on Russian fuel and rely on Russian technologies.

Additionally, Rosatom has had a long association with French utility EDF with the two signing a "long-term cooperation agreement" in 2021 to further boost ties.

The Russian firm is currently at the center of protests in the German town of Lingen where it is planning to manufacture nuclear fuel rods for Eastern European nuclear reactors in partnership with Framatome, an EDF unit.

Rosatom didn't respond to a request for comments. Framatome declined to comment for this article.

Hungary doubles down

Russia exported over $1 billion (€890 million) worth of nuclear technology and materials globally between March and December last year, research by the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) showed.

"In fact, not only has the value of Russian nuclear-related exports not shrunk since February 2022, the data reviewed by the author suggests that it may be expanding, with a handful of loyal customers still eager to do business with Russia's nuclear sector," RUSI said.

Among those "loyal customers" is Hungary. The value of Russian nuclear fuel exports to Hungary between March and December 2022 "far exceeded" that of any of the previous three years, the report found. In August 2022, Budapest controversially decided to move ahead with the construction of two more Russian nuclear reactors.

Unsurprisingly, Hungary was once again instrumental in keeping nuclear energy out of the EU's 11th sanctions package against Russia adopted in June.

Bruegel's Poitiers says while Hungary's stance has annoyed many European diplomats in Brussels, there is also a sense that the costs of sanctioning the Russian nuclear sector far outstrip the benefits given the EU's overreliance on Rosatom.

"Any sanction by itself wouldn't make a material difference on the battlefield and on Russia's ability to wage this war," he said, adding that revenue from nuclear exports to the EU is only a fraction of the tens of billions that Moscow collected by selling oil and gas to the bloc.

Lack of alternatives to Russian nuclear sector

Still, EU countries, including the Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Slovakia, are making efforts to diversify away from Russian nuclear fuel. Rosatom's US rival Westinghouse, which already supplies nuclear fuel to Russian-designed reactors in Ukraine, has expressed interest to supply alternative fuel.

In May, Finland's Fennovoima unilaterally terminated a contract for Rosatom to build a nuclear power plant.

Experts say while uranium from Russia could be relatively easily replaced by supplies from elsewhere, finding alternatives to Russian fuel enrichment capacity could take years.

"There's simply not enough capacity in other parts of the world to cut those ties and cut them quickly," Schmid said. "It's not a secretive technology, but it's a technology that involves a lot of capital investment. With the uncertainties surrounding the future of the nuclear industry, that's a hard sell to private industry to put up."

Edited by: Rob Mudge

Russian state-owned Rosatom is a key supplier of nuclear fuel and equipment globally (Aem-Technology/dpa/picture alliance)[https://static.dw.com/image/66068787_401.jpeg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020230719ej7j0008h


EDITORIAL
Russia – North Korea: U.S. sanction entities connected to Slovak arms dealer
867 字
2023 年 8 月 16 日
Insight EU Issue Monitor Posts (IEU-P)
DPAEUM
英文
Copyright 2023. Comecon Media GmbH
August 16, 2023

Today, the United States is imposing sanctions on three entities connected to a U.S.-sanctioned arms dealer who has attempted to facilitate arms deals between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) and the Russian Federation for Russia’s use in its brutal war against Ukraine.

Earlier this year, the United States designated Slovakian national Ashot Mkrtychev for attempting to facilitate arms deals between the DPRK and Russia. Mkrtychev is the President of Versor s.r.o[http://www.versor.sk/]., the founder and owner of Limited Liability Company Verus, and the sole director of Defense Engineering Limited Liability Partnership. These three entities are being designated today.

Today’s action underscores our commitment to identify, expose, and impose severe costs on third-country actors who support Russia’s illegal war against Ukraine. We will also continue to take actions against those attempting to evade our sanctions.

Treasury designated the above-mentioned entities pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13551 for being owned or controlled by or having acted or purported to act on behalf of, directly or indirectly, Mkrtychev, an individual blocked pursuant to E.O. 13551.

Please see Treasury’s press release for more information on today’s designation.

Source – U.S. State Department[https://www.state.gov/sanctioning-entities-connected-to-russia-dprk-arms-dealer/]

Treasury Sanctions Entities Tied to Arms Deals Between North Korea and Russia

August 16, 2023

WASHINGTON — Today, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) imposed sanctions on three entities tied to a sanctions evasion network attempting to support arms deals between Russia and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK). The entities are Limited Liability Company Verus (Verus), Defense Engineering Limited Liability Partnership (Defense Engineering), and Versor S.R.O. (Versor).

This action is part of the continuing U.S. strategy to identify, expose, and disrupt third-country actors seeking to support Russia’s brutal war against Ukraine. As Russia has continued to expend munitions and lose heavy equipment on the battlefield, it has been increasingly forced to turn to its few allies, including the DPRK, to sustain its unprovoked war in Ukraine. To date, Treasury has sanctioned hundreds of individuals and entities involved in circumventing the international sanctions regime on Russia.

“The United States continues to root out illicit financial networks that seek to channel support from North Korea to Russia’s war machine,” said Under Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Brian E. Nelson. “Alongside our allies and partners, we remain committed to exposing and disrupting the arms trade underpinning Putin’s brutal war in Ukraine.”

THE ILLICIT ARMS TRADE

OFAC designated [https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1377] Slovakian national Ashot Mkrtychev (Mkrtychev) on March 30, 2023, for attempting to facilitate arms deals between Russia and the DPRK. Through his negotiations with DPRK and Russian officials, he organized potential plans to transfer over two dozen kinds of weapons and munitions to Russia in exchange for a range of goods, including raw materials and commodities, to the DPRK. Mkrtychev is the President of Versor, the founder and owner of Verus, and the sole director of Defense Engineering. Mkrtychev has coordinated with DPRK procurement officials and used Versor to conduct negotiations with companies abroad.

OFAC is designating Versor, Verus, and Defense Engineering pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13551 for being owned or controlled by, or having acted or purported to act on behalf of, directly or indirectly, Mkrtychev, an individual blocked pursuant to E.O. 13551.

SANCTIONS IMPLICATIONS

As a result of today’s action all property and interests in property of the designated persons described above that are in the United States, or in the possession or control of U.S. persons, are blocked and must be reported to OFAC. In addition, any entities that are owned, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by one or more blocked person are also blocked. Unless authorized by a general or specific license issued by OFAC, or exempt, OFAC’s regulations generally prohibit all dealings by U.S. persons or within (or transiting) the United States that involve any property or interests in property of designated or otherwise blocked persons.

In addition, persons that engage in certain transactions with the individual designated today may themselves be exposed to designation. Furthermore, any foreign financial institution that knowingly facilitates a significant transaction or provides significant financial services for the individual designated today could be subject to U.S. correspondent or payable-through account sanctions.

The power and integrity of OFAC sanctions derive not only from OFAC’s ability to designate and add persons to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN) List, but also from its willingness to remove persons from the SDN List consistent with the law. The ultimate goal of sanctions is not to punish, but to bring about a positive change in behavior. For information concerning the process for seeking removal from an OFAC list, including the SDN List, please refer to OFAC’s Frequently Asked Question 897 here[https://ofac.treasury.gov/faqs/897].

For detailed information on the process to submit a request for removal from an OFAC sanctions list, please click here[https://ofac.treasury.gov/specially-designated-nationals-list-sdn-list/filing-a-petition-for-removal-from-an-ofac-list].

Click here for more information on the entities designated today.[https://ofac.treasury.gov/recent-actions/20230816]

Source – U.S. Treasury[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1697]

Comecon

文件 DPAEUM0020230816ej8g0005l


Slovakia This Week - September 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 9 月 15 日, 6695 字, (英文)
Construction in Slovakia increased by 3% y/y in JulyThe volume of construction production reached €612mn, the Slovak statistical office reported. It rose by 3% year-on-year and by 2.5% month-on-month.

Slovakia: Smer most likely to win elections, form majority govt, shift policy undesirably
4383 字
2023 年 9 月 28 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2023. CEEMarketWatch
For Smer-SD to form four- or five-party government, Voice-SD will have to agree to cooperate with far-right Republika

Progressive Slovakia likely to be runner up, but will need Voice-SD to form four-party government with KDH and either SaS or OLaNO

Therefore, Voice-SD emerges as kingmaker in forthcoming post-election negotiations, PS chances to form majority government are lower than those of Smer-SD

Only one poll suggests ethnic-Hungarian party Alliance may enter parliament

Smer-led government to increase social spending, threaten fiscal sustainability and country's rating, change country's foreign policy orientation

PS-led government to pursue fiscal consolidation via savings, value-for-money analysis of spending, target aid to vulnerable, not to move Slovakia from Western Europe core

All but one final opinion polls published until Sep 28 show that Robert Fico's centre-left party Smer-SD is likely win the early general election set for this Saturday, Sep 30, by winning between about a fifth and fourth of the vote. However, for the party to form a majority government, the results of the polls suggests that its sister party Voice-SD of ex-PM Peter Pellegrini will have to agree to rule with the far-right Republika, something Pellegrini has ruled out before, as well as to give up the premier's post to him, despite Smer-SD's head Robert Fico aspirations to this end. Smer-SD's potential coalition partners are also SNS, with which it has already ruled, and We Are Family. Although Voice-SD ruled out cooperation with far-right Republika and Smer-SD criticised its plans regarding NATO and EU membership, we cannot rule out that Smer-SD-led government may rely on Republika's tacit support.

Progressive Slovakia, which is likely to win the second biggest share of the vote (only one of the most recent polls indicated it may win the elections with small margin ahead of Smer-SD), may have a chance to form a majority government only if cooperating also with Voice-SD, which an option was not ruled out by its chairperson Michal Simecka. Yet, this scenario is subject to risks - on the one hand, Pellegrini's demand to become next premier and his claims Simecka will not be able to perform adequately on the post, on the other, PS's potential coalition partners such as SaS and KDH, or OLaNO-led coalition (if it makes it to the parliament), refusing to cooperate with Voice-SD. In any case, given the recent escalation of the tensions between OLaNO leader Igor Matovic and SaS chairperson Richard Sulik, Simecka will have to choose one of them and form a coalition also with KDH.

CAMPAIGN DEVELOPMENTS

As usual, the election campaign has been characterised by mutual accusations and sharp criticism. This year several themes prevailed - fearmongering with illegal migration, the high inflation and the need to support people against high energy prices and the increase in interest rates on mortgage loans, the personal relations of some politicians and their abusive behaviour. Slovakia's support for Ukraine was also high on the parties' pre-election agenda. At the same time, the need to remedy public finances, despite the warnings of the budget responsibility council RRZ and the caretaker government of PM Ludovit Odor was not part of the themes in the last month ahead of the elections, thus creating preoccupations of loose public finances also after the elections, hence risk of rating downgrades and even country's bankruptcy amid potential impossibility to refinance maturing debt.

The centre-left parties such as Smer-SD and Voice-SD focused on offering people higher outlays to fight the high inflation, pledging higher spending for regions without however giving any hint of how they would remedy public finances and speaking only of gradual, minimal and socially sensitive consolidation. They also indicated they would return to state ownership key companies in strategic sectors such as energy in order to secure better control of energy prices. Smer-SD specifically criticised the policy of the caretaker government of PM Ludovit Odor of 'inviting illegal migrants' to the country and used the theme to fearmonger people pledging to close Slovakia's border with Hungary. Smer-SD was also strongly critiquing of President Zuzana Caputova accusing her of siding with centre-right parties and even announced it would file a motion for her impeachment after the parliament's convocation for influencing investigation by meeting Prosecutor General Maros Zilinka back in 2021. Smer-SD was also fearmongering of rising interest rates on mortgage loans and people's inability to repay them following the ECB's monetary tightening, despite the NBS's assurances this would not result in marked increase of monthly instalments.

The former ruling party OLaNO was trying to fearmonger people with the return of Smer-SD, respectively return of mafia, to power and end of democracy, as well as by offering Fiats in a draw and one-off bonus to all who voted in the snap polls. OLaNO leader Igor Matovic even gate-crashed Smer-SD press conference and got punched by Smer-SD deputy head and former interior minister Robert Kalinak; mutual criminal complaints followed. However, as long as OLaNO and Matovic are no longer the face of change, but representatives of a government with record-low credibility, accompanied by chaos, controversial statements and conflicting communication, people do not seem to like much their attitude and the OLaNO-led coalition may fail to enter the parliament. Yet, OLaNO's campaign in the last days, including accusing former ruling coalition partner SaS's head Richard Sulik of working against country's interests while being economy minister worked out well and the party's rating increased.

PS thrives on being an alternative to Smer-SD by firmly rejecting any cooperation with it and fascists parties. The party managed not to succumb to populist statements and to remain amicable to its competitors. It has been criticised of not rejecting post-election cooperation with Voice-SD, which in our view is not surprising as long as Voice-SD may be the only party to secure the formation a centre-right government. Although the party has not been very vocal, its preferences continue to increase. The party, as we did, has been warning that Smer-SD returning to power would be a shift in policy that could push the country into isolation; the party numerous times promised to maintain support for Ukraine as it fights a Russian invasion, in line with EU and NATO partners.

SNS was quite active, and it managed to do what the right failed to do - unification. The party addresses the issue of the overpopulation of bears, which it considers a "biological weapon" aimed at rural residents. SNS leader Andrej Danko calls for an end to liberalism and fools, thereby hitting on the parties of the former government coalition. The election campaign of We Are Family was shadowed by the accusations of two former partners of its chairperson Boris Kollar of abuse, which hurt the party's preferences. We Are Family has not ruled out cooperation with any party, thus preparing to be a coalition partner in a government of the leftist or centre-right parties. Yet, some of the most recent polls indicate it may not enter the parliament. SaS is hurt by the label of a three-time government braker, but has been strong with its economic programme and a choice of reason; its ratings remained overall stable despite Matovic's attacks. KDH election campaign was marked by its chairperson Milan Majersky calling the LGBTI+ community a "plague", for which he awkwardly apologised.

OPINION POLLS

The final pre-election surveys released until Sep 28 indicate that eight or nine political entities are likely to enter the new parliament. All recent polls but one (of AKO) suggest Smer-SD will win the elections with a small lead on PS, Voice-SD would end as the third strongest political force and far-right Republika - probably as fourth strongest. The OLaNO-led coalition is to be represented in the parliament according to four of the seven polls that indicated growing support, while We Are Family is not to cross the 5% electoral threshold according to three of the seven polls. All the surveys but one also indicate that no political entity representing the ethnic-Hungarian minority would make it to the parliament.

An average of the final polling results indicates that the strongest (purely mathematically and theoretically) coalition would be of Smer-SD, Voice-SD, Republika, SNS and We Are Family. The emergence of a coalition with Republika is constrained on many levels, given the opinions of both Smer-SD and Voice-SD on Slovakia's foreign policym, as well as Voice-SD ruling out any possibility of cooperation with the far-right party. PS will be pressed to form a coalition with Voice-SD and KDH, and to choose between SaS and OLaNO as potential coalition parties as, given the recent escalation of the tensions between the chairpersons of the latter two, we cannot imagine that the two will be able to sit in a government together. However, this choice will give hard time to Progressive Slovakia as it will have to choose between a three-time government braker (SaS) and a party led by immature and megalomaniac Matovic. The emergence of such a coalition is also problematic as Voice-SD is viewed simply as satellite and sister party of the much detested Smer-SD and is not much preferred and even rejected potential partner.

Election preferences
                                                 Polis, Sep 16-20 NMS, Sep 21-24 Focus, Sep 22-26 Ipsos, Sep 22-25 AKO, Sep 20-26 Median, Sep 25-26 SANEP, Sep 17-25 Average
Sample                                           1,110            1,411          1,071            1,000            1,000          1,000             1,697            1,261
Party (% of vote)
Smer-SD                                          24.4%            19.4%          18.0%            20.6%            17.7%          19.8%             22.6%            20.4%
Progressive Slovakia                             15.1%            19.7%          16.6%            19.8%            18%            19.3%             16.1%            17.8%
Voice-SD                                         12.6%            10.5%          13.7%            11.9%            15%            11.7%             15.3%            13.0%
OLaNO and friends coalition                      5.7%             9.5%           8.2%             8.2%             9.4%           6.2%              6.5%             7.7%
Republika                                        6.8%             8.5%           7.7%             7.6%             5.4%           8.0%              7.4%             7.3%
SaS                                              6.4%             5.7%           5.8%             7.0%             7.3%           7.4%              5.4%             6.4%
KDH                                              5.7%             5.4%           6.5%             5.9%             6.1%           7.7%              5.1%             6.1%
SNS                                              5.8%             5.4%           5.8%             5.7%             6%             4.8%              6.0%             5.6%
We Are Family                                    5.3%             5.2%           4.1%             4.0%             5.1%           4.1%              5.5%             4.8%
Alliance                                         5.4%             3.1%           3.5%             3.4%             2.8%           2.5%              3.3%             3.4%
Democrats                                        2.0%             2.3%           4.0%             3.3%             4.3%           3.8%              3.4%             3.3%
L'SNS                                            1.9%             1.8%           1.7%             n.a.             n.a.           n.a.              1.4%             1.7%
Modri, Most–Hid                                  1.2%             1.1%           0.7%             n.a.             1.0%           2.1%              1.3%             1.2%
Madarske Forum                                   0.6%             0.3%           0.6%             n.a.             0.6%           n.a.              n.a.             0.5%

Parliamentary seats
Party
Smer-SD                                          42               33             33               36               30             40                41               36
Progressive Slovakia                             26               33             30               34               30             39                29               32
Voice-SD                                         22               18             25               21               25             24                27               23
OLaNO and friends coalition                                       16             15               14               16                                                15
Republika                                        12               14             14               13               9              16                13               13
KDH                                              9                9              12               10               10             16                9                11
SaS                                              11               9              10               12               12             15                10               11
SNS                                              10               9              11               10               10                               11               10
We Are Family                                    9                9              0                0                8                                10               6
Alliance                                         9                                                                                                                   9

Potential coalitions (seats, 76 MPs simple majority in 150-seat parliament)
Smer-SD, Voice-SD                                64               51             58               57               55             64                68               60
Smer-SD, Voice-SD, Republika                     76               65             72               70               64             80                81               73
Smer-SD, Voice-SD, We Are Family                 73               60             58               57               63             64                78               65
Smer-SD, Voice-SD, SNS                           74               60             69               67               65             64                79               68
Smer-SD, Voice-SD, We Are Family, SNS            83               69             69               67               73             64                89               73
Smer-SD, Voice-SD, Republika, SNS                86               74             83               80               74             80                92               81
Smer-SD, Republika, SNS                          64               56             58               59               49             56                65               58
Smer-SD, Republika, SNS, We Are Family           73               65             58               59               57             56                75               63
Smer-SD, Voice-SD, Republika, SNS, We Are Family 95               83             83               80               82             80                102              86
PS, We Are Family, KDH, OLaNO, SaS               55               76             67               70               76             70                58               67
PS, Voice-SD, KDH, SaS                           68               69             77               77               77             94                75               77
PS, Voice-SD, OLaNO, SaS, KDH                    68               85             92               91               93             94                75               85
PS, Voice-SD, OLaNO, KDH                         57               76             82               79               81             79                65               74

Note: Electoral threshold is 5% for parties, 7% for coalitions of two-to-four parties. Parties are ranked according to average share of vote or number of seats of all election surveys.
Source: Pollsters, EmergingMarketWatch calculations
The post-election situation will largely depend on the election turnout (estimated by pollsters at about 67% as compared to 65.75% in the 2020 elections), how many parties cross the 5% threshold and whether the OLaNO-led coalition will cross the 7% threshold, and by how much. We however overall expect the turnout to be lower than before as many people are strongly disappointed of the political representation that was formed in 2020 and its failure to bring social justice and improve justice and crime prevention, as well as of politicians' behaviour during the election campaign. Yet, the fearmongering might have proven to be an effective instrument of persuasion and more people may eventually vote in fear of high prices and mortgage instalments, illegal migrants, chaos, return of mafia to power.

Turnout in elections to parliament (%)
        1998  2002  2006  2010  2012  2016  2020  2023*
Turnout 84.24 70.06 54.67 58.83 59.11 59.82 65.75 67

Note: *forecast
Source: Stats office http://www.volbysr.sk[http://www.volbysr.sk], pollsters
POST-ELECTION SCENARIOS

Given the polls, the government to emerge from the elections will likely have to be a coalition of four-to-five parties. The post-election scenarios depend on several factors. The first is whether the parties can cooperate given their political views. The second is what their legislative power would be and whether they would be able to secure at least a simple majority of 76 MPs in the 150-seat parliament, as required by President Zuzana Caputova for mandating a PM-designate to form a government. Last but not least, the future coalition will depend on what compromises the parties will be willing to make. In any case, two central scenarios appear - a government of Smer-SD with other three-to-four parties or a government of PS with other three-to-four parties. A priori, a coalition of more than four parties is little operable, therefore little probable. Therefore, the future government plans will largely reflect the programmes of the two strongest parties in the potential coalitions, with certain changes to take on board the proposals of the smaller coalition parties. In any case, all the recent polls indicate that Voice-SD emerges as kingmaker and a majority coalition without it will not be possible.

Government led by Smer-SD

We believe that Smer-SD will aim to form a coalition with the biggest possible number of mandates in the parliament. Depending on the polls and the statements during the election campaign, its potential coalition partners could be Voice-SD, Republika, SNS and We Are Family. However, each of the parties have some red points they disapprove. Although Voice-SD chairperson Peter Pellegrini has previously said he did not want to sit in a government with Smer-SD chairperson Robert Fico, he now admits Smer-SD is closer ideologically to Voice-SD than Progressive Slovakia, something Fico has been saying for months. However, both Fico and Pellegrini want to be premiers, meaning that if Fico really wants Voice-SD to be in the coalition, he would most probably have to give up his aspirations, which may not be bad idea given that Pellegrini is one of the most trusted politicians. Furthermore, for having Voice-SD on board, Fico will have to give up cooperation with the far-right Republika as Voice-SD has rejected cooperation with it - this will not be that difficult as Fico assured Slovakia's EU and NATO membership were unquestionable, while Republika admits country's leaving the two if they are not reformed. SNS is almost certain to be in the future government as it has already been in a government with Smer-SD. We Are Family is easily switching sides and we do not expect it to refuse to be part of the future government led by Smer-SD. As SNS is more radical, while We Are Family appears to be sharing some of Smer-SD's views but is more moderate, SNS and We Are Family will balance each other in the potential future government.

What we may expect from this government?

A Smer-SD government will have a strong social agenda and provide support to people to help tackle high prices of food and energy, as well as growing mortgage payments given ECB's monetary tightening. More outlays are also to be provided to regions and the government will try to strengthen the state's position in strategic sectors such as energy sector in order to control prices. The latter may scare away foreign investors and may even result in lawsuits, meaning more expenses for the state. The party advocates 'reasonable' fiscal consolidation without detailing what it means - we assume that it would only pursue a reduction of the structural deficit by 0.5% of GDP per year as prescribed by the SGP rules that are likely to be reapplied as of next year, which will not be sufficient given the caretaker government and the budget responsibility recommendations[https://emergingmarketwatch.com/browser#/article/1226745] for much bigger consolidation effort. At the same time, the party wants to introduce taxation of excessive profits of certain sectors and reintroduce the special bank levy. Yet, we do not expect this to bring sufficient additional resources to cover for the generous social agenda. Therefore, the emergence of Smer-led government may result into Slovakia's impossibility to serve its debt at certain point of time and ratings downgrades (Slovakia is rated A negative by Fitch Ratings, A+ stable by S&P and A2 negative by Moody's; yields on government bonds rose sharply during the last auction of government bonds on the domestic market, despite the still strong interest). On the domestic front, a Smer-SD government may reverse back the efforts of the OLaNO-led government to fight corruption and crime as a number of Smer-SD members are being investigated in bribery, abuse of power.

With regard to foreign policy, although confirming that Slovakia's EU and NATO membership is irreplaceable, a Smer-led government would move the country away from Western Europe core and into isolation, in our view. Given the statements of Fico, who is following into the footsteps of Hungarian PM Viktor Orban, Slovakia will be hurt by its attitude towards Ukraine - namely plans to stop the military aid to Ukraine and only providing humanitarian aid. Moreover, a Smer-SD government would push for assessment of all types of sanctions on any country, which we read on Russia as well, on the impact they would have on Slovakia and for potentially changing them. This will be criticised by most of other EU member states and may indeed put the country into isolation. Last but not least, the party objects the plans to cancel the right of veto of individual EU member states, which it reads as attempts to weaken their position in the EU.

Voice-SD has no diametrically different views, while SNS, We Are Family are to have anyway small say in a Smer-led government.

Government led by Progressive Slovakia

PS has assured it would negotiate with all democratic parties after the elections with the exception of Smer-SD and fascists. All recent polls indicate that PS would not be able to form a majority government without Voice-SD; other potential coalition parties are SaS, KDH, OLaNO-led coalition (if it enters the parliament) and We Are Family. In any way, as SaS and OLaNO leaders Richard Sulik and Igor Matovic have very strained relations with Matovic even recently accusing Sulik of cooperating with the mafia, while Sulik has numerously said he could not imagine to sit in a government with Matovic, PS will have to choose between the two, i.e. immature and megalomanic Matovic and the three-time government braker SaS. Another risks for the emergence of such a coalition is that the KDH would back tax hikes and the reintroduction of the special bank levy as measure to consolidate public finances, which strongly contradicts SaS's stance on not hiking taxes. KDH will be also potentially problematic partner for PS as it views part of PS programme having elements of extremism. Although PS has not rejected cooperation with Voice-SD, its leader Michal Simecka admits it is not PS's preferred coalition partner, while OLaNO firmly rejects it. Yet, Simecka may not have other choice if the parliament ends in a stalemate after the elections and Voice-SD appears as kingmaker, as indicated by some of the latest polls. In this case, Simecka may be pressed to give up the premier's post as Voice-SD head Pellegrini strongly vies for it and even SaS has pointed out that Simecka has no experience to lead a government, alluding at OLaNO's head Matovic and the chaos and fiasco that followed the 2020 general election. We think SaS's preoccupations are not unjustified, but we doubt PS would allow another party to nominate the premier.

What we may expect from this government?

A PS-led government will support fiscal consolidation, but in a socially (with regard to vulnerable groups) and economically sustainable way, in accordance with the spending limits valid from 2024, via savings on the least effective expenditures and cancellation of inefficient subsidies, as well as using value-for-money for all public spending. However, we do not think this would be sufficient to prevent potential Greek scenario and Slovakia's bankruptcy. The party suggests measures for vulnerable people for solving the cost of living crisis as well as systemic measures in energy, agriculture, food, the housing market, and banking. Such a cabinet will work to restart the economy with reforms and support to entrepreneurship and innovation, provide for simple, efficient and fair tax system. Given PS's programme, such a cabinet will have a strong agenda in security and justice, namely reforming the police force and making the justice system accessible, predictable and fast that will bring people fair and enforceable solutions to disputes and legal problems. This is positive news and continuation of the former ruling party OLaNO anti-corruption agenda, which will also support the country's sovereign ratings. The foreign policy of PS-led government will not move Slovakia away from the Western Europe core as it would support diplomatic, humanitarian and military aid to Ukraine, Ukraine's membership in the EU and the EU's sanction policy towards Russia and Belarus, the EU's common foreign and security policy, banking and fiscal union with its own budget and an EU finance minister with political responsibility. Such a cabinet will also work for strengthening the resistance of Slovakia to dependence on supplies of raw materials, energy.

If SaS is part of the future government, it will also push for a flat tax of 19%, expanding the tasks of the Value for Money Unit, financial strengthening of local governments, fight against corruption and change Paragraph 363 of the Penal Code, change in the position of the prosecutor's office. If We Are Family is part of the PS-led government, it will also push for households to have housing security even in case of inability to pay mortgage instalments, transformation of Slovakia from an assembly shop to an advanced technological economy with high added value and higher salaries; help families and children, single-parent households deal with high inflation. Given KDH election programme, it, if part of the future government, will try to push for enforcing energy poverty law and control of retail chains' margins, reducing administrative burden for small entrepreneurs and self-employed people, including by introducing favourable flat-rate deduction, tax system simplification to a single income tax. Voice-SD potentially joining a PS-led government will mean higher outlays to regions and more generous social agenda such as 13th pension than PS's programme suggests. The party will also oppose faster fiscal consolidation and will advocate a stronger role of the state in strategic sectors such as energy, food security, healthcare, push for re-enacting the legal limitation to the mark-up on selected foodstuffs, introducing zero VAT tax on homegrown food products while also cutting VAT tax on foods from 10% to 5% - these plans will however most likely be opposed not only by PS, but also by the liberal SaS.

RESULT TIMING

Voting will take place from 7:00 CET to 22:00 CET on Saturday, Sep 30. The stats office will publish the results of the election on its election website[https://volbysr.sk/sk/index.html]. The first preliminary unofficial results should be made available about an hour after the polling stations are closed at 22:00 CET. The stats office will provide the official results as soon as they are approved by the State Commission for Elections and Control of Political Parties' Financing on Sunday, Oct 1.

CONSTITUTIONAL STEPS

The government is appointed by the president. Within 30 days of its appointment, the government must submit its programme - manifesto, to the parliament and seek a vote of confidence.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020230928ej9s0003d


Slovakia This Week - September 29, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 9 月 29 日, 14235 字, (英文)
Slovak economy expected to grow by 1.3% in 2023Growth of the Slovak GDP is expected to slow down to 1.3% in 2023 as a result of the Russian full-scale invasion of Ukraine, the latest macroeconomic prognosis by the Ministry of Finance shows.

Putin 'on brink of earning new ally in EU' as anti-sanction leader tipped for election win
Alice Scarsi
966 字
2023 年 9 月 30 日 03:00 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2023
Robert Fico shaking Vladimir Putin's hands in 2009

The Slovak parliamentary election taking place on September 30 may see the return of a well-known character on the country's political stage who has led, albeit by a small percentage, the electoral polls in recent weeks: Robert Fico, the former Prime Minister of Slovakia.

But since his ousting in 2018 forced by a popular revolt linked to the murders of an investigative journalist and his girlfriend, Mr Fico has seemingly turned his back on the EU and NATO and embraced a more populist agenda, which includes lashing out at Russian sanctions and embracing some of Vladimir Putin's anti-Ukraine propaganda.

This has sparked fears in the West that Russia may be about to gain a new ally in the heart of Europe.

Indeed, in recent months Mr Fico vowed to halt sanctions aimed at Russia, put an end to the military aid sent by Slovakia to Ukraine and even endanger Kyiv's attempt to join NATO.

In August, he went to the extent of parroting the Russian president during a speech to supporters, as he repeated Moscow's propaganda according to which the war in Ukraine started not as a result of an illegal invasion but as a civil war, when "the Ukrainian Nazis and fascists started to murder the Russian citizens in Donbas and Luhansk".

Robert Fico was first elected Prime Minister in 2006

But one expert suggested Mr Fico's barks may be worse than his bite, in part thanks to Slovakia's electoral system.

Michael Rossi, lecturer in the Department of Political Science at Rutgers University, noted Mr Fico's political party, Smer, isn't dramatically leading in the poll and, even if he was elected Prime Minister, he would still need the support of at least two other political parties to reach the majority he needs, an alliance set to curb his extremism and pro-Russian views.

Earlier this week, Smer was projected to get some 20 per cent of the votes, giving him a small lead over the social-liberal Progressive Slovakia party. The lead seemingly vanished in a poll published on September 27 by AKO agency, which placed Smer at 17.7 per cent, 0.3 per cent behind Progressive Slovakia.

Mr Rossi believes it likely Smer, if it came out a winner from this election, would form a coalition with, among others, Peter Pellegrini's HLAS–SD, a party with more moderate views than those being expressed by Mr Fico.

The expert told Express.co.uk: "A party that gets a little more than 20 per cent of the vote in a multi-party state has to work with other parties. So if Pellegrini is interested in reconsidering the sanctions for example, then we have something to talk about.

Prime Minister hopeful attending a TV debate in Slovakia

"But the point is that it's got to be more than one person. It needs to be the political heads within a coalition and if it doesn't work, then it may just be a little more than rhetoric playing into public grievances."

He added: "So it's very, very messy, I can tell you that much. For those that seem to feel the worst if Fico comes in, I would say best case scenario, he might get some of his ideas out, but it's going to be very difficult for him to enable the hardline policies that he is promising if he has to work with a coalition of three or four political parties."

The spotlight gained by Mr Fico in recent weeks is largely due to the flop of the OĽaNO party, which lost the confidence of his political allies within weeks of gaining power in March 2020.

Mr Rossi added: "Fico is toxic for many Slovaks, who just simply see him as a relic of the old political oligarchy. So I wouldn't worry too much about him all of a sudden experiencing a comeback."

Robert Fico left office in 2018

Mr Fico was Slovakia's Prime Minister between 2006 and 2010, a legislature during which Slovakia entered the Eurozone, and then again between 2012 and 2018.

Still, Mr Rossi noted the former Prime Minister is "playing into a very predictable but not surprising populist narrative" which puts his country first and results attractive to many, not just in Slovakia.

The politician's words on the conflict in Ukraine and the sanctions towards Russia may make a dent in the many Slovaks who don't believe Moscow is responsible for the war.

A trends report published this summer by Slovak think tank GLOBSEC suggested that only 40 per cent of people in the country believe Russia to be responsible for the war in Ukraine - a figure smaller than in Hungary and Bulgaria.

While Mr Fico alone is unlikely to prove to be a danger to the stability of the EU and the support for Ukraine, the expert acknowledged the existence in Slovakia as much as in other Western nations of "war fatigue" and economic issues linked to the conflict in Ukraine.

He said: "The big issue is, does that translate into being pro-Russia? Or does that translate simply into being anti-sanction?

"Because if it's the second, it doesn't necessarily mean that the public is now pro-Putin, it doesn't mean that they're pro-Russian, it just simply means that we're tired of supporting what is basically a proxy war between the United States and Russia, we're tired of getting stuck in the middle and we're tired of having all of these economic sanctions backfire on us."

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020230930ej9u000e1


CE Noticias Financieras English
The 'socialist family' doesn't want an Orbán: will kick out Slovakia's winner if he moves from "rhetoric to action"
530 字
2023 年 10 月 3 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The victory of the populist and pro-Russian candidate Robert Fico displeases in Brussels for his anti-Ukrainian slogans and xenophobic and homophobic positions, but directly challenges the 'socialist family' to which his party, SMER, belongs. The Socialists do not rule out taking measures against Fico, including sanctions or the expulsion of his organization from the Party of European Socialists (PES) and the Group of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, but they are waiting to see how it develops if he achieves the agreements to come to power after obtaining a 23% support in the polls.

The populist Robert Fico wins the elections in Slovakia. The idea defended by the vice-president of the Socialists in the European Parliament, Pedro Marques, is that they want to see if the "rhetoric" of the electoral campaign, in which he stated that the war was started by "Ukrainian Nazis and fascists", linked immigration with terrorism and opposed marriage between people of the same sex, is converted into "actions". Although he has not recognized that it is "very worrying", he reminded that there is not even a government in Slovakia yet. It will be then that they will act if the sophistry moves into executive action.

"If this rhetoric continues and is applied in the government, I will make sure that the process (of suspension or expulsion) begins," PES leader Stefan Lövfen assured in an interview, according to Agencia EFE.

"Breaches in the rule of law of the possible future government, in the support for Ukraine, in our positions on LGTBIQ+ rights or in coalitions with the extreme right will be concrete situations that could lead us to a sanction process against this party and to an eventual expulsion from the PES," Marques defended in a press conference in Strasbourg.

The positions of Fico, who also opposes the mandatory distribution of refugees, are similar to those of the ultranationalist Viktor Orbán, whom Marques himself has mentioned to make it clear that the Socialists will not act like the European People's Party, which kept Orbán until 2021 and finally it was he who left it to avoid expulsion. "We will not drag our feet for ten years as the European People's Party did with Orbán," said the Socialist MEP after the leader of that formation, Manfred Weber, asked for explanations on the position regarding Fico.

The eventual coming to power of Fico worries European partners at a time when unity in support of Ukraine threatens to crack after Poland has confronted Volodímir Zelenski over the grain conflict and Orbán has threatened not to support its international policy (when the 27 have to decide in December whether to start negotiations for EU membership) for the treatment of the Hungarian minority, 500 million for armaments because of the inclusion of the Hungarian bank OTC in the black list of companies that help Russia. Concern is also growing at the risk of the United States losing steam in aid to Ukraine, despite the commitment shown by Joe Biden.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020231003eja300dqo


News; International
European Union Ministers Meet In Kyiv, Pledge Support; Pro- Russian Fico Gets Two Weeks To Form Government After Win; UNSC Authorizes "Security Mission" For Haiti; Armenia Reports One Soldier Killed In Cross-Border Attack; Serbian President: Criminals Will Be Held Accountable. Aired 2-3a ET
Rosemary Church, Nada Bashir, Nic Robertson, Dominic Thomas, Stefano Pozzebon, Bianca Nobilo, Isa Soarez, Brynn Gingras, Will Ripley
5952 字
2023 年 10 月 3 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[02:00:30]

ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church.

Just ahead here on CNN NEWSROOM. The E.U. makes an historic show of support for Ukraine, with officials from across the block gathering in Kyiv, pledging more military aid.

But here in the U.S. a cloud of uncertainty hangs over America's ongoing support, as funding for Ukraine aid gets caught up in Washington's political infighting.

Plus, inside the campaign preserve a much beloved park in Tokyo. Why organizers say the fight is about much more than just one city park?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM WITH ROSEMARIE CHURCH.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: Good to have you with us.

Ukraine is expected to top the agenda, as NATO leaders gather in the coming hours for the annual Warsaw Security Forum. It follows a strong show of support for Ukraine from European Union foreign ministers. They met for the first time in a non-member nation on Monday, gathering in Kyiv.

Foreign Policy Chief Josep Borrell is proposing a $5.25 billion aid package for Ukraine in 2024. He says the block support is long term and does not depend on one day battlefield advances.

Ukraine's president addressed the meeting, calling for more sanctions against Russia, and closer cooperation with the European Union.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOSEP BORRELL, FOREIGN POLICY CHIEF, EUROPEAN UNION: Our resolve to support the fight of freedom and independence of Ukraine is firm and will continue.

The strongest security commitments that we can give to Ukraine is European Union membership.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: The E.U. foreign ministers paid tribute to Ukrainian soldiers killed in the Russian invasion. They laid flowers at a memorial wall in Kyiv and held a moment of silence.

Well, meantime, in the U.S., President Joe Biden says he fully expects Congress to approve new funding for Ukraine. Over the weekend, Congress stripped future spending for Ukraine from a bill to fund the government and avert a shutdown.

The U.S. State Department calls that unacceptable.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEW MILLER, SPOKESMAN, UNITED STATES STATE DEPARTMENT: If we allow authoritarians like President Putin to do whatever they want to other sovereign countries, then, the whole U.N. Charter will be shredded, and we are going to live in a world where this kind of aggression can happen anywhere, anytime. That would be far more expensive for the American people and far more dangerous for the American people.

We cannot, under any circumstances allow America support for Ukraine to be interrupted. Our allies, our adversaries, and the world will be watching.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: CNN's Nada Bashir is following developments for us. She joins us live from London. Good morning to you, Nada. So, what is the significance of Monday's meeting in Kyiv, especially, given the uncertainty of the ongoing U.S. funding for Ukraine?

NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER: You're absolutely right, Rosemary. I mean, the timing of this is significant. And on the symbolic front, this meeting of E.U. foreign ministers within Ukraine is deeply symbolic.

This was the first time that the Foreign Affairs Council was held opened in Kyiv, in Ukraine. Of course, that we heard from the Ukrainian foreign minister yesterday, Dmytro Kuleba, he described this meeting as not necessarily taking place within E.U. borders at this point right now, but, in his words, in future E.U. borders.

So, deeply symbolic on that front. And, of course, we heard from the European Union foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell, he spoke about this as being an expression of the will and the commitment of E.U. member states to continue supporting Ukraine, particularly, of course, on the heels of that somewhat controversial decision taken by the U.S. Congress to not include provisions for additional funding for Ukraine in that emergency budget.

But, of course, we have had renewed and vocal expressions of support from E.U. leaders, particularly when it comes to funding. Take a listen to this statement from the German Foreign Minister speaking yesterday.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANNALENA BAERBOCK, GERMAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): With this foreign council of E.U. foreign ministers, we are taking the European Union to where the heart of Europe beat strongest at the moment; here and Kyiv, here in Ukraine.

[02:05:01]

Ukraine's future lies in the European Union, in our community of freedom. And it will soon stretch from Lisbon to Luhansk, with every village, with every meter that Ukraine liberates, with every meter where it saves its people. It also paves its way into the European Union.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BASHIR: Now, of course, there were no official conclusions or agreements made at this meeting was not technically an official meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council given that it did take place outside of E.U. premises. But we have seen some practical movement on discussions around the Ukraine's future accession to the European Union or prospects around Ukraine's future accession.

We heard from the Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, saying that there were discussions around this, positive indications he believes that the E.U. and Ukraine are on the same page in terms of those negotiations. And it's hopeful that those negotiations can begin before the end of this year. So, significant developments are on that front.

There are, of course, very stringent requirements when it comes to accession to the European Union and Ukraine will be no exception despite the circumstances. We know that recommendations have been put forward for reform by the European Union.

Kuleba spoke about these yesterday, and these include measures such as tackling corruption, money laundering, press freedoms, and minority rights in Ukraine. But he is hopeful that those negotiations will begin soon.

Of course, Josep Borrell, the E.U. foreign affairs chief, describing Russia's aggression against Ukraine as an existential threat to the European Union as a whole.

CHURCH: And Nada, what will likely come out of the NATO defense minister meeting in Poland later today at the Warsaw security conference?

BASHIR: Look, this is a two-day summit. We are expecting to see a number of panels discussions talks between foreign ministers and defense ministers from across the European Union. There will be a significant focus, of course, as anticipated on Ukraine. That will be high on the agenda. But also, on strengthening NATO's collective defense capabilities in the face of continued aggression from Russia.

So, that will be high on the agenda. Those talks have to continue into tomorrow. And, of course, this comes ahead of an official NATO Summit, which is set to convene in Brussels and next week. So, there will be of course important focus and coordinate talks, leading up to that official summit next week.

CHURCH: All right. Our thanks to Nada Bashir, joining us live from London. Appreciate it.

Well, to turn now to Slovakia, where a pro-Russian leader has won the parliamentary election and has been given two weeks to form a government. The victory is important because, as you see on this map, Ukraine is bordered by Russia to the east and Slovakia to the west.

Now, as Robert Fico tries to build a coalition government. There's a new focus on his comments against sending arms to Ukraine.

CNN's Nic Robertson has details.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice over): Robert Fico, Slovakia's pro-Putin populist leader has been here before. 2006, 2010, and 2016, winning the biggest vote share in national elections. 22.9 percent. But not enough for his Smer-SD party to govern alone.

As they did, following the elections in 2012, he's challenge now, build a governing coalition. The clock is ticking, he has two weeks.

ROBERT FICO, LEADER, SMER PARTY (through translator): I want to say to all Slovakia that we are ready. We are enlightened and we are more experienced in the fight we have taken.

ROBERTSON (voice over): If he succeeds, it would be his third-term as prime minister, and could have a big impact beyond Slovakia's borders. Fico's no weapons to Ukraine policy would be a massive U-turn, potentially, ending Slovakia's stalwart support for its neighbor.

FICO: We are ready to help Ukraine humanitarianly. We are ready to help in the restoration of the states. But our opinion on arming Ukraine does not change.

ROBERTSON (voice over): For now, no change in Slovakia's Ukraine policy, the current technocrat foreign minister in Kyiv, with his E.U. counterparts pledging continuity.

MIROSLAV WLACHOVSKY, SLOVAKIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: We came here to express our full support for sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.

ROBERTSON (voice over): Reality is, his replacement in a feat so led government may rankle E.U. unity and not just over Ukraine.

Ahead of this election, European Commission vice president, Vera Jourova warned Russia's disinformation is rampant in Slovakia.

VERA JOUROVA, VICE PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN COMMISSION FOR VALUES AND TRANSPARENCY: They speak about dangerous campaigns, which is misleading, which can do harm to the society, which can radicalize the society, and which can radically change the election's result.

ROBERTSON (voice over): It's too soon to know if Jourova's fears were realized.

[02:10:02]

But pro-Putin sentiment is already strong. Most Slovaks don't blame him for invading Ukraine.

If Fico fails to build a coalition as he did in 2010, other parties are confident they can muster the 75 seats, and the 150-member parliament needed --

MICHAL SIMECKA, LEADER, PROGRESSIVE SLOVAKIA: Realistically there are two options, you know, at the table. One is the government led by Mr. Fico, and the other one is a coalition made up of progressive Slovakian and other partners which would in fact, have over 80 M.P.s.

ROBERTS (voice over): For now, though, it's Fico and the driving seat, potentially putting him on a collision course with European leaders, something sure to please Putin.

Nic Robertson, CNN, London.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CHURCH: CNN European Affairs commentator, Dominic Thomas, joins me now. Good to have you with us.

DOMINIC THOMAS, CNN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS COMMENTATOR: Thanks for having me on, Rosemary.

CHURCH: So, Slovakia's president has asked populist former Prime Minister Robert Fico, to try to form a coalition government after winning early parliamentary election. So, what form might that coalition take do you think? And what could it mean, ultimately, for Slovakia's relations to the rest of Europe?

THOMAS: Yes. So, the road to power in Slovakia is 76 seats. No party managed to get that. And none of the top three parties able to move forward without creating, therefore, these kinds of complex coalition.

So, Fico has an opportunity here by just joining up with two political parties to be able to move forward. And I think that the likelihood is that he'll move with the party that came third in this election that is known as Voice.

That is an outgrowth of his party and with whom they share these very important issues that played out in the election, which is the interruption of military aid and support for conflict in Ukraine, the end to sanctions on Russia, and for arguing for peaceful talks and negotiations. Highly controversial points.

And all they would need if those two parties that have been partners before to join up would be at one of the smaller parties, probably the Nationalist Party of Slovakia would join up with them.

For the party that came in second, they would need three more coalition parties. Their positions are diametrically opposed in the sense of their allegiance to European Union and to European Union talking points.

And I think it would be an uphill struggle for them, Rosemary to be able to move forward and create a stable coalition government.

CHURCH: Dominic, as you touched on, Fico pledged to end support for Ukraine. So, what could his coalition government mean if he's able to form it for Russia's war on Ukraine?

THOMAS: Yes. Well, this is a very complicated situation, because they are essentially ran a campaign, which in many ways, was sort of taking the pulse on how these issues would play out in a national context.

Those particular talking points pertaining to Russia, end of support for Ukraine are diametrically opposed to the positions of the European Union on these questions.

The European Union and NATO, I should add, have been very clear on this. In this particular conflict, there is a clear aggressor, it is Russia, and there is a country that has been illegally occupied, and that is Ukraine.

Moving to a negotiating table, even though everybody hopes for peace is essentially to argue, without Russia having been withdrawn, that somehow both parties have a legitimate claim.

This is a very risky proposition. It sets an awful precedent in terms of invasion. But I think the bigger issue, Rosemary here is that we see a kind of fracture, developing amongst European Union member countries on these particular questions.

And we know that the Russian propagandist's machine has been very adept at exploiting these kinds of polarizing issues.

CHURCH: And Dominic, what do we need to know about Robert Fico, and of course, his relationship with Russia's President Vladimir Putin?

THOMAS: Yes. Well, I mean, these are, like, for example, all ban in Hungary, political leaders that have a track record of walking a very fine line between adherence to European to the European Union from which the country benefits exponentially, financially, while at the same time, not so much being in their sphere of influence of Russia, back working along the principles of a kind of sympathy, and a sort of nostalgia, and for that kind of relationship. And in this particular concept -- context of conflict in which neutrality is simply not an option, those particular positions are problematic when it comes to the broader question of E.U. and NATO, and how they want to go about handling this.

[02:15:03]

And we see this particular figure, therefore, as disrupting the focus of the E.U. and NATO on these particular questions.

CHURCH: And what do you think the outcome of this election means in terms of the sentiment across Slovakia?

THOMAS: Well, I think that you have a very divided and very polarized country. And I think that you see this in a lot of European elections. The fact that coalitions have been so very difficult to forge, that you have a proliferation of smaller political parties, I think reflects the ways in which these kinds of fractures are there.

And as I said earlier, this particular election allowed us to take a pulse on these particular issues, in a context, in which, many other questions are shaping debates in the European Union today, around immigration, cost of living, and inflation. And we can see some of the support for Ukraine for a neighbor and partner in the European Union here dwindling.

And I think that moving forward, especially with the shadow of the Polish election coming up in two weeks-time, that there is a lot of uncertainty, therefore, moving forward in the European Union and NATO ranks when it comes to these sorts of questions.

CHURCH: Dominic Thomas, always a pleasure to get your analysis. Many thanks.

THOMAS: Thank you.

CHURCH: More than two years after a presidential assassination plunged the Caribbean nation of Haiti into deadly violence and political chaos, the U.N. has authorized an armed force to try to restore order.

Heavily armed gangs controlled much of Haiti, including most of the capital, and 1,000s of Haitians have been killed or displaced. Kenya will now lead about 2,000-armed security forces into the country to help Haiti's police who are outmanned and outgunned.

It's not known how the mission will be received. The last time the U.N. put a force in Haiti, it accidentally brought cholera, which killed about 10,000 Haitians.

Journalist Stefano Pozzebon, shows us just how difficult the situation in Haiti has become.

STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN JOURNALIST: The United Nations Security Council approved on Monday the deployment of a multinational armed force to Haiti, as gang violence and political paralysis continue to affect the Caribbean nation. The forces is expected to be led by Kenya, which has pledged 1,000 policemen to spearhead the mission, although other countries in the Caribbean have also expressed their intention to participate.

The vote was passed there on Monday afternoon with the abstention of China and Russia. It follows repeated calls by the Prime Minister Ariel Henry to pledge for international assistance. And it was actually applauded by the government of Henry.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JEAN VICTOR GENEUS, HAITIAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): On behalf of the government and people of Haiti, I would like to thank all of those who, through their voices, their efforts, their support, and their contribution of all sorts, have finally made today's decision possible.

More than just a simple vote, this is in fact an expression of solidarity with a population in distress.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

POZZEBON: Henry took power in 2021, following the assassination of late President Jovenel Moise. What estimations question is mandates (PH) the security situation has greatly worsened under his watch.

The country's capital Port-au-Prince, for example, is largely controlled by warring gangs. And the United Nations estimated that some 200,000 Haitians have had to flee their homes due to the wave of violence.

As of now, it is unclear when this multinational force would actually reach Haiti, nor the exact composition of this expedition.

For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota.

CHURCH: Still to come. The U.S. claims Serbia is amassing forces at Kosovo's border. But Serbia's president says otherwise.

We will take a deep dive into the tensions between the two countries after a short break.

And Donald Trump calls the latest civil action against him a scam and a sham. But the fraud trial could be hitting him where it hurts.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[02:21:35]

CHURCH: Armenia's Defense Ministry claims an Armenian soldier was killed and two more injured after an attack from Azerbaijani forces on Monday. Azerbaijan's Defense Ministry calls the reports completely false.

It comes amid a mass exodus of refugees after the fall of Nagorno- Karabakh. More than 100,000 refugees have fled Nagorno Karabakh to Armenia amid the crisis, according to the United Nations Refugee Agency.

Meantime, Armenia is urging the European Union to sanction Azerbaijan for its military operation against the enclave fearing future attacks.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TIGRAN BALAYAN, ARMENIAN AMBASADOR DESIGNATE TO THE EUROPEAN UNION: It's not only the opinion of the Armenian government, but also of many experts, also the some of the E.U. member states that the attack on Armenia's proper is imminent.

I do not believe any single word, any single assurance that is coming from the from Aliyev himself, and also his entourage, his envoys.

The only thing I believe that Europe has a historic possibility of helping a democracy to resist the brutal dictatorship that wants to invade it in and to ruin a democratic society.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: U.S. officials, say they have been tracking a growing number of Serbian forces gathering at the country's border with Kosovo.

A contingent of more than 8,000 soldiers had been at the border following a deadly attack on Kosovo's police force last month. Authorities say one officer and three armed attackers were killed.

CNN's Bianca Nobilo and Isa Soares break down the conflict up to this point.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: The issues between Kosovo and Serbia begin with deep seated geographical and historical enmity. Now, the tensions at the moment are flaring in this area here. And the U.S. has warned of an unprecedented, they say, military build-up from Serbia, of troops, artillery, and tanks on this border, which of course, is making Kosovo and their government very nervous. They say it resembles what we saw Russia do prior to its invasion of Ukraine in 2022.

But where did this current tension come from? For that, we need to go back one week. And this man is now at the center of what was a very violent attack in the northern provinces of Kosovo, which has Serb majority.

It came out of nowhere. It surprised people on both sides. Now, the Kosovo government says there were 30 gunmen involved. They stormed a Kosovo police patrol.

And this man, Milan Radoicic, says that he was fully responsible for that. That the Serbian government had nothing to do with it.

ISA SOARES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: So, he admits it.

NOBILO: He said it admits to nothing to do with it. He said it was all his idea. It was his planning. He executed it. And he said that his intention was to try and encourage Serbs in Kosovo to resist the rule of the Kosovo Prime Minister Albin Kurti.

Now, this seems strange for a number of reasons, and we'll get to that in just a second.

We can see here on the far right, that's Radoicic, supposedly captured on video on the day of these attacks.

Now, what is raising question marks for some in Kosovo is the extent of the weaponry that Radoicic had when these 30 supposed Serbian gunmen made this attack in northern Kosovo. There were sophisticated artillery.

[02:25:01]

There were radio kits. Plenty of weapons and grenades, which would seem very strange for a sort of last-minute paramilitary force to put together. So, the question then becomes --

(CROSSTALK)

SOARES: Who could be behind this, is where you're leading?

NOBILO: Exactly.

SOARES: OK. So, question marks on what is the thinking? and who has the most -- let me put it this way, who has the most to win from this?

NOBILO: Well, this is what is so deeply perplexing and why the plot keeps thickening, because both sides have a lot to lose here.

Serbia has been in a really difficult position since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, because it has these historical ties to Russia has a Slavic and an orthodox affinity. And they want to keep that relationship. But Serbia does have aspirations to join the European Union. So, it's trying to straddle Russia and the West.

So, launching an attack on Kosovo --

(CROSSTALK)

SOARES: Is not certainly -- yes.

NOBILO: Which, obviously, G7 countries recognize or potentially even gearing up to some sort of invasion, which is what the Kosovans have said they're worried about, would completely destabilize and eradicate any possibility of that happening.

But equally, the idea that they had no knowledge of an attack of paramilitaries with --

(CROSSTALK)

SOARES: Of that size, of that scale.

NOBILO: A large amount in weaponry --

(CROSSTALK)

SOARES: Yes.

NOBILO: That their intelligence services weren't aware that, that was bubbling away in northern Kosovo and being prepared. Does stretch credulity a little bit.

So, as far as both sides are concerned, there has been criticism of those in Kosovo and the government there for not granting the autonomy to Serbs that was promised the Serbians feel like they've reneged on those promises to feel like they're necessarily protected in the north, but as far as Kosovo is concerned, to see this surprise attack, this potential military buildup when trust is at an all-time low, there is just no capital there between the two.

SOARES: Indeed.

NOBILO: It certainly has the potential as the German ambassador to the U.S. said just a day ago to the Europe's next powder keg.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CHURCH: Serbia's president says the White House report on troop buildup is not fully accurate. Speaking with CNN's Christiane Amanpour, he claims to have reduced troops out the border by nearly half.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ALEKSANDAR VUCIC, SERBIAN PRESIDENT: A year ago, we used to have 14,000 people at the administrative line with Kosovo. Few days ago, we used to have less than 8.4 thousand. Today, we have it 4.4 thousand, which is a regular number of people.

And we always hear and we always listened when our -- when our partners were asking us to deescalate the situation and we did it this time, although, there were no reasons for a big worry, because we didn't need any kind of wars --

CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: OK.

VUCIC: Any kinds of clashes with NATO.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: And be sure to tune in later today. CNN's Christiane Amanpour will be talking to the president of Kosovo. That is at 1:00 p.m. in New York, 6:00 p.m. in London.

Just ahead, Donald Trump did not have to appear at his fourth trial on Monday, and yet, chose to be there.

We will explain what happened in fourth.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[02:31:04]

CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. Donald Trump was back in court Monday, this time by choice, in a civil fraud case that cuts to the heart of his brand as a successful billionaire. Unlike Trump's criminal indictments, this trial brings no risk of jail time, but it could cost him some prized possessions. The New York Attorney General is seeking $250 million in penalties and wants to prevent the Trump Organization from operating in the state.

That's after a judge ruled last month that Trump and his sons committed fraud by inflating their real estate assets. Outside the courtroom, Trump called the trial a scam and a sham. He insisted that his financial statements were, quote, "Phenomenal." He called the attorney general, Letitia James, corrupt and a racist, and had these harsh words for Judge Arthur Engoron.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DONALD TRUMP, FORMER US PRESIDENT: This is a judge that should be disbarred. This is a judge that should be out of office. This is a judge that some people say could be charged criminally for what he's doing. He's interfering with an election, and it's a disgrace.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: Those claims of election interference are well worn, with Trump insisting many of those who oppose him in a court of law are trying to keep him out of office. CNN's Brynn Gingrass brings us more of the color from inside and utside the courtroom.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN US NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, pretty eventful day for the first day of the civil fraud trial, brought against Donald Trump, his adult sons and the Trump Organization by New York Attorney General Letitia James. Opening statements kicked off today with Trump inside the courtroom. And in those opening statements, the state's attorneys laid out what its case will be for the next three months or so that this trial is expected to last.

Talking about how Trump and his sons and Trump or conspired to commit persistent fraud and saying in doing so, banks took on hidden risks. They talked about how they'll be calling several witnesses to the stand, including Trump's sons, and possibly Trump. And even Michael Cohen, who is of course his testimony to congress is the whole reason why this case even got started in the first place.

When it was the defense's turn to bring its opening statements they talked about how Trump made billions off of just good business deals in real estate. Essentially saying that he did everything by the book and pointing out the fact that no fraud was committed. And that there are really no victims in this case. And some, they say, there is no illegality, there was no fraud, and there are no victims. Now as far as what was happening inside that courtroom, Letitia James was there inside sitting, as well as Eric Trump and Donald Trump was seated with his defense attorneys. Donald Trump did not acknowledge Letitia James several times as he walked past her, except for maybe one time. Eric Trump actually went over to Letitia James and shook her hand twice throughout the duration of the day.

But Trump did take the time outside of the courtroom to lash out not only at Letitia James but about this trial in general, and about the judge who will be deciding really the balls and the stripes of this entire case. So it'll be interesting to see if he shows up later, on Tuesday for court. But as of now it is unclear if he will show up, although he is eager to testify again in a trial that is expected to last three months. I'm Brynn Gingras, CNN, New York.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CHURCH: The World Health Organization has recommended a new vaccine to prevent malaria in children. R21/Matrix-M is the second such vaccine approved by the agency in the last two years.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TEDROS ADHANOM GHEBREYESUS, DIRECTOR-GENERAL, WORKS HEALTH ORGANISATION: It's in areas with seasonal transmission. It reduces symptomatic cases of malaria by 75 percent in the 12 months following a three dose series of the vaccine.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

[02:35:04]

CHURCH: The vaccine will be rolled out in parts of Africa early next year. Malaria is spread by mosquitoes and kills nearly half a million children in Africa every year. Still to come, petitioners fight for a say in Tokyo's urban development. Why they're pushing the government to reconsider a project in a rare green space in the heart of the city. Back in just a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHURCH: Activists in Japan have collected hundreds of thousands of signatures to try to stop a project to redevelop a historic park and sports facilities in the middle of Tokyo. Some of the park's trees are nearly a century old, part of a rare green space in one of the world's largest urban areas. CNN's Will Ripley has our report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WILL RIPLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A fight for the future of a much loved Tokyo park. Protesters urging officials, respect history, stop the Jingu Gaien Urban Redevelopment Project.

HIROSHI ONE, PROTESTER AND TOKYO RESIDENT (through translator): The Jingu Gaien is ours and our kids' cultural inheritance. It's not fair to push through a redevelopment plan without properly consulting citizens.

RIPLEY (voice-over): Protesters fear heritage ginkgo trees will be endangered by a new stadium. Hundreds of others axed, making way for tall buildings of concrete and steel. This, they say, is not just a fight over one part, it's a fight for the future of Japan's green spaces, the right to have a say.

Built with public donations in 1926, the Jingu Gaien is seen as a people's park. Home to a famous rugby venue, a historic baseball stadium where Babe Ruth once played. It's center piece, an avenue of one hundred year old ginkgo trees.

MIU SAKAMOTO, MUSICIAN: It is like a sanctuary to those living here.

RIPLEY (voice-over): That peace already broken. Small scale construction underway on a billion dollar redevelopment plan approved by the Tokyo government, led by real estate firm Mitsui Fudosan. Developers say that they will update aging sports facilities, promote more open green space, protect the avenue of ginkgo trees.

Tokyo says it wants to create a world-class sports hub, like the billion dollar Tokyo 2020 Olympic stadium. Roughly 1500 trees were cut down to make way for that controversial Olympics project. Many campaigners don't trust the developers promise to keep the ginkgo avenue safe.

MIKIKO ISHIKAWA, DIRECTOR, ICOMOS JAPAN: Imagine if developers said they'd build the sky scrapers in New York Central Park, and a stadium next to the American Elms at East 97th street. No New Yorker would accept that.

[02:40:04]

RIPLEY (voice-over): More than two hundred thousand people have signed a petition calling for review of the plan. Just this month, the international council on monuments and sights issued a heritage alert, warning of irreversible destruction of cultural heritage. About three thousand trees at risk, it says.

Responding to the anger, the Tokyo government again requested developers summit a concrete plan before cutting down any trees. The plan, to ensure the survival of as many trees as possible. Many fear the older ginkgoes may not make it. In an email to CNN, Mitsui Fudosan said it will preserve the environment and work with arborists to ensure the care of each tree.

Pressure is mounting on Tokyo as more people rise up. Just before he died, famed musician Ryuichi Sakamoto wrote a letter to Tokyo's governor, urging people to speak out for the Earth, a fight his daughter now carries on.

SAKAMOTO: I think it's a last letter from him, saying that keep on thinking and keep on raising your voice.

RIPLEY (voice-over): As calls to reconsider Jingu Gaien's future grow louder, for now these heritage ginkgo trees stand tall. Silent guardians of the ecosystem facing an uncertain future. Will Ripley, CNN, Tokyo.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CHURCH: New Zealand is hoping to draw more overseas visitors to the country with the help of one of its favorite sons. That of course is oscar winning actor and director Taika Waititi starring in a promotional film for New Zealand's new tourism campaign. The country took a hit economically during the Coronavirus pandemic, closing its borders to visitors and enacting strict lockdown rules.

It officially shed the last of its Covid era restrictions in August, and although tourists are returning, this July, the number of visitors was 16 percent lower than in July 2019. New Zealand hopes Waititi's star power will help bring them back in. And thanks so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. WORLD SPORT is next then I'll be back in 15 minutes with more CNN NEWSROOM. Do stick around.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[02:45:00]

(WORLD SPORT)

[03:00:00]

Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020231003eja3000dx


Row between Fico’s Smer and European socialists deepens over pro-Russian stance
Benjamin Fox, Eleonora Vasques, Oliver Noyan
679 字
2023 年 10 月 4 日 16:38 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Slovak social democrat party of Robert Fico appears to be edging towards the margins of the pan-European socialist family as the row over his party’s pro-Russian stance continues to escalate.

In last weekend’s general elections, Fico’s Smer party topped the polls by a seven-point margin over the second party, the liberal Progressive Slovakia, leaving Fico in pole position to become prime minister for the third time.

Fico has repeatedly courted controversy with his close relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin despite the Kremlin’s war against Ukraine and the EU’s sanctions against Moscow.

Smer’s election victory poses a major problem for the Party of European Socialists – and the Socialists and Democrats (S&D) group in the European Parliament – of which Smer is a member.

Socialist lawmakers have been vocal, together with other pro-European political groups, in supporting Ukraine against the invasion Russia started in February 2022.

The two SMER MEPs, Monika Beňová and Katarína Roth Neveďalová, have tended to vote with the S&D group line on many of the most important files for the centre-left group, such as the Green Deal, rule of law, and Artificial Intelligence.

However, in November 2022, Beňová, along with the Bulgarian Socialist delegation, which is also pro-Russia, voted against a Parliament resolution which described Vladimir Putin’s regime as a sponsor of terrorism.

Roth Neveďalová did not vote on the resolution.

Contacted for comment by Euractiv, a PES spokesperson referred to a weekend statement to the Swedish press by party president Stefan Löfven, in which the former Swedish prime minister warned that if Fico’s rhetoric continues and is implemented by his government, he will launch the formal process to exclude Smer from the PES.

Fico has refused to back down in the face of Löfven’s comments.

Smer was suspended from the PES for ten months in 2006 after forming a coalition government with the far-right Slovak National Party. Smer was later threatened with suspension in 2015 over Fico’s anti-migrant rhetoric.

During a press conference on Tuesday (3 October), S&D Vice-President Pedro Marques told journalists that the group in the European Parliament will follow the lead of the PES on the membership question.

“We are concerned about the rhetoric of Robert Fico. We addressed this problem with the PES. If this rhetoric continues and they turn into actions, a sanction process might start and expulsion is a possibility,” Marques told journalists.

For her part, Katarina Barley a vice-president of the European Parliament with the S&D, told Euractiv she was “watching very closely what concrete policies Robert Fico and his party will pursue”.

“Our determined support for Ukraine and our position on Russia are unalterable. Should Fico and SMER contradict the fundamental values of the S&D Group and the SPE, we will react unitedly and decisively. European values and political integrity always come first for us,” she added.

The row is potentially embarrassing for the centre-left group which has sought to position itself as a consistently pro-European force.

European People’s Party (EPP) leader Manfred Weber told the press on Tuesday that the “Socialist party has to clarify their position on this issue” and that Fico “sounds like Orban,” a reference to the nationalist Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.

Orbán’s Fidesz party left the centre-right EPP in March 2021. The decision was eventually taken by the party itself after years of internal discussions and disputes within the EPP about whether to expel Fidesz from its ranks.

“EPP’s parties are standing for the pro-European approach, for the rule of law based approach, to fight against corruption, and for the strong support for Ukraine,” Weber said.

Green group co-leader Philippe Lamberts also chimed in, telling reporters in Strasbourg that “even in the S&D, there are populists and they are reluctant to kick them out”.

[Edited by Zoran Radosavljevic]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020231004eja40008f


Slovak PM reiterates no support for new anti-Russian sanctions if they harm country
350 字
2023 年 10 月 27 日 17:27 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Newly installed Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico reiterated that before the EU adopts new anti-Russian sanctions, he will demand that Brussels provides analysis of their impact on Slovakia.

"I announced that we [Slovakia] will not agree with military assistance to Ukraine and at the same time we will demand an in-depth analysis of each sanction [against the Russian Federation] regarding how it can harm Slovakia," Fico told reporters in Brussels.

According to him, Bratislava will not support the next EU anti-Russian sanctions in the field of nuclear energy.

"There are proposals that this [12th sanctions] package could include aspects related to the nuclear sector. I can’t imagine that we would vote for their adoption," Fico said,

Bratislava’s negative position regarding possible anti-Russian sanctions in the field of nuclear energy is associated with two nuclear power plants operating in Slovakia, built with the assistance of the USSR.

According to the Slovak Prime Minister, sanctions against Russia are not effective, but he will not necessarily reject all of them. His position will depend solely on the national interests of Slovakia. Earlier he said that all anti-Russian sanctions have a negative impact on his country.

At the EU summit in Brussels the Slovak Prime Minister also confirmed Bratislava’s position on focusing on the supply of humanitarian aid to Ukraine and participation in its post-war reconstruction.

"This assistance will continue. If they [Ukrainians and refugees from Ukraine] need equipment [for heating in the coming] winter, for example, heating systems, we will look for options [to provide them]," he said.

"But I very clearly said that when it comes to talking about [the possibility to supply the Ukrainian armed forces with] weapons from warehouses [located in units] of the Slovak army, the new government [of Slovakia] will not continue the policy [of the previous authorities of the republic]. I have a different opinion [from the position of other politicians]. <…> I think that this conflict does not have a military solution," Fico noted.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020231027ejar001ba


EU struggles to deliver on military aid promised Ukraine (2).
726 字
2023 年 11 月 17 日 12:03 GMT
ANSA - English Media Service
ANSAEN
英文
© ANSA.
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell remains optimistic

(ANSA) - ROME, NOV 17 - European willingness to assist Ukraine remains evident. Although plans to spend more money to help Ukraine defend itself against Russia are coming under increasing pressure, the willingness in Europe to support Ukraine and its people - whether through financial, military or other forms of assistance - has not entirely wavered. Regardless of its position on state-level military aid, Slovakia's foreign minister also underlined that Slovakia wants to help Ukrainians in the upcoming winter with humanitarian aid and mine clearing. Slovakia also supports Ukraine's aspirations to become a member of the EU. A new European F-16 training centre was inaugurated in Romania this week, which will primarily train Romanian pilots but will also be open to allied and partner countries, including Ukraine. Under the agreed terms that allowed the centre to open, Romania will provide a military base for training, while the Netherlands will supply the aircraft and the US defence company Lockheed Martin will provide instructors and maintenance. Ukraine is expected to start receiving F-16s from some of its Western allies in 2024. According to Bulgarian Defence Minister Todor Tagarev , Bulgaria guarantees its own security by helping Ukraine. Helping Ukraine even minimally is worth it, the minister stressed, following the Bulgarian Parliament's decision on September 27 to approve a resolution on the provision of additional military aid to Ukraine. On Tuesday in Brussels, Tagarev told Bulgarian journalists that the war in Ukraine will likely continue and the EU member states will need to replenish their military inventories, which means that the Bulgarian industry will be receiving orders. North Macedonia's Defence Minister Slavjanka Petrovska said in a TV appearance on November 6 that a new request for additional military aid had arrived from Ukraine, and was currently being reviewed by the General Staff of the Army. "If we get a positive opinion, I will immediately forward the request to the Government, and it will be adopted," Petrovska said, adding that the request from Ukraine is classified. Albania has joined the EU's sanction package against Russia as part of the reaction to the war in Ukraine. Albania is also part of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group (UDCG), represented by its Minister of Defence, Niko Peleshi. UDCG is a US-led initiative that brings together allies and partners from around the world to discuss cooperation and the security challenges arising from the Russian aggression in Ukraine. Borrell and Breton: industry capacity is there. With regard to the promised ammunition, EU Internal Market Commissioner Thierry Breton assured the bloc's defence ministers on Tuesday that Brussels' plans to encourage arms companies have prepared them to produce the agreed quantity. He also made clear that he believes the bloc would be able to meet the target of being able to produce "more than a million" shells by next spring. "The industry has the capacity to produce a million projectiles a year, but that does not mean that we will have a million ready by March," Josep Borrell commented, adding that "it is up to the member states to pass on the orders for such production". In any case, he stated that the "political goal" of reaching one million is "ambitious" but that "we continue to strive for it". Borrell said a major issue was that European defence firms were exporting about 40 percent of production to other countries. He called on member states to prioritise ammunition exports to Ukraine in order to provide more ammunition more quickly. The question, according to Borrell, is whether the countries, which are the ones that ultimately have to send the material to Kyiv, will organise themselves to order the production in time. The foreign policy chief said countries have placed joint orders for 180,000 more of the 155-millimetre shells, but that figure is due only by the end of next year. Borrell said he would brief European leaders on his work with Ukrainian authorities to push for long-term security guarantees and that he would present a new proposal for security commitments and military aid for Ukraine in December. (The content of this article is based on news by agencies participating in the enr, in this case AFP, Agerpres, ATA, BTA, dpa, EFE, MIA, TASR). (ANSA).

Agenzia Nazionale Stampa Associata

文件 ANSAEN0020231117ejbh001gt


BBCM: Highlights from Czech Newspapers, News Websites 17 Nov 23
845 字
2023 年 11 月 17 日 13:20 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The foreign minister explaining a recent freeze of Russian assets, the Slovak president's visit, and assessment of Czech efforts against disinformation are among the main stories in Czech newspapers and websites on 16 November.

Minister says Russian state property freeze is a defensive move

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky discussed in an interview with liberal daily Denik N the recent Czech decision to freeze Russian state-owned real estate in the Czech Republic. He said the move was intended to prevent "Russia from going on our territory against the interests as described in the sanction regime", specifying that "the money that is for example being made on renting the properties could be abused against Ukraine". Lipavsky further specified for Denik N that "the embassy building and the Russian school are not included in this and they have not been frozen. Dozens of other properties are rented out by Russia, and the Czech Republic does not want these properties and the rent to be used for financing the war. It is a defensive move". Lipavsky said he would ask the EU to put the Russian agency Goszagransobstvennost, managing the properties, on the EU sanction list, though he admitted in the interview that he would first "see what the approach of the EU administration and the reaction of the member states will be". (Denik N, 16 November)

In a different interview, given to iRozhlas, the news website of publicly owned radio Cesky Rozhlas, Lipavsky responded to the Kremlin's threat that Moscow would freeze Czech property in Russia in retaliation. He dismissed it as "media statements", saying that "at this point, we made a move that is completely in alignment with the Czech law". The minister told iRozhlas that "the Czech Republic is not waging an offensive war against anyone, so I do not know what justification the Russians might have to take any measures". On top of this, Lipavsky argued, "There is only insignificant property [in Russia], definitely not anything that should make us nervous." Lipavsky stressed in the interview that "the issue is not simple, and we worked on it for a long time", explaining why the Russian property freeze came almost two years after Russia had started its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. "In the end, it was also a political decision, and I am very glad that the government coalition stood in favour of it," the top diplomat told iRozhlas. (iRozhlas, 16 November)

Slovak president visits Prague, defends Slovak foreign policy

Slovak President Zuzana Caputova arrived in Prague on 16 November to commemorate the 17 November Velvet Revolution anniversary, centre-right news website Lidovky.cz reports. Caputova arrived at the Prague Castle, the official residence of the Czech president, where she and her Czech counterpart Petr Pavel held a meeting, according to the report. Later, Caputova laid flowers at the 17 November Memorial and met representatives of the Slovak diaspora in the Czech Republic. According to the report, Caputova emphasised during the visit that the Czech and Slovak relationship is "exceptionally close, and I believe that it will remain such in the future". (Lidovky.cz, 16 November)

Caputova commented on the newly-elected Slovak government's Ukraine policy in an interview with news outlet Seznam Zpravy. She said she was "very happy that for now what we can see in actual political moves in essence represents to a large extent the continuity of the Slovak approach". However, the president noted that this was "with the exception of one element, and that is donating lethal military aid. But as far as the remaining military aid is concerned, it should continue, similarly business aid or humanitarian aid should continue to operate without problems". In Caputova's view, "The [campaign] rhetoric was far stronger than the actual political moves which have been unambiguously pro-European, pro-alliance. In this sense, the EU unity should not be disrupted." (Seznam Zpravy, 16 November)

State agency warns of insufficient capacities to combat disinformation

"The systemic, personnel and technical capacities of the Czech Republic to face serious disinformation waves are overall insufficient", the Centre against Hybrid Threats (CHH) under the Czech interior ministry has said in an analytical paper quoted by news outlet Aktualne.cz. The CHH noted that disinformation campaigns in the Czech Republic often defend Russian and Chinese interests and are accompanied by coordinated information leaks, public defamation of the authorities, systemic incitement of hatred against portions of the population and the polarization of society. The CHH admitted that the Czech Republic has no official policy to combat disinformation, the news outlet points out, quoting the CHH as saying that "when it comes to the possibilities of identifying a serious disinformation wave, the current systemic information environment monitoring and analytical capacities of the individual ministries are, in the context of the absence of a conceptual approach to the problem, limited to predominantly classical press monitoring and therefore do not include disinformation sources and topics". (Aktualne.cz, 16 November)

Source: BBC Monitoring 17 Nov 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020231117ejbh0025t


*S&PGR Affirms Ratings On Slovakia At 'A+/A-1; Outlook Stable
4061 字
2023 年 11 月 17 日 21:13 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2023, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
17 Nov 2023 16:13 ET Press Release: S&PGR Affirms Ratings On Slovakia At 'A+/A-1; Outlook Stable

 
 
The following is a press release from S&P Global Ratings: 
 
OVERVIEW 
     -- Slovakia's new government faces the challenge of reining in budget 
deficits over the next two to three years while facing headwinds to economic 
growth. 
     -- Inflation is on a downward path, external and government leverage is 
moderate, and the economy is still resilient to the effects of the 
Russia-Ukraine war. 
     -- We affirmed our 'A+/A-1' long- and short-term sovereign credit ratings 
on Slovakia. 
     -- The outlook is stable. 
 
RATING ACTION 
On Nov. 17, 2023, S&P Global Ratings affirmed its 'A+/A-1' long- and 
short-term foreign and local currency sovereign credit ratings on Slovakia. 
The outlook is stable. 
 
OUTLOOK 
The stable outlook reflects our expectation that Slovakia's fiscal deficits 
will narrow over the next two to three years and it will preserve prudent 
fiscal policy. It also reflects our view that the economy will remain 
resilient in the near term despite challenges to the medium-term growth 
outlook. 
 
Downside scenario 
We could lower our ratings if, contrary to our current forecast, fiscal 
deficits remain elevated over the next two to three years, or if we observe 
more unorthodox policymaking or challenges to the country's institutions. We 
could also lower the ratings if we consider that Slovakia's medium-term growth 
outlook is substantially hampered by challenges to its auto sector. 
 
Upside scenario 
We could raise the ratings if fiscal balances improve significantly more 
strongly than we expect and the economy proves adaptable to emerging 
structural challenges, including through effective policymaking. 
 
RATIONALE 
Slovakia's new government, in office since October, is facing an imminent 
challenge to consolidate public finances amid a weaker macroeconomic 
environment. Political uncertainty over the past year has contributed to 
ballooning deficits, which could persist without consolidation measures. 
However, we assume that Slovakia will maintain sustainable public finances and 
we project a gradual decline in deficits, which would keep government debt at 
moderate levels. Slovakia's economy has been resilient to the immediate 
fallout of the Russia-Ukraine war although high energy prices have caused 
inflation to remain elevated for longer. 
 
To weather medium-term challenges to its economic model, for example, in the 
auto sector, Slovakia will need efficient and proactive policymaking as well 
as strong institutions. Our ratings reflect that we do not expect a reversal 
in this area through government policies. 
 
Our ratings also factor Slovakia's moderate external leverage, low 
balance-of-payment risks, and low government funding costs, as well as the 
effective monetary policy implemented by the European Central Bank (ECB). 
 
Institutional and economic profile: Slower growth increases the new 
government's challenges 
     -- We project Slovakia's small, concentrated, and export-oriented economy 
will expand by 1.3% in 2023 and 2.0% in 2024. 
     -- Inflation is moderating, which will support domestic demand in 2024, 
whereas external demand has weakened. 
     -- The new Direction - Social Democracy (Smer-SD)-led government, formed 
in October, faces the challenges of consolidating public finances and 
balancing its policy priorities with more subdued economic prospects. 
 
We project Slovakia's economy will expand by 1.3% in 2023 and 2.0% in 2024. We 
expect that exports will continue to expand in 2023-2024, albeit more 
moderately given lower demand in Slovakia's key export markets, namely 
Germany. At the same time, receding inflation and robust wage growth will 
support a gradual recovery in private consumption from next year. EU fund 
inflows, especially from the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF), will 
underpin our forecast of modest investment growth over our forecast horizon 
through 2026. 
 
This economic backdrop underpins some of the pressing challenges the newly 
formed government is facing and that will shape Slovakia's economic 
performance in the coming two-to-three years; the government will aim to 
balance consolidation needs with macroeconomic and socioeconomic 
considerations. Moreover, to preserve EU fund inflows, the new government will 
have to maintain good working relations with the European Commission. 
 
We think that the government will aim to gradually consolidate public 
finances, while avoiding stifling domestic demand. In turn, we believe the 
government will likely implement various social policies in line with its 
electoral promises and consolidation will fall more on the revenue side. The 
choice of revenue-raising measures might also hinge on the pace of 
disinflation; we project inflation will slow to 10.9% in 2023 and 5.5% in 
2024. 
 
In late 2022, Slovakia implemented fiscal support measures to constrain energy 
costs for households and companies. Since price caps are essentially adjusted 
with a one-year lag, these measures will add to the persistence of inflation 
in the coming year by creating a delay in the pass-through of price increases. 
At the same time, we anticipate that government measures will continue to 
mitigate upward price adjustments--for example, with the cap on electricity 
prices in place--and smoothen its trajectory. 
 
Our expectation of moderately accelerating growth in 2024-2025 reflects our 
projection that external demand from Slovakia's key eurozone export markets 
will recover. We project eurozone GDP growth of 0.9% in 2024 and 1.5% in 2025, 
up from just 0.6% in 2023. 
 
While a eurozone recovery adds upside potential to Slovakia's export growth, 
this largely hinges on the performance of its auto sector. In per capita 
terms, Slovakia is the largest car producer globally. Major private investment 
is concentrated in the auto sector, which accounts for about 30% of exports. 
In turn, exports total over 90% of GDP in the small and very open economy. 
 
Slovakia's economic model could be called into question if supply chains are 
reshaped in the wake of the transition toward electric vehicles. At the same 
time, Slovakia could benefit if fragmentation of supply chains along 
geographical and geopolitical lines causes European companies to favor 
more-local suppliers. We note that Slovakia already produces a significant 
number of electric vehicles and manufacturers have continued to invest in the 
Slovak auto sector. If these investments continue in the longer term, even as 
the EU transitions away from the combustion engine, this would be a key 
positive signal for Slovakia's auto industry. 
 
We also think that EU funds will support investment growth in 2023 and 
thereafter. This is the last year for disbursements under the 2014-2020 
Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) period. Next year, RRF funds will 
mitigate the gap in disbursements between programming periods but will 
comprise less than 1% of GDP. We think that the government will aim to 
preserve EU fund inflows, which could provide an anchor for effective 
policymaking and Slovak-EU relations. Funds from the RRF are linked to 
specific milestones, unlike the regular MFF funds. As a result, RRF funds can 
support reform momentum. 
 
Slovakia's labor market remains tight. We project an unemployment rate of 6.1% 
for 2023 before gradually decreasing to 5.2% by 2026. This is based on 
moderate employment growth, helped by the addition of foreign workers, which 
offsets the projected decline in the working age population. The tight labor 
market is driving substantial nominal wage growth, of almost 10% in 2023, both 
in the private and public sectors. We expect wages will continue to increase, 
and positive real wage growth from next year will underpin private 
consumption. Wages are projected to outpace productivity growth, which could 
increase competitiveness concerns toward the end of our forecast horizon to 
2026. 
 
Structural challenges for Slovakia's economic model call for prudent 
policymaking. These concern not only the auto transition, but also structural 
reform needs, for example, in education. In addition, Slovakia is one of the 
most energy-intense countries in Europe, measured as energy consumption per 
unit of GDP. Despite the relatively quick reduction in Russian gas imports, we 
consider that Slovakia still has a sizable dependency on Russian oil and gas. 
This may make it more vulnerable to higher prices and flow disruptions, which 
could lead to slower economic growth. Last year, there were shutdowns at major 
energy-intense factories and we could see the return of energy supply 
constraints or renewed commodity price swings amid current geopolitical 
tensions. 
 
At the same time, we note that Slovakia's economy has weathered the direct 
impact of the Russia-Ukraine war better than initially feared. The country 
made significant strides to diversify its gas sources and has concluded 
supplier contracts with several European companies. This year's launch of a 
new unit at the Mochovce nuclear power plant makes Slovakia close to 
self-sufficient for electricity. 
 
The new government under Prime Minister Robert Fico has drawn international 
attention for its stance against military aid to Ukraine. Slovakia had 
previously supplied parts of its own arsenal to Ukraine but we think that the 
policy shift against military aid does not signify a disruption in relations 
with the West, and broader alignment on sanction policies could prevail. 
Despite more confrontational rhetoric, preserving relations with EU partners 
is of mutual interest. 
 
The government comprises three parties, Smer-SD, which combines a firm 
sovereigntist stance with social democrat orientation, Voice - Social 
Democracy (Hlas-SD), a social-democrat splinter of Smer, and the far-right 
Slovak National Party (SNS). Mr. Fico's political experience as prime minister 
between 2006-2010 and 2012-2018 will contribute to near-term stability of the 
coalition, in our view. However, these periods were accompanied by a 
perception of reduced governance transparency. Steering clear of a 
17 Nov 2023 16:13 ET Press Release: S&PGR Affirms Ratings On Slovakia -2-

backtracking on institutional effectiveness will be a key near-term signpost 
for Slovakia's policy direction, apart from the impending fiscal consolidation 
needs. 
 
Flexibility and performance profile: High fiscal deficits drive debt higher, 
but funding for external and fiscal deficits remains robust 
     -- We project that Slovakia's fiscal deficit will be a high 5.5% of GDP 
in 2023 and expect revenue-raising measures will lead to a gradual decrease 
over 2024-2026. 
     -- Despite the expected gradual consolidation, net general government 
debt will rise to over 50% of GDP by 2026. 
     -- External and government debt is moderate and Slovakia benefits from 
the eurozone's deep capital markets and low financing costs. 
 
We project Slovakia's general government deficit will widen to 5.5% of GDP in 
2023, before narrowing to 4.5% in 2024. In 2023, EU refunds for Slovakia's 
energy support schemes supported a better-than-budgeted outcome, whereas 
social and health care expenditure were higher than initially budgeted. In our 
projection for 2024, we assume that the government will take measures to 
reduce the deficit in the near term. That said, under various scenarios that 
exclude fiscal consolidation measures--for example, those prepared by the 
Council for Budget Responsibility--deficits would stay above 6% in the coming 
years. We understand that the authorities perceive such a scenario as 
untenable. In recent statements, fiscal consolidation has been acknowledged as 
a necessity by key government members. However, we think there is still 
uncertainty about the pace of consolidation, which may be clarified in the new 
government's 2024 budget. In our view, more concrete proposals will bring more 
visibility on fiscal policy direction in late 2023 or early 2024. 
 
We anticipate that consolidation will lean more heavily on the revenue side. 
This is based on statements from government members, for example, on the 
possible introduction of a bank profit tax and the government's stated 
priorities. These imply that social policies remain a key concern, for 
example, introducing a full 13th pension payment or a potential subsidy to 
mortgage borrowers. Depending on the timing of supplies, the budgetary impact 
of the planned substantial military investment might be spread out over a 
longer time horizon than currently expected. 
 
As the consolidation will likely be implemented early in the government's 
term, we think that the deficit will gradually decrease to below 4% of GDP by 
2026. EU fiscal rules, which become binding again next year, and national 
fiscal rules, namely expenditure ceilings implying a 0.5-percentage-points 
(pps) of GDP minimum annual structural consolidation, will provide an anchor 
for medium-term consolidation as well. 
 
Our current fiscal projections imply that debt rises gradually over 2023-2026. 
We forecast that Slovakia's net general government debt will increase to 52% 
of GDP by 2026 from 48% in 2023, which is still moderate in an international 
comparison. The treasury maintains a sizable cash buffer, at about 10% of GDP, 
which could be deployed to partially finance fiscal deficits. 
 
Slovakia benefits from the eurozone's extensive debt markets and the 
credibility of the ECB's monetary policy. Slovakia's active debt management 
and the ECB's accommodative monetary policy have helped reduce its interest 
burden. We project that interest expenditure will gradually increase to 3.6% 
of general government revenue by 2026 from 2.9% in 2023 and will average about 
3.3% over this period. Maintaining the favorable funding profile, a key Slovak 
credit strength, will also likely underpin efforts to ensure fiscal 
sustainability. 
 
Slovakia continues to benefit from a solid fiscal framework, which contributed 
to low deficits before 2020, when external shocks hit. Its national fiscal 
rules set expenditure ceilings and sanctions that get gradually stricter when 
debt exceeds certain thresholds. At the same time, Slovakia faces long-term 
pressure on its public finances from aging that have consistently been 
assessed as among the highest in Europe. A pension reform implemented in 2023 
linked the retirement age to life expectancy. We consider this an important 
step that should ensure long-term sustainability in the pension system, given 
Slovakia's demographic pressures. At the same time, the government included a 
parental bonus and early retirement benefit in its pension reform. Currently, 
there is still reduced visibility on other potential changes to the pension 
system in the upcoming legislative term. 
 
Slovakia continues to post a strong external position with modest external 
debt and limited balance-of-payment risks. We project that the current account 
deficit will narrow significantly this year, after last year's terms-of-trade 
shock. While we expect net exports to increase and terms of trade to improve, 
we still think that the slow recovery in global demand, and an increase in 
investment-fueled imports will keep the current account in a modest deficit, 
averaging 2% of GDP over 2023-2026. A significant inflow of EU funds in 
2023-2025 will boost imports for the related investments but also bolster 
Slovakia's capital account. 
 
We expect Slovakia's external leverage to remain moderate. Narrow net external 
debt is set to decrease slightly to 42.5% of current account receipts (CARs) 
in 2026, from 45.2% in 2022, based on an increase in CARs and gradually 
tightening current account deficits. Gross external financing needs will 
average about 140% of CARs over the same period. Despite wage growth of almost 
10%, we anticipate that Slovakia will preserve its external cost 
competitiveness. That said, if inflation remains consistently above that of 
peers, competitiveness could come under pressure. 
 
We consider contingent liabilities from the banking sector to be limited. The 
sector is predominantly foreign-owned and appears well-capitalized, relative 
to regulatory requirements. Nonperforming loans were 1.6% of total loans and 
the Tier 1 ratio was 17.4% at mid-year 2023. 
 
Rising interest rates and high inflation are slowing growth in mortgage 
lending and loan growth to nonfinancial corporations remains sluggish. Housing 
prices have continued their downward trend for the past three quarters, 
following a strong rise in recent years. Slovakia's household debt to GDP was 
about 50% in 2022. Although this is still modest compared with more-developed 
economies, it is among the highest across Central and Eastern Europe. High 
household debt, combined with higher financing costs, is set to burden 
household finances and could depress consumption. However, we believe the 
banking sector is relatively well positioned to absorb potential losses. 
 
KEY STATISTICS 
 
RELATED CRITERIA 
 
     -- General Criteria: Environmental, Social, And Governance Principles In 
Credit Ratings, Oct. 10, 2021 
     -- Criteria | Governments | Sovereigns: Sovereign Rating Methodology, 
Dec. 18, 2017 
     -- General Criteria: Methodology For Linking Long-Term And Short-Term 
Ratings, April 7, 2017 
     -- General Criteria: Principles Of Credit Ratings, Feb. 16, 2011 
     -- General Criteria: Methodology: Criteria For Determining Transfer And 
Convertibility Assessments, May 18, 2009 
 
RELATED RESEARCH 
     -- Sovereign Ratings History, Nov. 15, 2023 
     -- Sovereign Ratings List, Nov. 15, 2023 
     -- Sovereign Ratings Score Snapshot, Nov. 7, 2023 
     -- Global Sovereign Rating Trends: Third-Quarter 2023, Oct. 16, 2023 
     -- Sovereign Risk Indicators, Oct. 9, 2023. An interactive version is 
also available at "http://www.spratings.com/sri[http://www.spratings.com/sri]". 
     -- Slovakia's Elections: New Government, Old Challenges, Oct. 4, 2023 
     -- Economic Outlook Eurozone Q4 2023: Slower Growth, Faster Tightening, 
Sept. 25, 2023 
     -- Default, Transition, and Recovery: 2022 Annual Global Sovereign 
Default And Rating Transition Study, April 28, 2023 
     -- Sovereign Debt 2023: Developed Europe Government Borrowing Estimated 
At $1.7 Trillion, March 9, 2023 
 
In accordance with our relevant policies and procedures, the Rating Committee 
was composed of analysts that are qualified to vote in the committee, with 
sufficient experience to convey the appropriate level of knowledge and 
understanding of the methodology applicable (see 'Related Criteria And 
Research'). At the onset of the committee, the chair confirmed that the 
information provided to the Rating Committee by the primary analyst had been 
distributed in a timely manner and was sufficient for Committee members to 
make an informed decision. 
 
After the primary analyst gave opening remarks and explained the 
recommendation, the Committee discussed key rating factors and critical issues 
in accordance with the relevant criteria. Qualitative and quantitative risk 
factors were considered and discussed, looking at track-record and forecasts. 
 
The committee's assessment of the key rating factors is reflected in the 
Ratings Score Snapshot above. 
 
The chair ensured every voting member was given the opportunity to articulate 
his/her opinion. The chair or designee reviewed the draft report to ensure 
consistency with the Committee decision. The views and the decision of the 
rating committee are summarized in the above rationale and outlook. The 
weighting of all rating factors is described in the methodology used in this 
rating action (see 'Related Criteria And Research'). 
 
Certain terms used in this report, particularly certain adjectives used to 
express our view on rating relevant factors, have specific meanings ascribed 
to them in our criteria, and should therefore be read in conjunction with such 
criteria. Please see Ratings Criteria at www.spglobal.com/ratings[http://www.spglobal.com/ratings] for further 
information. A description of each of S&P Global Ratings' rating categories is 
contained in "S&P Global Ratings Definitions" at 
04352. Complete ratings information is available to RatingsDirect subscribers 
17 Nov 2023 16:13 ET Press Release: S&PGR Affirms Ratings On Slovakia -3-

at www.capitaliq.com[http://www.capitaliq.com]. All ratings affected by this rating action can be found 
on S&P Global Ratings' public website at www.spglobal.com/ratings[http://www.spglobal.com/ratings]. 
Alternatively, call S&P Global Ratings' Global Client Support line (44) 
20-7176-7176. 
 
Primary Credit Analyst: Ludwig Heinz, Frankfurt +  49 693 399 9246; 
                        ludwig.heinz@spglobal.com 
Secondary Contact: Gabriel Forss, Stockholm +  46 84 40 5933; 
                   gabriel.forss@spglobal.com 
Research Contributor: Hari Krishna Thirupraana, CRISIL Global Analytical Center, an S&P affiliate 
Additional Contact: Sovereign and IPF EMEA; 
                    SOVIPF@spglobal.com 
 
 
The article with statistical information is available in full 
at www.spglobal.com[http://www.spglobal.com]. Registration is free. To access the full article, 
select "Ratings Actions" in the left navigation under Ratings Resources, 
then choose the Press Releases tab. 
 
 
 
No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, 
model, software, or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof 
(Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced, or distributed in 
any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without 
the prior written permission of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC or 
its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any 
unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party providers, as well 
as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees, or agents (collectively 
S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or 
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors 
or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the 
results obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or 
maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an "as 
is" basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, 
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR 
DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, OR THAT THE 
CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event 
shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, 
exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs, 
expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or 
lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in 
connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of 
such damages. 
 
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the 
Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not 
statements of fact. S&P's opinions, analyses, and rating acknowledgment 
decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell 
any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the 
suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content 
following publication in any form or format.  The Content should not be relied 
on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment, and experience of the 
user, its management, employees, advisors, and/or clients when making 
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or 
an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained 
information from sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an 
audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of 
any information it receives. 
 
To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to acknowledge 
in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain 
regulatory purposes, S&P reserves the right to assign, withdraw, or suspend 
such acknowledgement at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties 
disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the assignment, withdrawal, or 
suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage 
alleged to have been suffered on account thereof. 
 
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in 
order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective 
activities. As a result, certain business units of S&P may have information 
that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established 
policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic 
information received in connection with each analytical process. 
 
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally 
from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the 
right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and 
analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.spglobal.com/ratings[http://www.spglobal.com/ratings] (free 
of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com[http://www.ratingsdirect.com] (subscription), and may be distributed 
through other means, including via S&P publications and third-party 
redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is available at 
www.spglobal.com/usratingsfees[http://www.spglobal.com/usratingsfees]. 
 
Any Passwords/user IDs issued by S&P to users are single user-dedicated and 
may ONLY be used by the individual to whom they have been assigned. 
No sharing of passwords/user IDs and no simultaneous access via the same 
password/user ID is permitted. To reprint, translate, or use the data or 
information other than as provided herein, contact Client Services, 
55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041; (1) 212-438-7280 or by e-mail to: 
research_request@spglobal.com. 
 
Copyright (c) 2023 by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC. 
All rights reserved. 
 
 
(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 17, 2023 16:13 ET (21:13 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020231117ejbh002lb


BBCM: Highlights from Czech Newspapers, News Websites 28 Nov 23
942 字
2023 年 11 月 28 日 12:43 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The Czech approach to the Russian nuclear threat, Russian gas imports and praise for Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico are among the topics in Czech newspapers and websites on 27-28 November. 

Nuclear conflict with Russia possible

Centre-right news website iDnes.cz reacts to Chief of the General Staff Karel Rehka's comment that the military is preparing for the eventuality of a conflict with a nuclear power. iDnes.cz observes that his words "petrified a large portion of society and politicians", and goes on to argue that "it might have been enough for now to have such a debate behind closed doors, among those who are participating in the military's preparations". The newspaper asks, "What is the state doing to protect its citizens, should a potential conflict that the military is preparing for, god forbid, break out?" The iDnes.cz opinion piece concludes by saying that "those to whom we are trying to send the message that we are preparing to fight them, see the discrepancy between words and reality". According to the news website, "there is deep mutual distrust between the West and Russia. This will be a hurdle to finding a new security order in Europe, which will mean a fundamental increase in military spending". Therefore, the newspaper wonders if "we want to spend the coming decades balancing on the verge of the destruction of humankind, or there will be statesmen who, despite all that has happened, will find ways to avoid it". (iDnes.cz, 27 November)

More than half of gas imported recently comes from Russia

Russian gas imported to the Czech Republic since the start of October has accounted for tens of per cent of all gas imports, iDnes.cz reports. Days after Trade and Industry Minister Jozef Sikela claimed that only 1.2% of imported gas originated in Russia, economist Lukas Kovanda has told iDnes.cz that "approximately in the last two months… it has been tens of per cents". What is more, the report quotes Kovanda as saying that "on Friday (24 November), the import of Russian gas represented 54.4% of the overall imported volume. On Saturday, it was 55.1%". The data comes from Austrian gas firm Gas Connect Austria, the report notes. Kovanda explained for iDnes.cz that "when the import of Russian gas averages out, not based approximately on last two months but on the entire year, then the share of Russian gas understandably comes out in single per cents". According to the report, whenever there is not enough demand for gas in countries that regularly import Russian gas, for example Hungary, Austria and Slovakia, the excess is sold on the free market, and thus can make its way into the Czech Republic. (iDnes.cz, 27 November)

News outlet Seznam Zpravy argues that "since this is not any structural measure but only a temporary business initiative… this import has no impact on our energy security". The Seznam Zpravy piece reasons that "none of these businesses is entering a contractual relationship with [Russian gas company] Gazprom or commits to a long-term offtake in any way that could expose the Czech market to the risk of gas shortage". Moreover, the news outlet highlights that "it is not an illegal activity, the import of Russian gas was not put on any of the EU sanction lists", seeing it rather as "morally controversial". At the same time, the opinion argues that businesses "must be aware of where the gas they buy comes from". (Seznam Zpravy, 28 November)

Fico is praised for teaching 'childish' Czech leaders a lesson

iDnes.cz, reacting to the cold reception of Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico in Prague by Czech leaders, argues that President Petr Pavel and lower house speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova "childishly met 'the monster' without media presence, so that there is, accidentally, no photo of them shaking hands". The author assumes that "they had probably secretly hoped that Fico would be outnumbered, bypassed and run out into opposition in Slovakia", pointing out that "none of our top officials had the decency two months ago to congratulate him on the election victory". iDnes.cz dismisses the suggestions that Slovak President Zuzana Caputova had to persuade her Czech counterpart to receive Fico, interpreting it as "a rumour controlled by the Castle [the Czech president's office], to give the president an alibi". The paper praises Fico, opining that "nonetheless, the arrogant monster Fico had risen above these small hits… After all, four premierships show, in contrast with political amateurism and embarrassing activism". The newspaper concludes by saying that "Fico taught his Czech colleagues a lesson that politics is not made with a heart but with a brain. And then he walked away with his head held high". (iDnes.cz, 27 November)

Firm suspected of exporting sanctioned goods receives state loan

Liberal daily Denik N reports that Labara company, which is investigated over allegedly exporting dual-use machines to Russia, received a state-guaranteed loan worth "tens of millions" of korunas (10m korunas equals approximately 450,000 dollars) as compensation for the Russian sanctions impacting its business. The daily claims that Labara had received the loan before it sold the two sanctioned machines via a third party in Turkey. Labara told Denik N that it "categorically denies violating customs rules in any way". Nevertheless, the newspaper points out that although the current rules do not restrict exports to Turkey in any way, Turkey is often used as a transit country. (Denik N, 27 November) 

Source: BBC Monitoring 28 Nov 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020231128ejbs0018h


Slovakia This Week - December 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 12 月 15 日, 14253 字, (英文)
Raiffeisenbank projects Czech economy to grow by 1.7% in 2024Analysts of the Czech branch of Raiffeisenbank expect the Czech economy to grow by 1.7% next year while this year they expect an overall drop of 0.5%.

Slovak Prime Minister: The sanction exception, allowing Slovakia to use oil from Russia, has been preserved
95 字
2023 年 12 月 18 日
WPS: Defense & Security
DEFSEC
英文
© 2023 WPS Russian Media Monitoring Agency. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS. The exception allowing Slovakia to use Russian oil has been retained in the new package of European Union sanctions against Russia, Prime Minister Robert Fico said on Friday.

"We have approved a package (of sanctions - RIA Novosti.), which contains an extremely important exception for us, this is an exception for the use of Russian oil for production," Fico told reporters following the summit of the leaders of the EU member states.

RIA Novosti, December 16, 2023, 18:21

WPS USA, Inc.

文件 DEFSEC0020231218ejci00011


Slovak Prime Minister: The sanction exception, allowing Slovakia to use oil from Russia, has been preserved
407 字
2023 年 12 月 18 日
WPS: What the Papers Say
WHTPAP
英文
(c) 2023 WPS Russian Media Monitoring Agency. All rights reserved.
BRUSSELS. The exception allowing Slovakia to use Russian oil has been retained in the new package of European Union sanctions against Russia, Prime Minister Robert Fico said on Friday.

"We have approved a package (of sanctions - RIA Novosti.), which contains an extremely important exception for us, this is an exception for the use of Russian oil for production," Fico told reporters following the summit of the leaders of the EU member states.

In early December, the Foreign Minister of the Republic, Juraj Blanar, stated that Slovakia was trying to extend the exclusion of Russian oil from the European Union's sanctions list for a year. He noted that the abolition of this exception would have a serious impact on the republic, creating inflationary pressure.

At the end of November, the speaker of the Slovak Parliament, Peter Pellegrini, noted the need to extend the exclusion of Russian oil from the EU sanctions list. According to him, the absence of this exception could lead to the destabilization of oil products supplies throughout the region. Pellegrini said that the Slovnaft oil refinery has already invested in technologies that should allow it to switch to using another type of oil, but the company still needs time.

Earlier, the head of the Slovak government, Robert Fico, answering a question about the situation with the temporary exclusion for Slovakia from the EU sanctions list for the supply of Russian petroleum products, which are still urgently needed for the activities of the Bratislava Slovnaft oil refinery, said that the Czech Republic is ready to support this request of his country and that information in this regard from the European Commission indicates the possibility of a positive decision.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has previously stated that the policy of containing and weakening Russia is a long-term strategy of the West, and sanctions have dealt a serious blow to the entire global economy. According to him, the main goal of the West is to worsen the lives of millions of people. Moscow has repeatedly stated that Russia will solve all the problems that the West creates for it. Moscow noted that the West does not have the courage to admit the failure of sanctions against the Russian Federation. There have been opinions in Western countries themselves that anti-Russian sanctions are ineffective.

RIA Novosti, December 16, 2023, 18:21

WPS USA, Inc.

文件 WHTPAP0020231218ejci0000e


Slovakia This Week - January 5, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 1 月 5 日, 6096 字, (英文)
Slovak budget deficit increases by 70% y/y in 2023Slovakia’s budget deficit soared by €7.68bn in 2023 or by 69.6% year on year, the country’s Ministry of Finance reported on January 2.

Slavs may unite to ‘raze’ Western Europe – EU lawmaker — RT World News
primanews, 2024 年 1 月 16 日 18:29 GMT, 702 字, (英文)
Sending more aid to Ukraine will only get people killed and lead to revolt, an MEP from Slovakia has warnedAn EU lawmaker who founded the Slovak PATRIOT party has warned his European Parliament colleagues that continuing to send weapons to ...

Ukrainian And Slovak PMs Agree To 'New Pragmatism' To Aid Strained Relations
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 2024 年 1 月 24 日 14:05 GMT, 5564 字, (英文)

Slovak Press Today
3621 字
2024 年 1 月 30 日 07:00 GMT
SITA Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
SITA
英文
© 2024 SITA - Slovenska Tlacova Agentura
BRATISLAVA, January 30 (SITA) -

PROCUREMENT: A new post of Vice-President for Strategic Investments is to be created at the Public Procurement Office (UVO). This is foreseen in the draft of a new bill from the Transport Ministry on extraordinary measures for strategic investments, which has already undergone interdepartmental comments. The office has reservations about it, fearing restrictions on its independence or divergent decision-making. "The most fundamental problem is the possible political influence on the control institution. The Public Procurement Office is supposed to be an independent and impartial central body under the Public Procurement Act," said Jozef Gabik, director of the office's communications and protocol department. The law directly states: "The office shall act impartially and independently in the exercise of its powers. State authorities, local authorities, other public authorities, and other persons must not influence the office in the exercise of its powers." In the context of this provision, the authority considers the intention to dismiss its deputy chairs without giving a reason to be extremely problematic. The office expects that the transfer of authority from the chair to the new strategic deputy chair will make it impossible for the chair of the office to unify, to correct the decision-making practice that arises in the first instance in several departments of the office. trend.sk

WORK: A group of MPs from the opposition Slovakia party have presented a draft amendment to the Labor Code introducing a 4-day working week. In line with the amendment, eligible employees would have an option to ask their employer to work only 4 days per week while still fulfilling the same total number of hours as a standard 5-day workweek. " The bill allows individuals in applicable professions to allocate more time to their loved ones and personal pursuits without compromising the total weekly work hours relative to their coworkers, thus eliminating the need for taking time off," the bill states. "If the nature of the work allows, the employer shall, following the employee's request and after consultation with the employee, adjust the established weekly working time, providing the employee with an extra day of uninterrupted rest," the submitters added. The MPs would like the amendment to enter into force on July 1, 2024. index.sme.sk

ECONOMY: The Slovak Economic Association and the Club of Economic Analysts view with great concern the recent dismissals of four directors of analytical units at the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Interior, and the Ministry of Investment, Regional Development and Informatization, which were made without justification. They warn that public decisions are at risk, the Slovak Economic Association informs. “Well-functioning analytical units are essential for good public decision-making. It is therefore important that changes in their leadership do not follow the electoral cycle, but are properly justified. At the same time, it is crucial that the vacant positions are filled through transparent selection procedures with the participation of the expert public," the Slovak Economic Association stressed. ekonomika.pravda.sk

PROCUREMENT: Contracting authorities would not have to be concerned about fines for potential infringement if the respective penalties for dodging public procurement rules were reduced profoundly, says the Public Procurement Office regarding the prepared changes in public procurement. “Only the practice will show if this change will lead to more violations of the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, the office will probably not be able to collect the prescribed fine volume of 1 million euros a year,” communications and protocol director at the office, Jozef Gabik, said. The office responded to the question about the impact of the considered sanction reduction from 5% of the contract value to 0.1 to 3%. The maximum fine could be 50,000 euros or half of that in the case of fast payment. The office reminded that the changes are still in the form of a working material, and the draft bill has not yet been submitted to the interdepartmental comment procedure. “The office is fully cooperating on the preparation of this document, but the sponsor is the Ministry of Investments, Regional Development and Informatization (MIRRI). Before it sends the final version to the interdepartmental comment procedure, it is too early to assess it,” he said. The office provided the ministry with expert observations and pointed out potential risks. sita.sk

ECONOMY: Slovakia managed to dodge recession thanks to a strong increase in fixed investments and net exports. Analysts of Allianz Trade point out that Slovakia’s GDP will go up modestly this year and inflation will drop slowly, albeit it will remain high. The economic development of our country will be driven mainly by domestic demand and investments in the following period. “Slovakia’s strong reliance on exports, especially in the automotive industry, causes the above-average cyclical growth fluctuations. High dependence on global supply chains and energy imports led to the Slovak economy being very vulnerable amid the global context of persisting supply shortfalls and considerably higher energy prices,” says Peter Mucina, director of Allianz Trade in Slovakia. In the past four years, Slovakia faced a number of challenges. The COVID-19 crisis hit the country harshly in 2020 owing to its dependence on exports. A substantial recovery came in the following year, but owing to the war in Ukraine, sanctions slapped on Russia, and rising energy prices, Slovakia’s economic activity slowed down considerably again in 2022. Real GDP growth dropped 1% in 2023 as a result of falling consumption and public expenditures. Allianz Trade experts expect the real GDP growth at some 1.5% in 2024 and 2.5% in 2025. Domestic demand and household consumption will be the major driving force. “Consumption growth is to revive thanks to rising real incomes and shrinking pressures on energy prices. The recovery will also be helped by investment growth driven by EU structural funds, recovery programs, and government investments,” Mucina added. Despite a slight downturn, inflation in Slovakia will remain relatively high this year. It is assumed that inflationary pressures will persist partially, in particular due to the expected end of measures protecting households from high gas prices. Moreover, the tense labor market situation creates room for a strong wage increase and prices in the sector of services. Hence, the average annual inflation is expected to reach 5% in 2024 and 3% in 2025. sita.sk

CONSTRUCTION: The situation in the construction sector is critical due to a shortage of qualified craftspeople. Secondary vocational schools specialized in construction win new students every year, but most of them opt for a job in a different industry after they complete their education. The Association of Construction Entrepreneurs of Slovakia stated on Monday that their share in Slovakia is up to 90%, while Austria has completely ended training of some professions, for instance, bricklayers. If the Slovak construction industry wants to keep up with the neighboring countries, substantial systemic measures are needed, according to the association. “The current status quo is really alarming. We are facing the threat that the Slovak construction sector, as we know it, will vanish completely within a few years,” President of the association Pavol Kovacik warned. In his words, the sector must be transformed toward industrial construction production, including effective use of big data, automation and robotics in production processes, pre-fabrication, and other current modern trends. “Otherwise, not only won’t we be able to keep up with other countries, but we won’t be able to motivate young people to pursue training in these areas,” he stated. The association points out that the transformation of the sector will help it face the biggest challenges, such as urbanization, changing requirements of consumers, and building decarbonization. The amendment of the EU directive on energy performance of buildings namely requires that all new buildings be zero-emission from 2030. All existing buildings in the EU must be revamped in line with zero-emission norms within six years. ekonomika.pravda.sk

ENERGY: Households taking heat from big heating companies should not pay more for the supply this year than they did in 2023. Given the decline in natural gas prices, heat prices for 2024, submitted to the Regulatory Office for Network Industries (URSO), are lower on average compared to the prices for 2023. However, in most cases they did not drop below the capped heat price, i.e. the 2022 price increased by 20 euros per MWh with VAT. Under a government regulation, heat suppliers can charge a price only up to this limit. Suppliers can claim a subsidy covering the difference between the price approved for this year by URSO and the maximum price pursuant to the regulation. “Most consumers will not see a change in the heat price for 2024 compared to the heat price in 2023. Heating costs of consumers will be approximately the same as last year unless they profoundly change their need for warm comfort, or unless an extremely strong and long winter occurs,” says Stanislav Janis, chair of the Board of Directors at the Slovak Heat Producers’ Association. Nevertheless, some suppliers will charge higher prices than they did in 2023. At stake are companies, whose multiannual contracts with low natural gas price expired at the end of last year. Thanks to favorable conditions for the gas purchase, they had lower heat prices in 2023 compared to the capped price as their price increase in 2023 did not exceed 20 euros per MWh versus the heat price in 2022. energia.sk

ENERGY: Wholesale prices of electricity and natural gas stick to relatively low levels despite the peaking winter heating season. Gas costs less than 30 euros per MWh, and the price of electricity stays around 85 euros per MWh. According to data published by the Prague-based Power Exchange Central Europe (PXE), electricity for Slovakia with delivery next year was sold at 86 euros per MWh on Friday, Jan. 26, while its price stood at 89 euros per MWh on Wednesday and 85 euros per MWh on Monday. In early November 2023, electricity prices were approaching 130 euros per MWh. Wholesale gas prices changed only slightly. Natural gas to be delivered in 2025 was sold at roughly 28 euros per MWh at the Title Transfer Facility (TTF) Virtual Trading Point in the Netherlands at the end of last week. On the first days of last week, its price was 27 euros per MWh. In early November 2023, gas cost even 50 euros per MWh. sita.sk

POLL: Had a general election taken place in January, it would have been won by SMER-SD on 24.5 percent of the votes, a poll carried out by Ipsos agency on behalf of daily Dennik N has shown. Smer would have been followed by Progressive Slovakia (PS) on 20.6 percent and VOICE-SD on 15.4 percent of the votes. Other parties to make it into Parliament would have included Freedom and Solidarity (SaS) on 6.6 percent, the Christian Democratic Movement (KDH) on 6.6 percent, the Slovakia party on 5.3 percent and Republic on 5.1 percent. Meanwhile, the Slovak National Party (SNS), which is currently in Parliament, would have failed to reach the necessary 5-percent threshold on 4.3 percent of the votes. The poll was carried out on a sample of 1,022 respondents between January 22 and January 25. trend.sk

ELECTIONS: Deputy Speaker of Parliament and Slovak National Party (SNS) leader Andrej Danko officially announced his candidacy for the president on Monday. At the same time, he called on Prime Minister Robert Fico (SMER-SD) to also run. Danko does not want to VOICE-SD chair Peter Pellegrini to be the president. "The president must have certain values and, to me, Pellegrini does not represent them. If Fico were president, Pellegrini could get our support for prime minister," he said at a press conference. He considers himself a better candidate for president than Pellegrini because, in his words, "he has never betrayed". According to him, Fico is making a mistake when he trusts a traitor. "Robert, don't you understand that you are repeating the same political mistake? I was taught in the village where I grew up that whoever betrays once, betrays you again," he sent a message to the prime minister. Danko also wants to address SMER-SD voters. "I did not betray Fico, I never fought with him," he stressed. He added that he may not have the best PR, but unlike Pellegrini, he has a heart and has never betrayed Slovakia. trend.sk

ELECTIONS: In the event of his success in the presidential elections, Peter Pellegrini, the Speaker of Parliament and the Voice-SD party, is determined to do everything to ensure the stability of the governing coalition. He added that he is aware of his responsibility to fulfil the electoral promises made by the VOICE-SD party. According to Pellegrini, Slovakia needs a president serves the interests of the people, rather than being solely aligned with either the coalition or the opposition. In his view, the head of state should not function as a mere counterweight or a handmaiden of a particular government. He stressed the need for peace. "If someone pursues his political goal in disputes and quarrels, he has every right to do so and it is ultimately the people who will decide what resonates with them," he pointed out. teraz.sk

COURTS: President of the Constitutional Court Ivan Fiacan met with Justice minister Boris Susko (SMER-SD). As per Tomas Senaj of the press and information department at the Constitutional Court’s Office, the meeting took place at the branch office of the court in Bratislava. They tackled the specification of the powers of the Constitutional Court to streamline its decision-making activities, in line with its position within the judiciary branch. sita.sk

FINANCE: We are at an important crossroads as the inflation is slowing down. However, patience is required before the adoption of key decisions on the timing of interest rate reduction, said Governor of the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) Peter Kazimir, following monetary-policy talks of the ECB Governing Council. “Our decisions here will be guided by incoming economic data as well as by updated future inflation development that will be presented in March. The peak of monetary policy tightening is over,” Kazimir stated. The next step will be the interest rate reduction and this step is within reach, Kazimir believes. “I am convinced that the exact timing, whether in April or June, is secondary given the impact of this decision,” he noted. The NBS governor finds the latter date to be more likely. “Once it is justified, we won’t hesitate to act. We are not lagging behind, it is rather that financial market have somehow been in a hurry since December and getting ahead of events,” he stated. In his opinion, it would be risky to act rashly based on short-term surprises without a clear medium-term development. banky.sk

FINANCE: The year 2024 will probably be recorded as the year of the end of interest rate increases. It is expected that central bankers in Europe, as well as in the United States, will sooner or later start to lower them. Recently, there has been increasing talk that mortgage interest rates have already peaked in Slovakia. However, the question remains as to when Slovaks will see mortgages becoming cheaper in real terms. "It is true that the ECB has probably already stopped raising interest rates and will probably indeed start cutting rates in the course of 2024. However, this does not necessarily mean that interest rates in Slovakia will also start to fall. The pricing policy of our banks is also strongly influenced by the internal economic situation," said Eva Sablova, FinGO's credit director. The willingness as well as the ability of banks to reduce commercial interest rates may be affected by the critical state of public finances, the recent deterioration of Slovakia's credit rating, or the threat of a rise in bond prices. Other factors are bank taxation and mortgage subsidies. Their impact on public finances and the commercial policy of banks may ultimately have a negative impact on interest rates again. "The current measures of our government may contribute to the fact that we will see lower interest rates in Slovakia later than the rest of the Eurozone," Sablova thinks. banky.sk

POLL: The knowledge of Slovaks about investing is deteriorating. Although the fall is moderate, their investment literacy has declined year-on-year and has fallen below the baseline level of 2021. While women's knowledge is gradually improving, the trend is opposite in the case of men, shows the latest Investment Literacy Index produced by online investment platform Portu, based on data from an Ipsos survey at the end of last year. While in Slovakia the level of the index reached its lowest level to date at 99.1 points after a decline of 1.5 points, in the Czech Republic the trend was the opposite. The Investment Literacy Index in our western neighbors rose to 115.9 points. In Poland, the survey was carried out for the first time, with the level of knowledge of Poles reaching 92.3 points converted to the Slovak basis. "The decline in the Investment Literacy Index in Slovakia can be attributed primarily to the weaker knowledge of the younger generation, as the 18 to 26-year-old category recorded the highest decline in the index compared to 2021. The weaker knowledge may have been mainly due to the deterioration in the quality of teaching during the COVID-19 pandemic. This was also reflected in the international PISA measurement, the results of which, for example, were described by the Minister of Education as a national tragedy," says Michal Mestan, Dean of the Faculty of Economics, Matej Bel University in Banska Bystrica. The level of knowledge of people aged 18 to 26, as expressed by the Index, fell from 101.6 points in 2021 to the current 90.1 points. While in the initial measurement the knowledge of young people was among the above-average, now it is the worst. Clearly, the best performers were older people aged between 54 and 65, who were the only ones to improve year-on-year. "This also shows the problematic level of Slovak primary and secondary education in particular. It fails to compensate sufficiently for the impact of children's poor social status on their knowledge. PISA testing has also shown that students from poor families in Slovakia perform the worst among all OECD countries," adds Marek Malina, an analyst at Portu. banky.sk

HEALTH: The AGEL Kosice-Saca Cardiology Center objects to the politicians' doubts about the fulfillment of the material-technical and personnel criteria. As the facility stated, it considers them to be political hypocrisy or conscious misleading of the public and gambling on the health of patients. The center said that it is a successful example of a top-notch private medical facility that has grown "on a greenfield site" in a short period of time. "Opposition MPs who abuse the system for self-presentation and look for issues that allow them to show off in the media and social media are this time parasitizing on a success story. The story of the employees and patients of the heart center and, by their hypocritical and misguided statements, are making both groups uncomfortable," says AGEL Cardiology Center. It added that while politicians are concerned about voters and preferences, its priority is the patient. Frantisek Sabol, Chairperson of the Board of Directors and CEO of AGEL Cardiology Center, pointed out at the press conference that the facility became a specialized hospital during the time of Ludovit Odor's cabinet, after meeting demanding criteria. He stressed that it received a conditional classification for two years from the current Health Minister, Zuzana Dolinkova (VOICE-SD). "We are conditionally included for two years," Sabol said. He stressed that after two years the center will be inspected and its activity will be compared to other health facilities. The only reservations, back in the time of Minister Michal Palkovic, were that it did not have the main hospital contracted and also that it did not meet the criterion of catchment area. Sabol pointed out that the first objection is now irrelevant, as they signed the necessary contract with the L. Pasteur University Hospital (UNLP) on September 8, 2023. On the second objection, he stated that the center is a partner hospital of the UNLP as well as other facilities. sita.sk

SPAS: The renewal of Spa Sliac will not be stopped even by the change of government and the change of the head of the Economy Ministry. Former minister Richard Sulik took a keen interest in the state spa. During his tenure, an architectural design competition was held for the renovation and development of the facility. The project was also assessed by the Value for Money Unit, according to which its renovation is more profitable than preserving the current state or selling the premises. Incumbent Economy Minister Denisa Sakova appears to be of a similar opinion. She has already visited the spa. According to her, the spa is among the most beautiful ones in Slovakia, and she described it as "a pearl in need of development". "The spa is owned by the Economy Ministry. I saw a really beautiful area here. The spa requires investments, which need to be made in the short term, but especially in the long term. It is a challenge that we will have to address," she posted on a social network. sita.sk

Slovenska Tlacova Agentura (SITA)

文件 SITA000020240130ek1u00001


Slovakia This Week - February 16, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 16 日, 8319 字, (英文)
Slovak inflation eased further to 3.9% in JanuaryConsumer price indices (inflation) in Slovakia increased by 3.9% year on year and by 0.7% month on month.

搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	斯洛伐克
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	153
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 13:23 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate
